Marriage is outdated for two overarching reasons.
First, because I think that marriage is just an outdated institution that suppresses general human nature as with regards to sexuality and human pleasure in life, and secondarily, marriage is outdated because it enforces archaic social norms that ultimately just oppress gender minorities like LGBTQ people, or it oppresses women more broadly as an institution.
So those are the reasons why I think marriage is going to be bad.
But before I get into those reasons, I want to I want to clarify what this is a debate is actually about, because I don't think that this is a debate about whether long term monogamous relationships can be good or can make some people happy.
I think that that's something that is probably true, but I think that when we're talking about marriage, we're much more talking about the actual political, legal, religious institutions that enshrined such a way of life.
And this is very important, because I think that as a result of these legal legal, political and institutions and the like, what this does is it creates this as the predominant way of having to live your life.
So it means that what it does is it creates an environment of less choice, and it necessarily coerces or pressures people into living their life in a certain way.
As a result and as a result of this, this really brings me into my first argument, which is about how this lessens human pleasure as a result of sexual interactions.
And I think this is like an incredibly important thing, because like billions of people like in our world billions of people are going to fall in love, billions of people are going to have relationships, and like tons and billions of people are going to get married.
So, whether or not these people are actually happy with their marriages, happy with their relationships and the like is incredibly important, and I think that that this is clearly not true, there's a reason why divorce rates are at all time highs, there's a reason why infidelity is at an all time high, and there's a reason why increasingly younger and younger people aren't even bothering to get married at all.
It's because what I think that it does is marriage suppresses basic human emotions, and that is whether and that is that you want to oftentimes not just be tied down to one person, you want to have different relationships with different people at different stages of your life.
What you may be interested in in in a partner is going to be very different when you're twenty than when you're thirty or when you're sixty or any other age.
And this is important, because you're going to value different things, you're going to value different ways that you connect to people, because you're in a different point in your life emotionally at these different stages in your life.
Sometimes you're going to value attractiveness more than security, you're going to value maybe like intellect, like there's all different ways in which people value different ways, and these things are never constant because people just change over time.
And this is very important, because the human desire for excitement, the human desire for love, all of these things aren't just things that exist when you're in your twenties, which is when you're supposed to get married in a in like contemporary societies or things like not more like historical societies.
These are things that are experienced throughout human life.
So, I think that being forced down to one partner throughout most of your adult life is definitely going to take away a valuable part of human experience and pleasure and happiness.
But I also think that this is oppressive socially.
I think that it's quite obvious that the institution of marriage, even if we're getting a little bit better about this, albeit with much resistance, is incredibly exclusionary for a lot of gender minorities, people who are gay, people and the like.
It's difficult for them to access the same political protections or legal protections that come as a result of marriage.
But I think that secondarily, marriages has inherently sexist roots.
The root of marriage is this idea of division of labor in that women should you should have marriage, that way men can be the breadwinners of the family unit, and that women should be the ones who are doing the light household work.
And that's really what the point of marriage was, and that's where its religious roots come from.
It was designed to make sure that women would not be able to access a lot of the privileges and benefits that men have, because it would set up society in a way which structurally disadvantages their ability to succeed in the workplace, to succeed in other walks of life, because it creates social expectations that they're going to do a predominance of housework and things like that.
I think that without the institution of marriage, these things become a lot less prevalent.
So, for all those reasons, incredibly proud to propose.