The internet brings more harm than good, because of the harm in which the internet brings to our psychological and physical well-being, and the fact that the degree to which those are harmful is just more important than any possible benefits from the internet, things like convenience or ease of access of information, things which are ultimately replaceable, not in the same way as your physical or psychological well-being.
So let's talk about that, because I think that the physical problems that the internet can cause for you are very obvious.
The internet is in a lot of ways, it's incredibly addictive.
A lot of like research, and also just common sense given on the way is that a lot of like young people act, is that there is a constant feeling of needing to be attached to the internet.
You can be constantly looking up random things on the internet, playing games on the internet, talking to people on the internet, seeing what people talk about on the internet, getting news.
There's all sorts of ways in which the internet just endlessly distracts you, endlessly pulls you in.
And this creates a real problem, because when you're doing that, when you're just sitting on the internet, or doing various things on your computer, you're not really you're not going outside, you're not exercising, you're not engaging with people positively.
And that's important, because I think that that creates a lot of like physical problems for people.
Like obviously there's huge problems of people in america being overweight, a lot of like kids just don't get outside enough or do enough activity, because it's really easy to just sit on you butt and play on a computer all day.
And that's not good, that creates a lot of like health problems, it creates a lot of like economic problems as well.
So other than that thing, there is also a lot of psychological elements of why the internet is problematic.
Because I think that the feeling of needing to be constantly connected to the internet, the feeling of feeling constantly are connected to something creates a lot of feelings of anxiety, a worry of like you have like are you responding to this thing fast enough, now that there is a a constant expectation of -ding.
There is any time like thing pops into your mind, you get distracted, you want to look up something on the internet instead of focusing, it creates like focus problems.
I think that there is like a whole lot of like internal problems that the internet creates in that respect.
And that's very important to note.
So now let's compare this let's compare those harms of the internet to possible benefits of the internet.
Because I think that the primary benefits of the internet are like information access focusing, being able to access like information more easily, or being able to talk to people more easily.
But recognize that a lot of these things aren't necessarily like uniquely necessary for the internet, it's just as easy to use text message to communicating with people, or call someone on the phone.
And it's also fine, like you can get information from books, you can get information from like other resources like that.
So the internet isn't really particularly necessary in a lot of the things that it is used.
And it's important to note that making your life easier, which obviously the internet does, is not something that comes without consequences, and in these cases the consequences are quite severe.
The consequences of physical well-being, and the consequences of psychological well-being.
So for those reasons, I think that the internet does more harm than good.