A global language is not advantageous because a global language necessarily comes at the expense of regional cultures and more individualized and specific dialects and languages and it comes at the expense of, oftentimes, minority cultures or less prominent cultures or indigenous cultures in a whole lot of ways and this is incredibly bad because there's a whole lot of benefits to this diversity.
And additionally, I'm also going to argue that the lack of a global language forces greater engagement with these cultures which ensures the survival of them.
So, first, why is a global language necessarily going to be why is a global language necessarily imperialistic and it necessarily comes at the expense of other cultures?
So, global languages it's not by it's not mere coincidence that global languages have historically been french, latin, greece greek and english.
And the reason this is true is because in each individual time window that they were the global the lingua franca of the world, they had the greatest economic power and military power essentially in the way in which the language existed.
Those are the reasons why those languages gained prominence, that is why english is the global language today, because of the economic power of the united states essentially forces it as a global language on a whole lot of other people.
So, this may be fine, would be fine if you could get the benefits of a global language if it didn't necessarily come with a harm and the harm that it necessarily comes with is other languages existing in other cultures associated with that language having their own individualized cultural identities.
So, why is this trade-off necessarily one that is present?
It has to exist because when you have this like bigger bigger language or a global language that seems advantageous economically to you, people are oftentimes going to be more willing to defer to the ease of only learning one language or engaging in one language.
So, this is why indigenous cultures are seeing a whole lot of their languages dying off when they don't have maybe their own schools or they send people to public schools or things like that.
The reason this is a big problem is because it's much easier to essentially just ignore local cultures and buy into the greater economic power in cultural acceptance and ubiquity that is associated with a global language.
So, that's something that's not good.
So, reason why I think that this is a very present harm is because a whole lot of people get like, obviously, besides the inherent value of having diversity in language, diversity of culture, diversity in the way in which people act and the way in which people think, there's often there is also a very, like, direct harm to the people in these groups because the existence of a language or the existence of a cultural identity can be something that gives more value and enrichment to someone's life, it can be empowering for somebody and this isn't something that we should necessarily undersell because this is a very deeply important thing to the people that are actually in these cultures.
The the language that they have is one of the most important things that they have because it's a true representation of their lifestyles in a lot of ways and language can be a representation of the way in which people think in an entire culture.
Language is very important.
So, why do I think that the absence of a global language necessarily means that these languages are more likely to survive?
Because in addition to you not having to worry about the trade-off, I also think that this necessarily causes more engagement because now the the like, more powerful culture, I guess, or the more, like , more prominent and widespread language so, I guess english in a lot of cases, it necessarily forces english speakers to engage in other other cultures, rather is requiring english speakers to not just rely on the fact that other people are going to know their own language and it forces them to learn chinese and it forces them to learn french or german or spanish because they can't just rely on those things.
It forces them to engage with another culture on their terms, which means rather than essentially coercing other cultures to accept us on our terms and to engage with our culture, it ensures greater understanding and engagement by forcing all cultures to engage with each other and this is ultimately going to be a whole lot better in ensuring, you know, a diversity of cultures can survive and a diversity of cultures are accepted.
So, for all of those reasons, a global language is not advantageous.