International adoption brings more good than harm because first, it gives incredible benefits for the children who are actually being adopted, it gives them a much better life, and second, I think that international adoption is also good for society, I think that it's good for combatting societal problems like overpopulation, and I also think that it leads to better social integration, diversity and nationalistic understanding.
So, before I get into those arguments though, I want to talk about what this means.
Because something bringing more good than harm doesn't mean that it's going to be perfect.
Obviously there are going to be problems like human trafficking, these things exist, and obviously these things are bad.
However, these are still things that I think can be fought with regulation, fought with law enforcement, and I don't think that these are things that are necessarily inherent to international adoption in the same way that the benefits are, and therefore it's something that we should necessarily strive to keep and strive to make better, but not eliminate or lessen.
So let's start by talking about why international adoption is great for the kids that are being adopted.
Because recognize that a lot of these people are coming from objectively bad circumstances.
They are coming from circumstances where there's a lack of hard resources for them, there could be shortages of food, shortages of water, shortages of education or healthcare services, either in the countries as whole, or more specifically problems as a result of underfunding of systems for underfunding of like a domestic support systems for adopted people and foster care systems.
And in addition to that, I also think that there is the psychological elements that come with a lack of the lack of human love in the same way, for the lack of a family, the lack of connections in the same way, that's also important.
And obviously adoption corrects these things, because you usually see these adoptions taking place from like more like infertile western families, or like do-gooders in the west.
And I think that this is good, because these tend to be people who have access to more resources, have access to higher qualities and standards of living, so you're directly making the lives of children better.
There it's hard to argue that that's an incredibly important and good thing to do.
I also think that parents are going to give these children a lot of love.
I think that in a lot of ways it's going to be even a higher order of love.
Because it's going to be a love that you essentially create as a result of being with that person and being a part of this person's life for since their since their birth, even if they weren't naturally born, through all their childhood.
You're still gonna witness all of their like evolutions of life in the same way, you're still going to be a constant guiding force throughout their life.
This is still parenting and love and human connections in an incredibly meaningful way and an incredibly enriching thing.
The next thing that I'm going to talk about is how this is going to help society more broadly though, because I think that this is pretty important too.
First, I think that adoption is just good because, as opposed to natural birth, it does more to help with overpopulation, because you're not you're like not just adding more people to the world.
This is obviously good, because you don't want overpopulation because there's health concerns associated with it, with like higher densities and things like that, there's environmental concerns with humans using too much too many resources and the like.
So all that's important, but there's also the matter of diversity and cultural understanding, and I think one of the biggest things that leads to a lot of conflicts around the world is we tend to put ourselves in boxes and isolate ourselves.
And I think that when you have more immigration, when you have more adoption of international communities and things like this, this means you're more likely going to have a real human face and a real personal connection with the people that may be on the other side of the world even.
And this is a much better way to actually foster intercultural understanding, foster intercultural relations, and all of those things are, besides just being in more enriching for like your life, because you're learning more about the world, I think it's better for like international relations and the like as well.
So for all those reasons, very proud to propose.