We should not ban human cloning because human cloning is an absolutely fantastic way to help a lot of people, and also there's no real reason why human cloning is all that bad or even remotely unethical, contrary to what other people may argue.
So let's start by talking about why human cloning is just good for people.
First and foremost, there's really obvious health benefits to it.
A lot of a lot of the biggest difficulties that we have in certain kinds of like lifesaving treatments, are that a they're a lot of them don't exist and things are unrepairable.
So like if you get nerve damage and you end up handicapped from like the waist down, you're probably never going to be able to walk again and that's gonna be a problem.
Or if you get like permanent heart damage, you can't really just like replace someone's heart very easily in a lot of contexts.
If you get brain damage, that's another thing that can cause you problems.
There's a lot of permanent problems that you can experience.
Cloning offers a unique solution to a lot of these problems in a couple of ways: first and foremost you know with absolute certainty that there's going to be a compatibility with the other person.
One of the biggest problems that we see now, whether it's like one of the biggest problems we see now , even in like more minor treatments like simply like blood transfusions and things like that, there is always a very big need to check to make sure that there's compatibility.
And when you're especially doing like when you're doing like , when you're talking about new organs and things like that, compatibility is a very big issue that you have to take care of.
But when it's literally like like a clone of the organ that already existed, it's like there's going to be like a great deal of certainty that the treatment is gonna be more successful and you're gonna able successfully transition.
So, this is like a huge huge thing.
Because you can literally like help people who are like handicapped, who have brain damage, there's all like there is endless applications to this in the medical world.
So obviously cloning is very good in that regard.
I also think cloning is very good for helping people who could be infertile for one reason or another, or but people who still want to have kids.
And people who want to have a kid that maybe like them.
And that's obviously something that if they want to do they should have the right to do and they should be able to pay for a clone or something like that.
Having a kid is like a pretty important part of a lot of people's lives, it's something that people get a lot of like like pleasure and satisfaction out of, it gives a lot of people meaning your like raising a young person in the same way that you were raised, like there's a reason why a lot of people like to have families.
It gives them like a lot of like close connections and things like that.
Equally the same, some people are infertile, some people can't have kids for one reason or another.
Now cloning could be an answer to that and natural cloning could be a way in which people can experience the joys of like raising a child, of having like family and things like that.
And they can do that in a way that wasn't previously available to them before.
You can make your lives meaningfully better, meaningfully happier, and that's something that I think is pretty important and we should consider.
The final thing that I want to talk about though is why I think that a lot of the like unethical jibber jabber against cloning is kind of just stupid.
For a few reasons: first and foremost I don't really know what exactly they think is like the unique benefit of like a baby has to come out of a woman's vagina verses a baby has a baby can come out of like a test tube or a laboratory or things like that.
Because when you think about it it doesn't really matter where the baby comes from because at the end of the day it's not like the baby that was cloned is any less human than the than the person that he was originally cloned from.
It has the same blood, it has the same brain, it has the same skin, it it has the same like emotions and feelings and consciousness, there's no reason why we shouldn't look at cloned humans as anything other than just human beings.
And just because they came into existence in a different way doesn't mean that we should think any lesser of them, think that they're unethical or other nonsense like that.
So for all those reasons, do not ban cloning.