We should abolish the antisocial behavioral orders not necessarily because things like I guess the american equivalent of restraining orders or no contact orders or things like that.
While these things are obviously important and to some degree have a lot of importance, they need to be used properly and in a more limited fashion.
So what I mean by this is that it's woefully inadequate to place what essentially amount to criminal sanctions on somebody with only civil in with only a civil balance of probabilities or america something like preponderance of the evidence isn't really sufficient to meet this and the reason is that something like an antisocial behavioral order antisocial behavior order constitutes a criminal sanctions in the way in which it limits your freedom.
It limits your freedom of association, in movement, it limits your privacy rights by essentially just broadcasting to everybody that this order was filed against you.
It limits the places that you can go to.
You may not be able to maybe go towards like public squares.
You may be able to have like many things like curfews imposed on you.
You may not be able to talk to like family members or people things like that.
Like these are all ways in which your lifestyle is being significantly limited.
So it's not like a normal civil dispute where the result of the civil dispute is you have to give somebody money or you're getting money or you have to like conceit fault in something or various other things that civil disputes revolve around.
This is essentially criminal sanctions in the same way in that if you're getting put on probation you're being told that you have to do this certain thing at a certain time and place.
You can't do these things like you can't do XYZ things.
In a lot of ways antisocial behavior orders are a lot like that.
So because of that very significant infringement that it puts your life it can affect things like besides as your lifestyle, obviously these can also affect your job.
Employers are going to know that your that you have these kinds of orders against you so you could end up being discriminated as in housing or or housing or employment as a result of this.
So since these are incredibly extreme impacts oftentimes, you need to make sure that you have criminal protections in place and it has to be based on an incredibly high standard and not simply balance of the probabilities and that's how you can end up for example like old people playing gramophones loads too loudly suddenly resulting in what can superficially look like a rather severe violation.
Like having a court order against you is pretty extreme and it's not something that you want to put out lightly.
But when you allow the civil and criminal system to mix in this incredibly harmful way the result is that you get things that just simply aren't going to have fair or just impacts on a large group of people.
So abolish antisocial behavior orders and replace them with more criminally grounded and higher standard warrants or orders instead.
For all those reasons, abolish them.