I think socialism brings more harm than good.
First on a principled level, socialism is unjust and is therefore oppressive when it is instituted, and secondarily I think that socialism doesn't really work all that well anyway, on account of a lot of practical consequences, as opposed to better systems of like economic and social organization.
So let's start by talking about principled objections to socialism.
I think that there's a couple of them: first and foremost, socialism inherently overrides property rights, which I think are very like very dearly important.
It's important to know that people get their property first and foremost usually by very legitimate means of putting their work into something.
It's like the result of like labor that goes into something, the craft that the put into something, and that labor is meaningful because like it's your effort it's your it could be like, maybe it's like your ideas for some kind of book, maybe it's like your research for a patent, all of these things are ultimately as a result of the labor that you put into it and they wouldn't exist, and any benefits that come from them would not exist without the effort and ingenuity that you put into it individually.
But secondarily I also think that property is in a lot of ways just like an extension of yourself and it's an extension of your identity.
So, if at any time, if like, if you don't feel a sense of ownership, say, over your computer, or a sense of ownership over the place that you live, I think there's like a good deal of identity, a good deal of like feeling of like economic security and a good feeling of like accomplishment that are associated with a lot of the, with like having possession of property.
And I think that these things are incredibly important for tangible success but also important for internal feelings like success and accomplishment and those aren't things that we should underestimate.
I additionally think that like as an additional principled objection, I think that socialism is bad because it necessarily results in imposed values on other people.
So what do I mean by this?
Socialist societies tend to take other people's money and use it for other thing.
Like you take someone's money and you use it to like have like more like big healthcare system or some other kind of like socialized system, like food or whatever, whatever kind of socialized system that exists.
Here's the problem: what this does is overrides individual preferences that people may have on how they actually wanna spend their money and this is very important because different people are going to want to spend their money in different ways.
Different people may not care as much about the longevity of their life compared to like the quality of their life.
They may be more willing to not spend as much money on healthcare, which they would be forced to in a socialist system on their taxes, they may prefer to spend that money on a nicer car if that makes them happy.
They may be better off spending that money on investing in their children's education, they may be better off investing that money and just like a nice vacation that they've always wanted to take.
There's no correct way to live a life and socialism attempts to override this by saying that there is one way in which we have to live a life and that this is the way in which these things have to work.
And I think that's like an inherent degradation of the like individuality of human life, which is bad.
So, all those principled objections are enough for socialism to be bad but socialism is also bad because it doesn't work.
So, I think that like capitalism generally results in one, more money accumulated by more people, and secondarily it results in like more innovation.
So these things are good because when more people are making more money, they're able to like improve their qualities of their lives, but also a innovation focused drive also means that like quality of life goes up.
So like what are like concrete ways which these things look like?
So, things like like the green like thing you can look at something like a green revolution in farming because of like like, big corporations getting involved in these things like that and they can lead to like genetically modified foods that save billions of lives possibly, by preventing starvation.
You can see that things like like factories in a lot of parts of the world do increase like the wealth in those areas.
It's not a perfect system, you probably want more regulation, but it was certainly better than before where there was almost no money and no opportunities for economic growth or infrastructure investment in areas.
All of these things do help and this is why global poverty has been plummeting and capitalism does work.
So for all those reasons socialism does more harm than good