Banning the sale of violent video games to minors is an absolutely ridiculous idea.
And it's ridiculous because if you wanna actually end violence with things like guns, then you should ban guns, not video games.
That's how you actually solve the problem.
So I wanna start by talking about this absolutely nonsensical causality between between violence in video games and violence in real life.
So the first thing to note is that it just doesn't make any sense.
If you ask just about, like, any twenty year old like almost all guys in their twenties or early thirties or a lot of kids today, almost all of them played games like call of duty or grand theft auto or similar games that involve some degree of violence and shooting, and you don't see millions and millions of people who played these games ultimately becoming violent in the streets thinking things like beating up a hooker on the street is something that's acceptable to do in real society.
It's because people are a lot smarter than you give them credit for and they're able to make a separation between the fantasy that they see in a video game and the reality that they see when they're actually driving a car down the street.
The idea that sometimes people emulate crimes of video games are obviously, first and foremost, like based on isolated instances that can't really be separated from anything else.
You can see violence in a movie and people may try to re-enact it.
You can see violence in other kinds of walks of life, and oftentimes either just a facade that society uses to blame the actual real to deflect from the real an underlying problems.
And these are namely, first and foremost, that people often have sometimes people have poor mental health, and we don't have the adequate services in place to help people with poor mental health, and we don't have a lot of support in place often times, and we much rather blame them that help them.
And secondarily we have things like widespread access to guns and the like, that make crime a lot more accessible and easy to do.
But the next thing I want to talk about in that minors should have the right to play the video games that they wanna play video games.
It's absolutely ridiculous.
Like, especially if they have the money to buy them on their cells, but if their parents wanna but if their parents don't mind then like this is absolutely certainly ridiculous, and that people should be able to decide the way in which they have fun and enjoy things.
You wouldn't tell a minor that they have to play basketball but they can't play football, because they're maybe more balance associate, or you have to play tennis but you can't play basketball, or you can't watch tv shows that how more violence in them.
Like these these kinds of things are absolutely ridiculous because people should be allowed walk but they're interested in, especially in a modern day where you can get all kinds of information on the internet, where it's literally impossible to effectively regulate the lives of minors in the way that people falsely think is necessary.
It's ridiculous.
People can live their lives the way they wanna live even if they're younger.
They're mature enough to be able to play a violent video game, enjoy it if they want to do, and not of any problems with that.
But the final thing that I wanna talk about is that this is absolutely unenforceable.
And this is unenforceable for a few reasons: first and foremost, because most parents just won't care at all.
So if the idea is that you wanna end the causal link between violence in real life and violence in video games, most parents just don't care about their kids playing violent video games.
Like, I certainly know I wouldn't.
My parents didn't care, the millions of millions of kids who play call of call of duty or grand theft auto, their parents didn't care either.
And I don't know why they would start to care suddenly now that there's some amorphous ban in place.
But also, kids are still gonna want these games.
Kids will ask their older brothers and sisters to get them for them, older friends, they can get them on internets, where ID checks are maybe not as common or things like that, they can lie about their age, there's all kinds of ways in which you can get these things in other avenues.
So for those reasons it's ridiculous to ban violent video the sale of violent video games to minors.