Covenant marriage brings more good than harm, because it strengthens the bonds and institutions of marriage himself and it makes them a whole lot more meaningful, and second, it's also better for children, it's better for the health of the family as a whole, which I think is very important.
So, let's start by talking about strengthening the institution of marriage.
Because I think it's important to recognize that we don't necessarily think that marriage is for everyone, especially in like a modern day society.
It's not everyone's not everyone wants to be tied down, not everyone should be tied down in marriage.
So I think that when you make marriage more binding, more difficult to actually get out of, it makes people more unwilling to opt into marriage in the first place.
So, that's like the first way in which you directly decrease rates of divorce and decrease disillusions of a family unit and all of the harms that can be associated with, which I'm going to talk about later.
And I think that it's fine, not everyone needs to get married, but the people who do get married should take that should take that marriage, take that on a whole lot more seriously than they do.
So, after that, why do I think that this is necessarily going to lead to a strengthening of the bonds of marriage, and why do I think that's good.
So, obviously, having divorce be a much more difficult option is going to make it a lot more difficult to you you're stuck with the person because of this.
So, that means you're necessarily going to see more of an emphasis on things like counseling, like marital counseling, you're going to see more of an emphasis on problem solving, and like a conflict resolution, as opposed to conflict.
And all of those things are good, because I think that that means that you're going to be more likely to stay with the person.
And that also means that the institution of marriage is a strong thing themselves.
I think that from an emotional standpoint, this can be very powerful, because while marriage may not be for all people, I think that for some people, marriage can be quite quite quite good.
And it's quite good because it gives you the ability to like essentially put like the ultimate faith and the ultimate trust in another person.
It's the ultimate feeling of connection and closeness with another person, which on a basic emotional level is very important.
Like pretty much like any human you ask does like want to feel connected to other people, does strive for like that kind of an intimacy, and marriage gives you that opportunity, and the stronger those marriage bonds are, the stronger that that sense of intimacy and closeness is going to feel.
You're not going to be fighting with the person, you're not gonna feel like you're going to need to keep secrets from the person, all those things, so I think that's going to make your marriage better.
But second and more importantly, I think that this strengthens the institutions associated with marriage, like the family and the health for children themselves.
And why do I think that that's very important?
Because divorce sucks for children.
Divorce can, for children, can have a lot of like very bad emotional outcomes, especially if if it's a messy divorce, where their parents are fighting a lot, where they're forced not to see one parent a whole lot of the times, where it can be very stressful to have to frequently travel and move all of your stuff every other week to be with the other parent, even if they are close enough to stay with them.
Like so all of those things are bad, it makes you feel less emotionally stable in like the household name that you're growing up in, you're going to feel like less willing to talk to your parents, you're going to feel like your family is a lot more damaged and it's not gonna feel like as like open of a space, you're maybe you're goona be more likely to feel like isolated or away from it.
You know what, all of these things are possible, all of these things happen to children, and all of those things are very very bad and not things that you want to incentivize.
So, for all those reasons, covenant marriage brings more good than harm.