Recall elections are beneficial, because they give the people accountability over their elected officials, and I don't think that anything is more important in a democratic society than that.
So, to start, I want to talk about a some context of what we actually think recall elections are going to focus on.
And I think that there is something that should definitely exist as a power of the people, but not something that I think that people should be able to use limitlessly, also obviously being able to like recall your political officer every single time they try to do some kind of policy that some people didn't like, what I think be unreasonable.
So I think that there needs to be this needs to be something that is limited to maybe like once per the entire time that someone is in office, and should only be used in extreme circumstances.
But that said, they might be extreme circumstances, but I think that they can be necessary circumstances.
Because I don't think that first and foremost, we should look at politicians as people who always act in a good, but I think that's very obvious.
Oftentimes politics lie about things that they're going to do in order to get into office in the first place, so they're in office in with certain expectations of what they're going to do for people, and they don't meet those expectations, in which case I think it's quite fair for people to to want to remove their the politician.
But also sometimes politicians just do things that are borderline criminal, or like corrupt, and like like examples of like quid pro quo things, like when you get paid off to do something, or use nepotism in order to like give advantages, or you try to enrich yourself with like corporate deals that you use to govern and to take advantage of, all kinds of ways in which it could be really bad.
Those are all things that I would think are worthy of a recall, worthy of someone not being worthy of holding that office.
And I think that that last part is key, because the office that you hold as a politician is not something that you have any kind of right to, and it's not something that is yours, you have no like it is it does not belong to you.
It belongs to the people, and that person's position in that office is a privilege.
And that's important to note, because this means that I don't think that it's all that unreasonable of an expectation to give the people his power then.
The final thing that I want to do is I want to compare this to other possible mechanisms of accountability, because I think that a recall election is just the best way to accomplish this specifically as a mechanism.
Recognize that oftentimes with recall elections, it's incredibly difficult to with sorry, with impeachment, it's incredibly difficult to get those things passed through.
There's oftentimes very strict political incentives and party lines that prevent people from voting against their own like members in a in a in a impeachment process.
I think that the people oftentimes don't care about this as much, because they can look at them as just being able to replace someone that they like better in the future, but they don't have those same direct political incentives as the people who are empowered to.
So I think that impeachment is another bad way of enforcing it.
And I think that we also can't trust politicians to self-enforce this, simply on on the like their own faith alone.
So it's necessary that, if we want to make sure that that corruption doesn't happen, if we want to make sure that laws are implemented fairly, if we want to make sure that politicians can't lie to us on the campaign trail and ultimately just say ha ha ha, I'm not I don't actually care about what I said I cared about, if we don't want those things to happen, then it's important make sure that we empower the people to use the recall election as a tool to hold their politicians accountable.
So we're very proud to propose.