We absolutely should not criminalize suicide.
I think that's a hole absolutely horrible thing to do for the people who are involved and are in a really bad place.
When you think about it would you criminalize cancer?
Would you criminalize a heart attack?
Would you criminalize any other kind of physical disease?
I think that the obvious answer to that is no.
Of course you wouldn't do that.
What kind of messed up person would punish somebody for having cancer in some kind of criminal fashion?
And I think that that's where this real problem comes in.
Because suicide isn't just some kind of like inherent defect or some kind of like like choice that people make with the intent to harm others with the intent to like trying to like recoup money or something or with the choice of like fucking over god.
This isn't a choice that people make when they're in a healthy state of mind.
It's a choice that people make because they're depressed because they have bipolar disorder because they have real mental illnesses that are not being treated well enough or that are so severe that people simply do not have the support necessary to overcome those kinds of things.
So I think that that's already inherently an immoral thing to do and the debate should stop there.
You should not criminalize disease you should be sympathetic to people who have diseases and you should offer support to people who have a disease.
And you should try to help them.
You shouldn't punish them for the way in which they feel or for something that is out of their control and that's an absolutely horrible thing to do.
But besides that I also think you're certainly not going to make the problems of suicide any less present just by criminalizing it.
Because when you actually go into the complexities of people who have mental health problems the complexities of people that have depression when people feel the way that they feel they don't really feel comfortable coming out with that they don't feel comfortable going to a therapist or reaching out to people for support and they don't feel comfortable doing that because they oftentimes feel that something is wrong with them because that's the way the depression works that's the way that people like when you're suicidal you're probably not just going around blurting out I'm suicidal come and help me.
These people are oftentimes struggling in silence and they do that because we live in a society in which people don't understand mental health in which people think that it's okay to criminalize it because they think that it's a choice that people make to hurt others or hurt god or some other kind of thing like that.
And when people misunderstand mental health in that kind of a way it only makes people who have mental health problems feel even worse about themselves and are even less likely to come forward.
And it also from a policy perspective effects the way in which we're willing to put money aside and it effects the way in which the public is willing to spend money on public health resources and it's a big reason why when you look at it like prisons are the number one provider of mental health resources in america because that's where like like where most of these kinds of things end up happening because we just simply do not offer like merely adequate enough support for people who have mental health issues.
So that's obviously like another big reason why criminalization simply isn't the answer to this.
I think at the end of the day this is like a very clear issue are you going to try to be sympathetic and understanding and actually come up with proactive and constructive solutions to help them with mental illness issues and depression or are you simply just going to assume the worst in people are you going to assume that people are making a choice and are you going to assume that you can punish people out of taking their own life of course you should choose to be empathetic and understanding and for those reasons you shouldn't criminalized suicide.