We should ban child actors because for two big reasons.
Reason number one, because it's there's no consent because these children can't possibly know what they're getting into and what the impact is gonna have on them and for number two, because even if it is something that they can consent into ultimately the harms that are likely to come out of this are just too extreme, so the paternalism that you would exert is justified and acceptable.
So first let's talk about consent.
I think that obviously consent is an incredibly important part of decision making in general in a liberal society, but I think that consent and willingness is particularly important when it comes to your job and your work because otherwise you're essentially just a forced laborer.
You're not actually freely engaging in work, and that's like obviously something that's very very egregious.
It's actually slavery, not something that you would accept in some kind of liberal and democratic society.
So let's talk about there why there's no consent in the specific circumstances then with regard to child actors and labor.
So the first reason is because they're just too young.
We are accept that children are incapable of consenting in a lot of ways.
You have things like statutory rape in age of consent for sex, we limit ability for kids to vote, to drive, to drink, do all kinds of decision making process while they're still developing while they're also while they're under the guardianship of their parents who are responsible for them and the like.
And I think this is very important because recognize that also child actors isn't just talking about teenagers or people who we perceive as maybe being more capable but oftentimes, child actors could literally mean infants.
It can mean toddlers.
It could mean people in elementary and middle school.
It's talking about people who are even less developed than you would think of when you typically think of younger people.
So I think that's a big problem.
The next problem is that there could there's no there's possibility of social or parental pressure, and I think that this is very real, and I think this is very likely to be important because there's a lot profit associated with child acting.
If you're a parent you can make a whole lot of money off of this possibly the famousness of your child.
So there's some pressure there but there also could just be more general social pressures that just tell you that this is something that you should do you even if you don't want to and because these are the people these are the adults that you look up to they're your parents.
You're probably likely to listen to them even if it's not what you want and that's not fair to kids.
So we shouldn't allow that to happen.
And the final reason that there's not really able to be any consent is because this is just unenforceable.
It's difficult to enforce legislation that could exist and I think the reason why it's difficult to enforce a law of this legislation is like first and foremost because there's a huge profit motive behind these industries if you're talking about things like the film industry acting and things like.
There's oftentimes a lot of lobbying incentives, a lot of like financial incentives, a lot of motives to maybe do things like legal settlements rather than create boxes things like that.
All kinds of things that make it so more likely than not you're not actually going to see enforcement.
So I don't think that that's very good on that front.
So next I want to talk about just like the degree of impact that this actually has on children because I think that in a lot of ways the stress of working from a young age, the stress of having no timelines, to having to go in front of large audiences constantly, the the pressure of all of these things from your job oftentimes this can result in like a lot of sadness for children.
It can result in a social isolation not growing up with a lot of friendships with people their own age because you're mostly around like professionals in a field or staff and things like that, and I think that this has a real adverse developmental effect on children and I think that this could be the reason why it's more likely that a lot of child actors end up with psychological problems or mental health issues.
There's obviously examples of that.
So for all those reasons I definitely think that we should bad child actors.