Reality television does more harm than good, because it poisons the minds of our youth and leads to them being a whole lot lazier, it leads them being brainwashed by unintelligent and stupid things, and it ultimately gives them unrealistic expectations about the way in which life actually works.
And, all of these things are very bad, and they're all reality TV's fault.
So, let's start by talking about laziness, and why this happens.
I think that this is important, because reality TV is designed in a such a way, in that it keeps drawing you into it.
It builds up the drama, it builds up a lot of the worst aspects of like human lives, things like that, or a lot of like just like, random nonsense to distract you from your day to day life, or whatever it does, it to keep you into in involved with it.
And, that's bad, because it takes away time that you can be doing for other things like, I don't know, like going to the gym, or playing sports or something, which is important, sense so many young people in developed countries have problems, especially america have problems with weight.
You could be doing some other kind of intellectual activity, which could be better.
There's also the problem of reality TV just like probably overall being stupid in general, it has like a lot of stupid people on, and at least in my opinion, and the opinions lot of other people too though.
So that's bad, because what it does is when you just keep watching it over and over again, you pick up a lot of like mannerisms that you may see, because like you can look in a lot, like, people on reality TV, who are making a whole lot of money, as like role models, or people worthy of emulation, so that sets like a really bad example to people, so, you may be more likely to do some of the stupid things that they do, in TV, so all of that's bad.
I think that like, finally, it also sets a lot of harmful social standards, and expectations in society.
Like based on what you can do with your lifestyle, like a lot of these people just get paid to like sit around and chill, not really actually do anything, other than like like mess around, and like play pranks on each other, go to parties and stuff.
Like, that's like a that's like it sound like a pretty nice lifestyle kind of, but it's ultimately not a realistic one, and it's not one that you want people to try to look up to, or aspire to be like.
Because, it's like a rather bad example to set, because the vast majority of us aren't going to get paid to go to parties, or things like that.
Like it's ridiculous, and we shouldn't be setting the example that, like this is something to look up to.
Like, the idea of reality TV is if you like wanted to be an actual like even remotely accurate portrayal of reality, it should be focusing on things that aren't, ultimately, unlike reality, so that's bad.
So, it's for all those reasons that, I think that reality television does a whole lot more harm than good, because it causes a whole lot of harms, and also I think that, it doesn't do any good for people either, and that's like important on the comparative.
Because, I don't really think that, reality TV is uniquely important, you can replace reality TV with most other television, like maybe instead just like watch sports or something like that, I think watching sports are pretty good, they don't have all the same problems.
Maybe, you can do something active instead, or get a hobby, a whole lot of things that would be better than reality TV, that are just as easily replaceable.
Yeah, for all those reasons very proud to propose.