We should not ban trans fat usage in food.
Because at the end of the day who is the government to say how people should live their life?
Who is the government to say if people should prefer to eat delicious unhealthy food as opposed to healthy boring tasteless food?
I think that this is where one of the most important distinctions in the debate is.
Because when you talk about how trans fat is using things like oreos, how trans fat is like used in like cupcakes and french fries in croissants and other things like that, these things tend to have something in common: I think they're all pretty delicious.
I think that like oreos, french fries, a lot of deep fried, things like that, they happen to taste quite quite good.
And one of the big reasons why that's likely the case, why they likely taste the way they do, why they have that like like extra special addictive quality to them, is because of the trans fat that's inside of them.
So I'm not going to pretend that like science is wrong.
I'm not going to pretend that science is just like inaccurate and that trans fat is secretly healthy for you.
But what I am going to pretend is that as long as we educate people on what's actually in their food and as long as maybe we have other reforms in place, that make it so that like food producers can't hide what's in their food or conceal what's in their food, as long as people are making responsible choices, I see no reason why trans fat can't be in their food if they choose to eat it because they make that choice knowing that it's something that they like and something that tastes good for them.
Now this is a very important distinction.
Because it the end of the day banning trans fat in food is conceding the argument that there is a certain way in which people want to live their lives.
It's conceding that people would rather live maybe five years longer, ten years longer, people would prefer that to not being able to eat their favorite fried foods.
To not being able to eat oreo cookies and things like that.
And you know what, maybe this is like a difficult calculation for a lot of people that make and either because like you're talking about comparing the favorite foods that you eat on a pretty frequent basis, to like years of your life later on down the line, but I think that it's important to note that the most important thing about like life, like what makes it worth living, is that you get to enjoy things that you enjoy.
Like you get to enjoy things that you like.
And oftentimes food is at the center of like indulging yourself in a way in which makes life more enjoyable for you.
So at the end of the day if you want to have trans fat in your food, if you think it tastes good, if you think it enriches your life in whichever way, then you know what, the government shouldn't get in the way of you living your life the way in which you want to do.
We should not ban trans fat usage in food.