We should legalize the ivory trade because at the end of the day the best way to protect the welfare of elephants is going to be by legalizing the ivory trade.
I want to start by talking about what animal protection for elephants looks like right now.
Oftentimes elephants live in developing parts of the world so, they live in places in sub saharan africa, they live in places in like india, places where, by and large, there is other priorities on governments minds rather than the welfare of elephants.
Oftentimes these countries have to worry about the welfare of their own people and they've pretty reasonably put that amongst above the welfare of elephants.
So the result is that poaching enforcement is under enforced, things like reservations are oftentimes under funded and under cared for, and the general welfare of animals and elephants isn't something that we consider all that highly.
And poachers can essentially do whatever they want with impunity and that's why the ivory trade is something that is pretty widespread and common and something that everyone really knows about.
I think that the legalization of the ivory trade is actually going to help this in some critical ways.
By establishing a profit motive for the long term survival of animals you're going to it's likely that you'll see a creation of a business model where governments are going to recognize that animals are that elephants are a precious commodity and one that they need to preserve.
And even if some of them are going to be slaughtered, it's at the end of the day no different than, well you're going to have some cows that are going to get slaughtered, some pigs that are going to get slaughtered, some birds that are going to get slaughtered, and at the end of the day what this does is it allows like more broadly to have like less of an endangerment of the species and something that I think is good.
And I think that additionally when governments are going to see elephants as more of a profit generating commodity, there they're first going to have more money just to enforce things like poaching laws, but I also think that like regulators and actors like that are now going to have more of an incentive to look in the long term to make sure that reading is that there's enough animal breeding to make sure that there's like enough elephants that the species doesn't die out and things like this.
I think that all of that's going to be really helpful to make sure that animals are going to be better cared for.
But on the other side of the equation, even if you don't think that any of those arguments about animal welfare should matter, then you probably believe that animals don't really have rights and we should just put human pleasure amongst over the welfare of animals and under that framework, under the reasonable framework where even if it's a lower order pleasure like just having nicer jewelery or nicer accessories, at the end of the day it doesn't really matter so much to the animals what's actually happening to them.
We kill animals all the time.
We kill them for food, we kill them for pleasure, for hunting, we kill them in all kinds of walks of life.
Just because something is an elephant doesn't really make it all that special and it's probably not going to change the world all that much.
So for all those reasons we should legalize the ivory trade.