We should not ban beauty contests for two main reasons: first, because it's philosophically anti-feminist in nature and secondarily, a ban of beauty contests would directly harm the empowerment and advancement of a lot of women in society.
So, first, I wanna start by talking about why I think that a lot of the harms that are traditionally identified with beauty contests are not actually unique to beauty contests.
So, whether it's the idea that it's going to lead in this surge in men objectifying women or the idea that it leads to certain kinds of like, ideal conceptions of beauty that are often unattainable and therefore have adverse impacts on people's mental health, all of these things are not even a little bit unique to beauty contests.
In fact, I think that beauty contests are one of the least influential factors here.
They're much more influenced by social media, by advertising, by the modeling industry, by like, movie and media industries and TV shows and by pornography.
I don't actually think that beauty contests have all that much of an impact on, like, social conception of beauty, however, the what would have a whole lot of impact are what an actual ban would do because a ban would have a great deal of impact in a more adverse way.
So, what would this look like?
So, first and foremost, I think the act of banning women from engaging in certain activities or banning beauty contests is necessarily anti-feminist because of the way in which it restricts choice and this is incredibly important because the main one of the, like, central tenets of of the, like, of the patriarchy is that it restricts the way in which women are able to act and it essentially makes decisions on behalf of women and removes their ability as agents to make decisions.
This is incredibly true of the, like, situation of beauty pageants because such a ban assumes that women are not aware of the possibilities of objectification or that women are not aware of the possibilities that this could come with, like, adverse harms if people look at them the wrong way and therefore, women are not, like, comfortable or capable of making decisions on themselves as for how they present their body to the world.
And I think the idea that we have to control the way in which women present their bodies to the world because we're worried about the way that men are going to react to them when this happens is the ultimate is an ultimate sign of the of, like, the omnipresence of patriarchy in society and I think that's quite bad.
But additionally, I also think that beauty contests are, in a lot of, actively anti-patriarchal in the way that they exist and the reason this is true is because they essentially exist as, like, a unique economic path for women and since a lot of, like, occupations are traditionally much more exclusive or have harder glass ceilings for women to crack, whether it's like CEOs of, like, a lot of corporations or even getting into, like, certain occupations like stem stem areas and things like that, it's oftentimes harder for women to make money in a lot of sectors and things like that and this is important because whether like because, like, beauty contests, modeling in general and things like that offer a a very, like, a solid source of revenue for women, something that is, like, quite helpful for a lot of things like that.
But I also think that this is, in a lot of ways, important because it presents a lot of women with a platform by which they can critique society and by which they can do a lot of these things.
So, in addition to women having more financial resources as a result of this, this also gives women a platform and it gives women a platform by which they can often tout beliefs that they have or often say things that are better for feminism, so you look at the example of alicia machado in the, like, most in the in the, like, recent presidential election and how she was able to give a very compelling narrative against donald trump and about how he's probably not very good for women in a whole lot of other ways, things like that.
But the final thing that I wanna talk about is obviously, women still engage in beauty contests and I think one of the main reasons they engage in beauty contests is because they look at them as practically beneficial to themselves in a number of ways.
First and foremost because a lot of people, people who are, like, quite attractive, are obviously saying you know what, maybe people have specialized skills and talents.
I could never be a model because I'm not attractive enough to do that, but hopefully, I can be pretty good at other jobs that I choose to do.
So so, people who want to go into modeling, people who wanna go into acting or advertisement, a beauty contest is oftentimes a very good way to get name recognition.
It's essentially like free advertising, it's a way to get your name out there, to get, like, your, like, personality out there and to get the way you look out there.
This could be very important to landing future jobs, so in a lot of ways, it could make it harder for women to get jobs if you banned beauty contests.
That wouldn't be very good and for all of those reasons, among others, we're incredibly proud to oppose this motion.