We should legalize cell phone use while driving.
But at the very top I want to be clear about some thing: using your cell phone while you're driving doesn't mean that you're texting while driving.
There are certain things that you can do with your cellphone that are obviously a whole lot more dangerous than others.
If you're texting while driving, if you're literally watching a video on your phone while driving, things like that are obviously very dangerous things.
But if you're, say, just hitting the like skip button on your on your itunes or spotify to get a different song on, if you're just looking at your phone to see what directions google maps is giving you for your navigation, I think that these are things that are minimally disruptive, certainly not any more disruptive than looking at a comparable function on the dashboard of your car, so I really don't think that the use of your cell phone while driving is in of itself a bad thing.
It's how you use your cell phone that could be a bad and of course we should incentivize people and make and try to encourage people to use their phone responsibly because irresponsible use of your phone is both a danger to you and other people on the road.
But that shouldn't take away from the fact that for a whole lot of people using your cell phone while driving is just a necessary thing to do.
If you live somewhere and you want to find directions to some new place a whole lot of cars don't just have built in GPS systems, they don't just have a nice little expensive screen on the dashboard where you can plug in an address and it's going to take you there.
Nowadays if people want to get somewhere they're probably going to use google maps on their phone or something similar like that to get, or like waze or something like that, to get to those places and that necessarily requires that you use your phone.
And I certainly think that having people know where they're going is a whole lot better than people aimlessly wandering this the streets slowing down every other street to check a street sign not knowing where they're going, making abrupt stops because they're really confused, all of those things are probably a whole lot worse for safety than, say, just looking at your phone every once in awhile to see when you have to make a left turn.
Similarly, I don't really think that it's all that bad if you just if you're just changing the music maybe on your phone every once in awhile to get a different song on or if you just want to fast forward something.
These are things that are in a lot of ways minimally disruptive and really not all that bad.
But they're in a lot of ways very necessary or if not necessary things that are important to the well being of people's driving.
So I think that when you when you blanketly say you can't use your cell phone while driving this could be something that can have pretty drastic consequences.
This could be especially true because that could even be construed to include that if you're just talking on the phone using a hands free device, like maybe there's bluetooth on your car, isn't that still using your cell phone while you're driving?
I and many other people like, the police officer that pulls you over, will probably argue that that is still using your cell phone while driving and you could still get punished for that even if you're still looking at the road while driving and the only difference is that you're talking to someone on your phone which is no different than if you're talking to someone who's sitting in the seat next to you.
Look, at the end of the day anything can be a distraction if you use it improperly and anything can cause harm to you or others on the road if you don't use it properly and cell phones are no different.
But at the end of the day, that doesn't mean that we should just make it illegal to use cell phones while driving.
We should therefore, for all these reasons, legalize cell phone use while driving.