Science is a major threat, for three big reasons: first, it's a threat because it'll lead it helps make war easier, with weapons of mass destruction, which are awful.
Second, because the modifications and advancements, that are being made to a lot of organisms in science, are resulting in a lot more deaths and diseases, and things like that.
And third and finally, the threat of artificial intelligence is going to be very difficult to contain, and possibly an existential threat to people.
So, let's break all of these things down.
First, let's talk about war and science's role in that.
I think that, when we're talking about what science does its research in, as far as dollars spent on scientific research, the vast majority of scientific research is for weapons of war.
The trillions of dollars that ultimately are spent around the world on better ways to kill someone, or better ways to prevent your people from getting killed, at the expense of other people, it's honestly like bewildering how much money gets spent on this, and how much science plays a role in creating like worse nuclear weapons, more deadly bioweapons, or chemical weapons.
The way in which we create weapons of mass destruction through war, or not even just that, but like , more advanced killing machines, and tanks, and airplanes with science, things like that, they're all ways in which science is a major threat, because as signs advances more and more, these weapons become more and more dangerous.
So, in the circumstances in which they are used, they become more of a threat to bigger groups of people.
So you see circumstances, where like science can lead to an entire city, being wiped off the face of the earth in the blink of an eye, if a petulant leader a petulant, like child leader, like donald trump decides that he wants to do so.
And, I think that, the ability to eradicate such mass amounts of people, in the blink of an eye, because of science is an incredible problem, it's not a responsibility that anyone should have, any leader should have, any country should have.
Because, it's simply just too dangerous, and science the science on this is bad.
So, the next thing I want to talk about is about threats that we have in like , the modifications of organisms.
So, we've seen a lot of things, like, so when the over use thins, or trying to solve a problem, like say, like we want to like solve a disease, we tend to oftentimes use like over, like, we over-antibiotics something, or we and what this does is it can result in say, a super virus, or an antibiotic resisting bug, because the way in which we treat problems only result in sometimes worse problems.
Or, you have the case of like africanized honey bees, which killer bees, which result in the displacement of a lot of other bees, which result, in very dangerous bees that like, swarm people and kill people.
You have cases where you can genetically modify crops, and this leads to less bio diversity of the crop, so, if some kind of disease affects the crop, you can see mass crop deaths, as opposed to, if there's more genetic diversity within the gene pool, you're less able to see like the mass like the mass deaths of crops.
There's a whole lot of ways, in which genetic modification of organisms, and things like that, and trying to solve problems with science, only leaves the worst problems.
But finally, let's talk about artificial intelligence.
I think that, the general push toward creating super intelligence is inherently uncontrollable, and an inherent threat, because we don't really know what this intelligence is going to do, we don't really know what it's it's going to have, we don't really know what it's going to think of humans, what its capacities are, what it what is capable of, and I think that, in a lot of ways, our scientific research often supersedes our scientific understanding, and the possible consequences.
So, for all those reasons science is a major threat.