We should not adopt libertarianism because I think on both a principle and on a practical level of how the world works, libertarianism is a rather flawed ideology.
So let's start by talking about what actually defines libertarianism and I think that what defines libertarianism most is it's extremism in a way in which it values concepts like ownership.
So when you think about it, the property that you own whether it's the computer that I'm using for these recordings to your house or your car, or anything like that, obviously to some extent these are the results of your labors.
It was your money or something like that.
But I think that the state, also to some extent, has some kind of ownership over it and society to some extent has done things like that.
Society does things like create roads, you're able to make money, it creates like an economic regulation, it creates courts, it does all kinds of things to make sure that your life is functional in such a way in which it's possible for you to even have property in the first place.
So what libertarians propose to do is have those services but have them valued at the lowest way possible and whenever possible always deferred to individual property rights but I think this is a problematic conception of the way to actually look at the world in a principled level because you shouldn't look at property as just some persons as an individual bit of property owned by a person, rather you should look at it as a whole lot of collective factors went into making that property possible so therefore the state has some degree of right and ownership over it and I think that that's very important because that changes the evaluation from if we're trying to, say, tax somebody higher, is this a matter of a rights violation verses helping people not starve maybe.
Or is this a or is this instead of debate of you know what the state has a right to this any some this anyway, now we should have more of a discussion about what degree this is going to be taken to and I think that the impact this has is that it's going to lead to the state being more willing to take and more willing to actually spend things on public goods which is I think important because by and large, libertarian ideology manifests itself in a way in which you're going to have less services which means that people are going to be more vulnerable to things like corruption, more vulnerable to things like circumstances out of their control because of their birth.
All of these things when the state is minimizing its social safety net, it's minimizing its infrastructure, all of that's going to be worse off which I think is bad.
But I also think on a practical level libertarianism is rather ridiculous in its purported outcomes.
So first on like a principal level, the idea of libertarianism is that we're most free if there is minimal state intervention and we have ownership over our own property but I think the problem is that when you have minimal state intervention in things, you don't actually even achieve the outcome of people being most free and I think the reason for this is because without government regulation of the economy, without government regulation to like help people up if they're in a if they're in a disadvantaged circumstance, then you're not actually free to essentially live your life in the way in which you see fit.
You're not actually free to maximize on individual choices and things like that which are undermining ideological goods of libertarianism.
I think that as far as facilitating even the end goals of libertarianism in a lot of ways, state regulation is required to make sure that people are treated fairly in a whole lot of ways and I think that libertarianism doesn't really focus so much on those ends as much as it focuses on the means as much as it focuses on the right to not have state intervention, a right to own your property as those inherent goods being more valuable than the end goal.
I think that by and large critiques of libertarianism focus on the best ways to meet those end goals and I think that for all of those reasons, libertarianism should not be adopted.