Internet censorship brings more good than harm, for two big reasons L first, because internet censorship will prevent the rise of fake news, which is absolutely catastrophic for society, currently, and second, because internet censorship can end cyber bullying, and the horrible consequences that that results in, so, let's start by talking about fake news.
I think that, fake news is an incredibly important issue in this debate, for a couple of reasons: first, because fake news is becoming widely prevalent, as far as problems are concerned.
Keep been mind that, there are millions upon millions of articles, or tens of thousands of articles, they got millions and millions of clicks and views, that are not factually verified in any way, that they can be posted by some random blog, then picked up by some random like news accumulator, and finds its way on twitter, and then suddenly you find, because of various algorithms on twitter and facebook, that result in sensationalizing content, being prioritized over accuracy of content.
The result that you get is that, you see a lot of fake news that's being widely disseminated, and widely read, and people interpret these things as facts, because there's no real mechanisms that check against these things.
And then secondarily, what this does, is it results in incredibly bad social harms, because it skews people's perceptions of reality.
It does this by either inventing problems that don't exist, so, you can look at something like immigration, like saying that immigrants are more likely to be rapists or murderers, even if the opposite is true, factually in reality, and oftentimes immigrants are law abiding citizens, and show more respect for the law than a lot of other people in society.
What it does is that, you are can look at a lot of like fake news as the way it actually skews reality, or on the flip side of that, it allows you to come up with just like false data, or ignore problems that actually do exist, so things like global warming, which are clearly a major threat to the entire world, these problems can get ignored, because you can just have someone put out a fake news article that discredits the actual science, and then people start to believe that.
And, I think that, the problem with this, that this lead to huge social impacts, this guides social policy, and I think that the goal of the state is to do what is in the best interests of the people, and while it's obviously we're always going to have, in a democratic society, a difference in values, a difference in preferences of what's important, all of these value oriented debate should be based off of reasonable sets of facts, and a reasonable reality.
Because, once you're operating from the same reality, the disagreements that you're going to have are going to be far more reasonable, and far less hostile, and you're at least going to agree that, what are the problems, and what are different ways that we can solve the problems.
But,when you have fake news rising, you're not really having constructive discourse at all.
You're not really going to be able to solve any problems at all, because the nature of the even existence of problems is, on its root, being disputed.
But, the second thing that I want to talk about is about cyber bullying, because since it's very easy for you to just make your attacks on other people anonymous, and ensure complete lack of accountability, it's very hard to punish people if they try to cyber bully somebody.
So, you necessarily need to have censorship as a way to block these kinds of harms, prevent these harms.
And I think that, the importance of cyberbullying and trolling isn't something that should be understated, because when you first and foremost, there's a general fear that comes to these things, oftentimes these things come in the form of threats, so, threats to threats to your family and your safety, and this could force people into hiding in some circumstances, because they fear of the internet, and all of their information getting publicly released on the internet, it's called getting, or this could also result in severe mental health issues, even suicide in more severe cases.
So that's a clear problem that we need to combat.
So for all those reasons, internet censorship brings more good than harm.