We should keep cosmetic surgery legal for two big reasons.
First, because I think that it's something that people have a right to do with their body and second, because it's probably going to happen anyway so it's better to have it under legal and safe circumstances.
So first let's talk about rights.
I think that one of the most important things that we accept is that you have a right to do what you want with your own body because of all of the things that are uniquely expressive of your own individuality and your own personality and further of all the things that don't really actually affect anyone else it's what you do with your body.
That's why it's fine if you get like tattoos or piercings or things like that it's fine.
You get to pick what you wear, how your hair should look, all of these things and I don't think that cosmetic surgery is meaningfully distinct from that.
It may cost a little bit more money.
It may be be an alteration to your body but in a lot of ways like it's similar to maybe something like a tattoo.
It's something that's permanent.
It lasts forever, so what?
People can make decisions about how they want to look, what they want to look like, this is how people express their own in individuality.
That's fine.
We shouldn't care people do that.
But further I think that it's important to note that this is not only something that's done without harming anyone and it's not only a reasonable decision to make, but this is also even something that I think people can generally do with pretty good information, because when you're considering getting plastic surgery it's not like doctors are allowed to not tell you the possible risks of surgery.
They're usually required by law to talk to you about safety possible side effects of surgery, things like that.
So these are generally informed decisions too.
So that's all real important so given that it's informed and it's reasonable and there's no third party harms you should definitely just allow people to make this choice for themselves.
So the second area of argumentation I walk talk about is about safety issues and this is important because in the same way in that it's oftentimes pretty easy for people to get something like a tattoo or a piercing at a more dubious establishment or maybe like they just have like their cousin or friend do it or something like that, I don't think that this is necessarily so hard to believe for a lot of cosmetic surgeries because maybe some of them were a bit more complex than others but at the end of the day there's still going to be a demand for cosmetic surgery.
There's still going to be people who are going to want to look differently and this is important because then you're not necessarily going to have as informed decisions because you're not going to have the same laws regarding what doctors have to say to their patients.
You're not going to have the same safety checks to make sure things like equipment is clean, doctors are qualified.
You won't have those concerns.
You won't have those things.
So this is going to mean that people are still going to get cosmetic surgery, but it's going to be less safe.
People are going to be more likely to experience awful side effects and that's only going to make any everything worse.
So I think for all those reasons I'm very proud to oppose.