We should legalize the growing of coca leaves, because its banning is cultural the remnants of cultural imperialism at its finest.
So, let's talk about what we mean by legalizing coca leaves.
We're not legalizing cocaine, the manufacturing more concentrated form of cocaine that, often requires bleaching, insertion of chemicals, and making it a whole lot stronger and a whole lot more addictive and dangerous, that can stay illegal.
We're going to legalize the leaves in its natural form, in any kind of capacity.
So, let's talk about why this is necessary and important.
So, let's start by talking about the harms, and the coincidence of the harms, because chewing coca leaves is just something that you do, because it can give you like a tiny bit of energy, it can be like a pick me up.
In a lot of ways, it's no different than drinking a cup of coffee, because it gives you a little bit more energy, maybe or it could be someone like tobacco, which people often say tobacco can also be like a pick me up, and they chew tobacco leaves.
The interesting thing about these is that, all of these things only oftentimes give you a minor energy boost, these things aren't all that harmful, unless you abuse them, and there's not really all that much of a difference for abuse or health among all of them.
Here's the key distinction though: a lot of white people use tobacco, and a lot of indigenous people use different kinds of drugs.
So here's the problem, when you see a lot of similar affects for different substances, but you're going to criminalize one and not the other, it's important to look at why are we doing this.
And, I think that the reason why we're doing this is because, at the end of the day, there's simply not enough respect in the international community for the reasons the nuanced reasons why people actually use these things.
First and foremost of these reasons can be: people use it because they feel like using it.
And honestly, the debate should stop there, because that's a good enough reason.
If people feel like they want to get that like that small high, or that like small jolt of energy, from chewing a coca leaf, then you know what?
That's fine.
It's not really hurting anyone.
I don't really see why it's something that has to be a matter of international convention, and treaty, and law, given that it's pretty low impact when people do this.
It doesn't actually cause all that much harm.
But additionally, I think that there is, quite obviously, something deeply insidious, and deeply imperialistic about this.
Namely, the reason why some of it is getting banned and not others is because, people don't respect the cultural traditions that are associated with it.
So for example, you can look at like people in like the andes have been growing coca leaves, and chewing them, and using them as part of ceremonies and rituals for millennia, ever like for a very very very long time.
And when you ban it, your ultimately banning their way of life, and your banning an ability for them to actually live in line with what their values are, and what their culture has been for generations.
And this is absolutely outrageous, because first of all, obviously you can't enforce this at all, you're not going to be able to go into every mountain village in the andes, and rip out a coca leaves, when you find it.
But additionally, even if you could do that, it's grossly immoral to do so, because these people aren't hurting anyone.
They just want to live their lives, in a way that's accordance with their ancestors, and accordance with their values.
And especially, sense a lot of these indigenous groups have already lost so much, they've lost so many like their fellow people's lives, they've lost a whole lot of land, they've a whole lot of their culture has been erased, so you know what?
We should, probably a long time ago, but certainly by now, we should stop doing that, and we should let people have their cultural ceremonies, in a way in which they choose to do so, even if there involves a drug that is illegal.
So, for those reasons proud to propose.