Goal-line technology is the classy example of something that seems like quite a good idea on its face and superficially, but when you take a deeper look at something, it actually is quite harmful because it undermines the very basis of sports and the real reasons why people actually like sports.
So, for starters, let's actually make sure that we focus in on why sports are actually important and why sports actually matter or have value because I don't actually think that the value of sports comes from anything other than the entertainment factor they provide.
The value of sports comes from the fact that people enjoy them, that they bring a lot of joy to people, that they're fun, that they have a certain kind of story, a narrative that is surrounding.
There is no real abstract philosophical excellency behind, like like, the human excellency of success or achievement.
I don't actually think that any of that really matters to sports.
The only reason why sports matter is they provide an entertainment factor.
So, given that this is true, I think that goal-line technology is bad because goal-line technology removes a lot of the narratives from from sports from fifa, especially, that make it a lot more prominent and enjoyable for people.
So, what do I mean by this?
I mean that while obviously, goal-line technology can be accurate and goal-line technology can make it more likely that a goal call is going to be made correctly, I actually think that this isn't going to be good for sports because I think that there is a lot of inherent value to sports being, to some extent, arbitrary.
What do I mean by this?
So, first, I think that when fans perceive that they have been, like, like, essentially screwed over by a call that was made or the ref made an incorrect decision, what this essentially does is it creates a feeling of solidarity around the fan base.
The fan base is going to feel more fired up because they're going to say oh, well we would have won that game if it weren't for this stupid call.
Fans are ultimately going to be more likely to be fired up for the next game as opposed to if they just straight up lost.
Maybe fans would feel more dispirited, but I think that in a lot of ways, fans are much more likely to engage as well in the sport because when fans feel like they've been wronged, they're much more likely to want to engage a sport, so, in order to make sure that everyone in the world knows that they were wronged fans are gonna be much more likely engage in the sport, they're gonna be much more likely to want to cheer on people, to show the to like, essentially, like, show everyone that they're good enough to win and that it was only dumb luck that robbed them last time.
Fans are much more likely to engage in the sport and I think that's something that can be very good, but additionally, I also think that there is a dramatized element, a narrative element that comes because when you have this, like, almost random and arbitrary element that's surrounding it, it creates a lot more of, like, stories in sports, it's like oh, well are the refs able to make this right call, are the refs going to do this or that, it creates, like, essentially another factor, another variable in sports and that's ultimately one of the things that makes sports more entertaining as a narrative, it's something that makes sports more enjoyable to engage in because you know that there are other factors at play besides simply what the players do.
It creates more variables, it creates more variants, something that can oftentimes be fun in sports.
But the final thing that I wanna talk about is while even if all of that seems dubious, I don't actually think that goal-line technology is necessary in any way, so, it's not really gonna do any good anyway.
So, why do I think that this is true?
So, first and foremost, as far as the harms that were identified by the proposition team, obviously, ban violence cannot be reasonably sourced goal-line technology or the fact that referees make incorrect calls.
If anything, this is much more likely that some fans are irresponsible bad people who are prone to violence and that other 'cause most fans are certainly not violent and oftentimes, sometimes, people get too drunk at games.
This is probably more influenced by stadium alcohol policies than it is by the existence of goal-line technology.
But the final thing that think that oftentimes, refs are sufficiently good, refs get extensive training on how to spot decisions, refs are incredibly good at these kinds of decisions, oftentimes, calls are rather simple to make 'cause you have, like, a goal-line referee that has pretty good and unobscured often lines of vision, you oftentimes have multiple refs looking at the same thing, these refs are professionals that have been doing this for a long time and get paid to do it, so, I don't often think there's that much of a need for this.
So, for all of those reasons, goal-line technology brings more harm than good.