Recall elections are incredibly bad because for for two big reasons.
First and foremost, because they shift policymaking incentives away from the long term and away from more intelligent policymaking, and in favor of shorter term, worse policymaking.
And secondarily, because it undermines the legitimacy of legitimately elected officials and it curtails their ability to do their job effectively.
Okay, before I get into those two big points, I want to talk about some context that I think is very important to get all right off the top of the bat, because I think that the gov team is making a gross mischaracterization when they talk about the ways in which this going to be used.
They say that this is going to be used on people who are woefully incompetent, people who commit like corruption charges or things like that.
So, there's a thing in america called the impeachment process, and the impeachment process specifically applies to people who commit high crimes or misdemeanors.
So you can very much be kicked out of office by other avenues.
In the status quo, already, if you do something like corruption or if you commit some kind of a crime or some other kind of thing.
So, I think that, therefore, the meat of this discussion is not so much about when people do objectively wrong things, but when people do something that is seen as an ideological wrong or a very disagreeable thing.
So, incompetence is a very subjective term.
I think donald trump is incompetent, a lot of people disagree, or things like that.
So this is going to be an ideologically-based recall push that is done by the people.
So, this has the problems that I alluded to earlier: the problems of legitimacy and the problem of altering policy incentives in a negative way.
Let's start by talking about the alteration of policymaking incentives.
So, it's important to make sure that you're able to balance effectively short-term policy needs verse long-term policy needs.
For example, it's important to make sure that you're not having awful global warming so that way earth is livable in a generation.
It's also important to make sure that you create policy, for example, so that like social security fund in america doesn't die out by the time the current generation retires.
These are long-term policy goals that are important to uphold.
However, they oftentimes require short-term sacrifices, short-term sacrifices in productivity, short-term sacrifices in economic gain, things like that.
These are often things that the current powers, the current the current most politically powerful groups are opposed to and something that likely very unhappy about.
So when politicians take stances against these kinds of things, this is what's disproportionately more likely to be seen as an impetus for a recall election, an impetuses them grossly doing their job incorrectly, because it's very easy to point at the very current and apparent harms that could possibly be brought in by a more long-term policy focus.
However, it doesn't necessarily mean that's good.
But this also means that there's a problem where officials are afraid of retribution, and they're afraid to take certain policy stances out of fear of retribution.
This is the exact reason why we make sure that judges oftentimes have like a lot of federal judges, all federal judges actually at our point, that have lifelong terms.
And the reason for this is because you don't have to have judges worry about political repercussions as a result of the decisions that they believe institutionally make the most sense.
And this is a very important one that we don't want to we want to make sure that we keep in place.
The next thing that I want to talk about is about legitimacy and about why this is bad.
So when you look at current strategic tactics that are used by political parties in america, the biggest thing is that they try to undermine the ability of the of the opponent to do anything.
And by undermining the ability of the opponent to do anything, that's ultimately how you are best able to serve your own side.
And I think that this has problems when it's compounded, because I think that this means that this political climate means that a recall election is uniquely likely to be abused.
A recall election is uniquely likely to be called into called upon or discussed anytime a politician does something remotely partisan.
This can be seen as a way to distract from the current politics that are happening, this can be seen as a way to try to get like some accountability.
This could also just be a way to deny the fact.
Like if you have to keep having the election over and over again, the ruling party isn't actually going to be able to meaningfully pass policy, you probably just going to see a passing back and forth whenever someone does something like ridiculous.
So like you know what, this is ultimately just like a very flawed system.
So for those reasons, very proud to oppose.