Sex education should be mandatory because it makes sense from a public health perspective, from a public policy perspective, and because the people who think it shouldn't be mandatory and want abstinence only education are idiots who want to impose their values on a population that is oftentimes unwilling and that's wrong.
So let's start by talking about why mandatory sex education is incredibly good.
First reason is that it's just like scientifically proven to help reducing STDs and things like.
The reality is that people are going to keep having sex no matter how many times you tell them to wait until marriage.
The reason for that, well there's many reasons for that, reason number one is probably because sex is fun.
Reason number two is that people just as general social trends are getting married at later and later now.
People aren't going to wait until their like late twenties or maybe even their thirties to have sex that's absolutely ridiculous so obviously these things are going to happen.
So sex can carry some degree of dangers especially if you have unprotected sex and especially if you're having it with strangers.
So this is why things like condoms are incredibly important and if you don't have sex education these aren't going to be things you're going to learn about.
You're not, you're going to have to like resort to learning about things on like the internet or just like a friend who heard about something from a friend or hope that you have access to some kind of good public health resource.
Having this be something that you learn in school is incredibly important to make sure that you're not having the spread of STDs and things like that.
But besides that it's also helpful for getting rid of unwanted pregnancies.
And this is the reason why like like places in the south have, who have abstinence only sex educations they have the highest rates of abortion and higher rates of unwanted pregnancy because they don't learn about, they don't have as much access to contraceptives and condoms and things like that and they don't learn about these things as much in classes and they don't learn about it from a young age, despite the fact that they should.
So you're more likely going to see society getting held back by like more kids getting born out of wedlock, more kids being born before parents having kids before they're ready to have kids and all kinds of other things that can be the result of unwanted pregnancies.
So all of those things are just like the public policy and public health reasons why mandatory sex education is incredibly important.
But besides all that, I want to talk about the other side in the sense that this is essentially conceding that you're not going to be able to have abstinence only sex education you know like sex till marriage or things like.
And I think that's absolutely ridiculous because america is not jesus land and or nowhere in the world really is except for maybe vatican city.
But besides the fact is is that it's not like it's a theocracy where public policy should be made in the eyes of like what is like ostensibly the most religious, when in reality it's just going to be making things worse for a whole lot of real people.
And that's like a really big problem.
It doesn't really matter if something is seen as morally coercive by religious people, it doesn't really matter.
Like jesus isn't going to smite americans but but people are going to keep having unwanted pregnancies, people are going to get STDs, people are going to get like like hefty medical bills as a result of this or they're going to spread it to other people unknowingly.
These are real problems that people actually have to face and the fact that people are willing to say in the name of god that you're just going to let people die, let people lose money, let people have live worse lives possibly, and not have the tools they need, it's absolutely horrendous and for all those reasons sex education should be mandatory.