We should ban smacking because it's a form of child abuse, because parents have no right to physically abuse their kids, because it's absolutely something we can enforce and because I'm you know what it's a form of paternalism for parents' parts because it leads to worse parenting anyway, and it raises their kids in a worse way.
So let's start by talking about why physically beating your child is absolutely wrong.
It's wrong for a couple of reasons: first because it harms the kid.
Because even if something like spanking may seem harmless, it's a fine line between spanking and abuse.
Especially if you do it continuously, especially if you do it particularly hard and this is oftentimes likely, because if you spank if you're spanking your child, it's probably because you're pretty pissed off at your child.
The kid did something that you don't like so you're going to physically you're gonna spank them to like pay them back, try to teach them a lesson.
So given that parents are doing this when they're not in a very good mood, when they're angry, when they wanna teach their kids a lesson, it's not necessarily incumbent on them to be in the mind set where they're going to be particularly gentle.
Especially because it's not like kids if they're being like gently touched, you're not really teaching them that much of a lesson.
So the entire point of it is that you need to cause them pain.
You need to make them cry or something like that.
And that's simply something that's not right.
It's not right because it's mean to the kid but also because who do parents think they are that they can just do that to kids?
Parents don't have ownership over their child.
They're it's it's like a slave master mentality where you can whip somebody.
It's absolutely ludicrous that you think that you have the right to hit another human being, to make them physically suffer, to make them be physically tormented, to physically do something, to physically try to harm them just because you want to teach them a lesson.
Just because you think it's going to make them act better or behave better.
It's absolutely horrible and it's absolutely not something that we should allow to be legal in a progressive society.
But besides that I also think that it's quite bad as far as the values that it's going to ingrain in societies , and in our children, for several reasons: first, because I think that it normalizes violence.
I think that when kids are exposed to spanking at a young age as a means of discipline, it implicates in them the idea that violence is a positive means to get people to do what you want them to do, and that if you physically harm somebody you're going you're going to get results from them.
And it's these kinds of stupid ideologies that make people think that things like torture actually works.
It's these kinds of ideologies that make it think that things like making people suffer is a good way to ultimately make there be more justice in the world and ultimately fix problems in the world.
And those are things that are incredibly bad.
But additionally it's foolish to actually think that these that spanking is actually going to lead to better discipline for kids in most cases.
Because when you physically spanking your kid, it's not like you're actually going to really teach them all that much.
You're likely just going to teach them the hide from you, to lie to you, to deceive you so that way they're going to avoid the problem.
That's the same thing with torture, where people lie because they want the pain to stop.
Like, kids are just going to figure out ways to do what they do but be more deceptive about it, because they're smart and because they want to do things that they're doing that parents don't like.
That's kind of how human nature works.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is that I think there's more effective alternatives.
And those effective alternatives could be things like grounding a kid, not letting them go out and hang out with their friends.
Taking away like an electronic from them.
That's a perfectly acceptable nonviolent way to get your point across and it's equally persuasive and much more humane.
So for all those reasons we should ban spanking.