Suicide should be a criminal offense but not because I think that this is going to be particularly successful in the conventional ways that you look at criminal offenses.
I don't think that having suicide classified as a criminal offense is going to lead to less people may be committing suicide in the like hard terms of deterrence because of fear of the law, and I don't think that this is actually going to really do all that much.
Nor do I really think that people are actually morally worthy of an imprisonment.
I think this is important because it's important to make sure that people who are obviously in like a really bad place, who are suffering from mental illness, need to have treatment.
And sometimes the only way to force people to have treatment is is via criminal offense, because that's one of the only ways you can force people into treatment.
For example if you look at something that's relatively analogous, you look at something like drug addiction.
The only ways that you can get treatment for drug addiction are you either voluntarily commit yourself to a rehabilitation center, or if you get convicted of a drug related call crime a judge can , as either part of your sentence or like can sentence you to treatment in a rehabilitation center, as more of a treatment first model.
And I think that's actually a pretty good way of doing this.
I don't think we should incarcerate people who are guilty of suicide or attempted suicide rather.
You should try to get treatment for them.
And that's incredibly important because particularly when you're talking about mental health and depression, a whole lot of people are faced with the blockade of first, thinking that treatment isn't actually going to work for them, because one of the main factors that leads to you committing suicide is just a sense of hopelessness in your life.
And therefore you're not really gonna look at treatment as a viable option.
And that's a big problem because oftentimes treatment is pretty effective.
If people give it a shot it a lot of data and evidence is supporting that when people are willing to open up to it it works for the most part.
So this can be very helpful in making sure that rather than just like trying to put somebody in prison or things like that, or if they commit suicide they possibly commit suicide again in like a couple of days, a couple of weeks later, you're actually making sure that people are taking proactive steps to actually helping their mental health.
And I also think that that's important because people are oftentimes unwilling to go and get treatment in a lot of ways.
Because when you are willing to commit suicide, when you have such a deep degree of personal hate, that is oftentimes evident in an individual who is willing to take their own life.
These are people who clearly need to be helped and you can't really help them unless it's a criminal offense.
Because it's kind of like a it's like a very basic violation of people's rights and autonomy if you put them into a treatment center for something, unless it's possibly seen as a threat to someone.
And I think that that's rather fair to do because you don't wanna have people committing suicide.
Not necessarily because obviously committing suicide hurts friends and families and things like that, but on like a basic empathetic level, you shouldn't want people to succumb to mental illness and I think that using the using criminal offenses as a way to essentially force people into treatment is a way that can seriously improve a whole lot people's lives.
So for all those reasons suicide should be a criminal offense.