Private education brings more good than harm because it allows parents to make the decisions that are going to be about what's best for their children, and it lets them do what's best for their children.
And additionally, it does more good than harm because I think that a lot of the harms aren't necessarily unique to private education, and there are things that you can get around of if you just set up the system properly.
So, let's start by talking about why public education can be a good thing.
Because recognize that not everyone needs to learn in the same way.
Some people may want their kids to go to a more religious school if they have a deeply deeply religious background and they want to make sure that their kid gets religious understanding, and for obvious reasons states can't do that kind of thing.
Maybe you want to get some kind of more specific vocational school, so like maybe you're going to go to like like a like a high school that was going to specialize in some kind of field or have some kind of specialized program that you wanna learn, because you know what?
These things are important maybe if you do you like some kind of specialized science program or stem program you're more likely to get into the university or college that you want to get into.
Or maybe just simply sometimes the state doesn't necessarily set up the best system.
And you know what?
Parents should have the individual capacity to say: " the state isn't doing its job properly.
I as an individual person cannot just change the system and make the public school better, so I'm not going to sacrifice the future of my child because the state is just not doing these things properly. "
So, any of those reasons, and probably more, are valid reasons why someone may choose not to go to a public school and may wanna send their kids to a private school instead.
So, I think that clearly those are good things because the ability to maximize choice, the ability to make sure that, not just like parents, but like kids are able to get the best education possible that meets the needs that they have, is the best way to ensure that people are happy and that people are actually going to like have their own educational needs given to them.
But additionally I also think that the harms are not necessarily intrinsic to private education.
So when you're talking about things like, for example, maybe the possibility of private education leading to an under-funding of public education, just do other things like make the taxation of it mandatory or have strict requirements in the amount of money that you pay teachers, or the amount of money that you spend on pupils.
All of these kinds of reasonable regulations are a way to make sure that it's not so much a discrete equality in educational access, so much as sometimes public education isn't able to tailor the specific needs of everyone, so it's fine if the private system is able to fill in.
It doesn't necessarily mean that the private system is better, although if it is then that means there's a problem with the public system and you should fix that rather than force people into it before it is fixed, then ultimately you're going to be able to get more betterment for everyone.
So, I think at the end of the day this is the good that is being done because any harm of people being sent to public schools is only because a, it's being implemented poorly or b, because it's being done in like such a way in which it's not actually conducive to the betterment of its people overall.
So for all those reasons very proud to propose.