International recognition of abkhazia and south ossetia are definitely justified.
So, the first thing that we should consider is: why do these people want independence anyway?
Why would anyone want independence?
Cause it's important to note that independence isn't just some easy thing that you ask for, or you push a like you like check a box on a ballot initiative and suddenly you get it.
Independence takes up a ton of political will, it can cost a whole lot of money, there can be huge transition costs associated with the establishment of the new government, there's also a whole lot of instability that's associated with getting independence.
It's not this easy thing to do.
So, given that independence is difficult and it does come with risk, the fact that people want independence so badly is pretty telling.
So, what do I think it's telling about this, and where do I think therefore are like the real reasons why this international recognition is justified?
First, the international recognition is justified because it allows these people to have their own destiny and their own way of choosing how to like spend their money, live their lives, and all of this, which I think is just a right that people should have, and second, I think that it ensurers a freedom from like oppression of the, of people.
Independence prevents as much of an ability for some kind of exterior imperialistic force or whatever to have exert their control over you and your resources, which I think is quite bad.
So, let's talk about like the concept of freedom of control over your own like policy priorities and things like that.
Because recognize that if you're not independent and especially if you are not independent and like your like cultural group is not the majority, then decisions about when to go to war, decisions about how much to spend on education or healthcare, who's going to get more money spent on education or healthcare or investing and things like that, who's going to like invest in like where infrastructure projects or government grants, whether these employment opportunities going to come forth.
All of these things are going to be first and foremost done in a way in which you're not actually going to have the power over these things.
So they're inherently less democratic.
You're not, if you were independent you'd just get to have control over all the spending priorities and things like that, so these are in line with your own values and your own preferences which are first and foremost like more likely to be accurate the more local they are, but secondarily can be like widely different values based on different cultures.
So you can't just assume because you live near someone that this is like a fair way of actually going near these kinds of things.
But in addition to this just being like more democratic and like more representative, this is also better in the way in which it's distributed because keep in mind that like if you have like power over a group and your the group in power, you're going to want to distribute your resources in a way that's going to be better suiting for you.
You're more likely going to see, if you live in a different, if like the like primary control is in one region, you are more likely to see like the investment focusing on that region and you're going to be less likely to therefore see like the fair consideration.
So I think that's bad.
But, additionally I also think that like it's important to note why people are so resistant to independence.
And they're resistant because they're just like greedy.
They're just resistant because they wanna take advantage of natural resources in these places.
They want to take advantage of like like keeping these people down economically so they can take advantage of that cheaper labor.
They want to take advantage of them so like they can like keep discriminating or things like that.
These are grossly illegitimate reasons why you wanna maintain, or like you wanna maintain like your own like international perception of superiority or like you wanna maintain an image of soft power around the world.
I'm sorry.
Those things are not more important than the actual livelihoods of these people, who are being oppressed, the livelihoods of people who aren't actually getting able to decide their own ways of living their lives, and do so democratically.
I think that this is just like the definition of oppression and these are things that the international community should not condone.
And the only reason they wouldn't do so is out of fear or selfishness.
That's not right.
So very proud to propose.