We should ban human cloning because it's not safe and that's really big problem when you're talking about human lives and it's also a threat to humanity in a broader sense, in a macro sense.
So let's start by talking about why cloning is so unsafe.
And the thing about dolly the sheep that was in that's interesting besides the fact that it dolly exists in the first place, is that dolly died after a couple of months of like some kind of disease like dolly didn't last very long and a lot of cloned animals do not last very long and the reason is that because despite the progress that's being made in testing, to some extent, it's still very imperfect when you're talking about cloning another human another another species in its totality.
And if we can't really do it with a lot of animals in perfect way then we definitely shouldn't be risking with humans because unlike when you're cloning an an animal like if you clone a lamb and the lamb maybe fifty percent of the sheep live and fifty percent of them die and that's okay when you're talking about sheep.
But when you're talking about human beings these things have huge consequences and if you bring a being into this world and it dies a couple of like years later or a couple of months later, even of some kind of weird cancer or some kind of strange disease, then you've basically caused suffering to a living sentient being and that's obviously something that's like really, really a big problem.
Not something that you can underemphasize in the same way in which like we wouldn't deem it moral to like essentially like inject some kind of disease into a regularly birthed child that makes him more likely to have problems it's really not fair to do it in cloning because you're basically just doing a procedure to create a child that is more likely to be dangerous.
So that's like a big problem.
But the next thing is that it's also a threat to humanity in a broader sense in a couple of ways.
So while it's tricky to look at this in the short term because things like evolution happen over a macro sense, a lot of ways this undermines the basis of life in that the reason why human beings exist is because of evolution.
Human beings exist because they evolved a lot of good traits, like opposable thumbs, like having good brains, things like that that like are things that you evolve over time.
They don't happen at once.
And cloning essentially eliminates the ability to actually have evolution because when you're just cloning something you're creating something that's absolutely identical.
That's like that's why like with asexual reproduction you don't really get like a whole lot of a difference there cause you're creating exact identical copies.
But when you're talking about like natural mating, the crossing of two different species, you create more of an opportunity for evolution to happen, for mutations to happen, because you're not allowing a simple clone to exist.
But beyond that I also think that this has impacts for the importance of genetic diversity cause especially when there's like a risk of like like we see this with crop failures, where when every crop is of the exact same species and some kind of disease comes in, all of the crop dies because there's no genetic diversity and that's like one of the big reasons why genetic diversity is important.
It makes a species as a whole strong.
So like in a time where there is like risk of like bioengineered like bio weapons maybe or like accidental release of like a mutated diseases or things like that having like genetic diversity in a human population is like a pretty important thing.
But the final thing is that it's not really necessary to have human cloning in this sense because alternatives are sufficient.
Therapeutic cloning is fine if you want to clone a lung, if you want to clone a liver, something then that's fine you can do that, that's different.
And also you can just have organ donors, you can have in vitro fertilization, there's like there's a lot of alternatives to reproduction besides cloning that people can use if they can't reproduce naturally.
So for all those reasons we should keep banning cloning.