We should abolish three strikes laws because three strikes laws are horrible from a principal perspective, and they have very like catastrophic practical outcomes as well.
So let's start by talking about why on a principled level three strikes laws are just flat out immoral.
And the biggest reason why they're immoral goes to the immorality of the criminal justice system itself as it exists.
The criminal justice system incentivizes, it essentially forces people who offend one time into recidivism.
And it and it does this because first, prisons do absolutely nothing for rehabilitation.
All they do is punish people and make their lives worse.
Once you get out of prison, you're locked out of most abilities to get jobs, you're not able to vote, you're not able to rely on public housing in most cases, you're not allowed to get public sector jobs in a lot of cases, you're not allowed to get publicly subsidized healthcare or welfare in a lot of cases.
So basically what you do is you get convicted of one crime and the system leaves you behind.
It makes it impossible for you to get a whole lot of work, oftentimes if you're a convicted criminal your license gets suspended, so you're not even able to drive to work or, it's it's like even if you get a job it's harder for you got to work.
The degree and the extent to which we put up roadblocks to people who get convicted is absolutely abhorrent in this country.
And that's a big deal.
Because all those roadblocks to be put up for people reintegrating back into society when they get convicted of a crime, means that there's really not a whole lot of options for them.
And that's why recidivism rates are sky high in places like america.
And that's why we're not really seeing meaningful progress and reform to our criminal justice system.
And that's not even talking about the fact how racist they are and about how three strikes laws overwhelmingly target african americans and other minorities.
So this is a huge problem, because the result of this is that three strikes laws create a way to permanently keep people in prison for minor offenses, for minor felonies.
And they overwhelmingly do it to minorities, and it overwhelmingly happens to people who never had much of a choice to not convict more to not commit more crimes, because they were put in a position by society where that's the only option for them.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is why on a practical level this is a really stupid idea too.
And the number one reason why that's true is because as a result of these policies in places like california it's led to skyrocketing overcrowding in prisons.
Overcrowding to the extent that courts have found that that overcrowding is unconstitutional because it creates a poor living conditions for the people in prisons.
And this is a horrible thing.
Because you're first of all wasting a whole ton of money on prisons.
All of the amount of money that goes into maintaining prisons, paying for prisoners and things like that, is money that you can pay for literally anything else.
You could burn the money and you would be doing more good to society, but but you could also just affirmatively spend it on something better.
But moreover, we're not really talking about people who we even need to put in prison for the most part.
Keep in mind if you commit like murder, or like like a series of armed robberies or rape or things like that, like truly horrible crimes, you're probably going to be imprisoned for decades and decades anyway, because those crimes are so severe.
When you're talking about three strikes laws, the people who commit a crime, get out of prison and can commit a crime again, you're usually talking about people involved in the drug industry.
So you're talking about people who are drug trafficking, people who may just be possessing people who may just be charged with like just simply the possession of drugs, while like but like they keep getting picked up over and over again, because they're minorities.
Or people who commit like more minor offenses.
Those are those tend to be the people who are in prison under these reasons, and that's why there's so much overcrowding.
And that's a horrible problem.
Because a lot of these crimes aren't all that bad for people anyway.
They're things that we shouldn't be criminalizing in the first place, they're things that are absolutely a waste of money, and for all those reasons we should abolish three strikes laws.