We should not bother banning child actors for three big reasons.
First, because I think that children are still people and can still make basic decisions about their lives.
Second, because I think that we would have an important loss in narratives and like quality of television without child actors, and that's like meaningful.
And third, because I think that banning this is just too extreme, you can just regulate instead, and it's fine.
Maybe regulate it better, that's regulators fault or people being abusive's fault.
That's not like the system itself being broken fundamentally.
So, let's start by talking about choice.
Like a lot of kids like acting, there's a reason why a lot of kids do it with their own free time.
And a lot of kids do it recreationally, because it's something that is like fun to do, it's fun to like put your like put yourself in another person's shoes, put on a performance and things like that.
A lot of people enjoy that, that's why people do it.
If you're exceptionally good at it, I see no reason why you shouldn't get paid for it.
If you are a young person who is exceptionally talented as an actor or an actress, I see no reason why you shouldn't be able to make money off those kinds of goods, in the same way as anyone else is able to make money off those goods.
You are providing a service to people, you maybe even enjoy doing that, you should be able to profit off that if you want to, that's all fine.
But, I additionally think that it's important to note that we would be having a big loss in society as far as narratives are concerned, if you ban child actors.
What do I mean by this?
Whenever you turn on almost any TV show, you're likely going to see children in them, and it's important because you want your television, you want your movies and your culture to be representative of culture, so it would be very very strange if you had like a bunch of adults playing children, or a bunch of teenagers playing young children, or things like that, or you didn't include children.
Like this is important from every perspective, like children watch TV and they oftentimes like like seeing children on TV, or older people can like relate to children as well, like maybe they're taking care of children or things like that, and the the TV show it's about like a family or something like that.
Like a lot of these touch our like basic humanistic narratives, and these things get lost if you're not going to have children as actors in television.
But finally, there's the issue of extremeness here, and I think that a ban is very very extreme in that you can just regulate things effectively.
So, a lot of the regulations that we already have in place sound good, regulations to make sure that parents aren't able to steal this money, and that the children have rights and control over this money.
Things like making sure children are still getting educated, things like making sure children don't have overly excessive working hours.
All these are good regulations, you just need to make sure that they're actually getting conducted.
This means having stronger federal and or state level enforcement of these things, making sure that you have compliance officers that can be present at TV like TV shooting sets or things like that.
All of these are very plausible regulations to put in place, many of them are in place, you just have to execute them better.
There's no reason why you have to ban this outright.
So and like lose all of the obvious benefits that come from this.
So, for all those reasons, we should not ban child actors.