Feminism absolutely brings more good than harm, first and foremost because feminism is absolutely vital in making sure that women are actually treated equally, and remaining gender gaps that do exist are eliminated.
Second, feminism is important because it helps empower women, and it helps make women feel more included in society and more connected with society, and third, I really don't think that feminism has a downside except it takes power away from men that they probably shouldn't unjustly they like unjustly acquired in the first place, from like historical like structures and things like that, or men are just like stupid in some cases and don't realize that these things don't even affect them all that much.
So, let's start by talking about the practical ways in which feminism makes lives better for women.
Obviously, feminism isn't something that's just outdated.
Just because women have the right to vote doesn't mean that they have full rights.
Women still struggle for things like equal pay, they struggle for things like in america like paid parental leave, they struggle against like the acceptance of like sexual, and acceptance or understanding of sexual assault or sexual violence, they struggle against their bodies being regulated with abortion regulations, they struggle with access to like healthcare and contraception, they suffer from like employment discrimination in the workplace, possibly on the base of their body or the like subjective evaluation of their skills being lesser.
All of these things are like very very prominent and very very damaging to women, and what feminism does is it provides a bulwark to like fight against these things.
What feminism does is like it provides like an organizational structure that you can like push for ground like you can push for like legal rights and things like that, so you can have things like the ACLU women's rights project, or planned parenthood organizations.
Feminism creates like a like a support or a unification for these kinds of organized pushes, which do lead to expansion of these rights, and that's important, it helps like you do all those things.
It also leads to women being inspired to like speak out on a lot of these things, so it's just going to be more likely to be grounds going to support all these things.
It also leads to increased awareness, and increased awareness is very important because having awareness of stigmas, having awareness of saxist stereotypes like like the way like is one of the best ways in which you can actually ensure that women aren't going to be like arbitrarily excluded, or to make sure that you actually listen to the concerns that women have on very sensitive issues, like sexual violence or things like that.
It can make sure that women have equal access to things like healthcare, it can ensure that broad whites rights for women are also considered.
Besides all of that, feminism is very important from an empowerment perspective, because I think that the idea that there is like like there is like an entire ideology associated with the empowerment of women is just by itself empowering.
It makes it that women are going to feel more comfortable trying to like go out and succeed in school, the workplace, or even like the basic relationships through their lives.
Because it rather than being told that like your gender is something that makes you lesser, or something that you have to be ashamed of, it creates a sense of empowerment and a sense of solidarity, and these are things that can be incredibly important with women.
It creates like a system of role models that you can look up to, it creates a system of like like values that you can aspire for.
All these things are very very good.
But finally, I think that feminism can bring more good than harm because like, even if you don't buy there's all that much good, like you need to show that there is harm in order to outweigh this, and I don't really think that feminism actually has any harms.
Like the nature of feminism is that they want to ensure equal rights for women, so unless you want their rights to be unequal, which is just like oppressive, inhumane in every conceivable way, then there's no real way to get around that.
So that's for all those reasons, feminism brings more good than harm.