The internet definitely brings more good than harm, for a few big reasons: first, because the internet is an absolute miracle, in the way in which it allows expanded access to information, and expanded ways in which you can communicate with each other, and how quickly you can communicate with each other in easily, but in addition to those being fundamentally good, the internet is also incredibly good from a financial perspective.
It makes just about everything cheaper, and easier, to do in your lives, and it creates an entire sector of an economy in advanced technologies.
So, let's talk about these things.
First, let's talk about information.
I think that, it's obvious that the internet brings incredible opportunities for information.
First and foremost, the ease of access of that information, rather than having to possibly go to various distant locations, trying to track down text, in order to find what you're looking for.
The internet allows you to have a centralized data base, that you can use to try to access information.
So, whether it's whether you're trying to like research a policy, or learn about historical event, or a movement, or anything of the sort, it's going to be that much easier, because you're now going to have almost infinite information you can find, like academic research about things, journalistic articles about things, what people are saying, blogs, those are all different ways in which you can find out information.
So, I think that that makes you a lot smarter, and it makes you a lot more educated, because it's a lot easier to access answers.
And, that's also good from a socio economic perspective, because rather than having to pay for a lot of these resources, paying for a lot of these books, and things like that, a lot of these things are free, and it allows information be more easily accessed by a lot more people in society.
But, there is additionally the benefits of communication.
You're able to keep in touch with people better that may live somewhere far away, you're better able to communicate your ideas with people, you're better able to organize like social movements, and political movements, because you're better able to communicate ideas across like large groups of people, it lets you more easily interact with people from far away places and other cultures, because the internet makes the illusions of it makes distance much more of an illusion.
I think it also just let's communication happen a whole lot more quickly, which is great in terms of being able to just like get your points across quickly, actually keeping like a better sense of closeness and contact with people.
But, finally I think that, a lot of these things also have an incredibly good impact on businesses.
So, being more able to access information, or being able to better like spread your ideas, maybe in academic community, those are just like examples of ways, in which the internet can help economies grow, because the spread of ideas, and the spread of information greater access of all these things, are some of the bigger driving forces in the economy.
But additionally, the internet also creates its own business, because it creates an entire sector of an economy that, people work in.
So you have like programmers, you have people who like sell computer products, develop hardware, develop software, marketing, like there's all kinds of things that people do for the internet, innovators.
And, this is incredibly important, because the internet revolves around a way of innovating new products to improve people's lives, there's a whole lot of like jobs in there, w whole lot of economic benefits, and profits that are being made from the internet.
So, a lot of these things also result in just cheaper goods overall, things that make people's lives easier, or cheaper, and those are all incredibly important things to recognize, incredibly important benefits.
But, finally, I don't really think that the harms of the internet are all that unique to the internet.
A lot of these things can be checked, by maybe like regulating like the quality of content online, if you're worried about like fake news or something like that, or cyber bullying, or trolling, or things like that.
A lot of the harms of the internet can be checked, as long as you properly regulate it and responsibly make sure that , things aren't going poorly.
So, for all of those reasons, I definitely think that the internet does more good than harm.