We should allow school uniforms and should encourage them to exist for two big reasons: first first, because school uniforms are incredibly helpful and necessary for more disadvantaged or poor people that attend public schools and secondarily, while this may be counterintuitive, school uniforms can actually encourage creativity and ensure that there's not a ubiquity of culture in what is going to be worn.
So, first, why do we think that school uniforms are good for poor people?
The most direct reason the first and direct reason of this is an obvious one: that you can't have government programs that can subsidize the funding of school uniforms for people to exist.
This is a major problem because one of the biggest reasons why a whole lot of people don't often go to school in lower-income communities is because they feel embarrassed or insecure about going to school when they have to wear a shirt that's two sizes too big or they're not able to wear shoes or they haven't been able to wash their clothes for several days.
All of these things are much more likely to happen when you force people to have their own sources of clothing that they have to pay for on their own.
Now, when school uniforms exist, it's much easier to have government programs that can subsidize them and this means that people are therefore gonna be more likely to attend school in a lot of ways because they don't have to be worried about immediately looking like they don't fit in.
That's, like, a very elemental concern that people have and that could lead to a reason.
So, attendance can be boosted by this at school which is incredibly important for ensuring that people just get a better education.
But this also has, I think, a more indirect effect on how it hurts people because what this essentially creates is when you don't have school uniforms, what this essentially allows is the monopolization of what the, like, ideal standards of beauty should be based on essentially what money could buy and what you're likely going to see are you're going to see, like, people in the school that are more financially well-off are going to essentially set like, essentially like, show off their fashion trends and show off like, like, how they look in certain ways and this ultimately creates a culture of, like, this is how, like, you should be able to dress and this could be very exclusionary for a whole lot of people who don't necessarily have the, like, social funds in order to do this.
What this essentially does is it entrenches a very basic social divide in that you're going to see, based on how people dress, that they're going to, like, be of, like, a different class, something that I think is, like, quite bad and can be alienating for a whole lot of people in society.
But the second thing that I wanna talk about is that I actually think that school uniforms can be helpful for creativity and this is true for a very nuanced reason.
So, obviously so, obviously, there's going to be on the margins without with school uniforms not existing, you're going to have on the margins people more willing to express their creativity, but I actually think that when school uniforms don't exist because people are going to want to fit in, people are still going to want to dress in rather similar ways, and this is for, like, two reasons: first and foremost because people just take social cues from other people, they're more likely going to want to dress from people they look up to or people they think are cooler, but we also think that people are going to want to dress a certain way in order to avoid bullying or targeting based on how they feel.
In other words, school isn't necessarily a very safe environment for a whole lot of people to experiment in the way in which they wear clothes, so we would argue that a much safer environment which people do experiment in how they wear clothes is in their own, more private circles, when they're out with friends or when they're going to, like, a social gathering, something that isn't necessarily linked to school.
They're probably gonna be in a more safe environment when they're more likely to be around just their friends and people they know.
And I think that the result of this is that when there's a lack of school uniforms because people don't aren't probably going to own, like, multiple sets of outfits for the same kinds of things, people are gonna be more likely to experiment with the clothing that they wear and express themselves with the clothing that they wear in their own individual social circles outside of school, so I don't actually think that school uniforms are going to hurt creativity and I actually think that what's more likely to happen is it creates more ubiquity in a people a way people are expected to dress in a lot of ways.
So, for all of those reasons, I think that school uniforms are good and we should have them.