The right to internet access should not be protected because you don't actually have a right to access the internet.
Let's be very clear about what is a right and what isn't a right.
A right is something that is a very basic and essential part to your existence.
You have a right to food, you have a right to a to some kind of housing, you have a right to healthcare, you have a right to do things like express your opinions dissent from the government, things like that.
Things that are very basic and elemental parts of fabric of society.
Things that you don't have a right to are things that just make your life easier and that's basically what the internet does.
In this day and age it's very easy to confuse the internet as something that's essentially a necessity because for most of us the internet is necessary in a lot of ways.
It's necessary because of the fact that we're used to it and it's because the primary means of us communicating and the like.
But at the end of the day the internet is not something that we can't live without.
The internet is just something that makes our lives easier for things that we already have.
If we want to communicate with people without the internet there's other options.
You can use phones, you can talk to people in person there is other ways in which you can communicate with people.
If you want to have information, books are available, there is public libraries there's all there's there's a lot of alternates to the internet.
The internet doesn't really provide you with anything unique in that regard.
So I think that the the next thing that's important is looking at this from a opportunity cost in that it's not a zero sum in that like you can just give people their right to internet access and this isn't going to impact anything else because the reality is that facilitating a right to internet access isn't cheap because accessing the internet could be something that's like pretty expensive you're doing it efficaciously.
And the reason for that is because you need to have like a decent amount of infrastructure in place to access the internet like you need to set up like wifi infrastructure across like possibly millions of people or you need to put like like some kind of cable lines, you need to give them like you need to get people like routers, modems you need to give people a device to use you need to make sure that people have options if like devices break or something goes wrong.
And all of these things in order for this to be a right would have to be covered by the government, and that's like I think a problem because these things are very expensive and when you think about it's not like we're perfectly providing for most people's rights as is it's not like there isn't food insecurity across the world and even in america, it's not like people have difficulty accessing affordable housing, it's not like people don't get oppressed in other ways like politically people there's all different kinds of ways in which people's rights get violated in much more important ways and the most basic one is that like like you can just like give like people better access to like educational resources or anything like that like there's a whole different slew of ways in which money could be better spent limited money better spent than on just trying to facilitate a right to internet access.
So for all those reasons, we shouldn't protect the right to internet access.