We absolutely should abolish the US electoral college because the US electoral college is basically the definition of an archaic anti democratic institution that's absolutely awful and that has robbed democrats and has robbed the people of their rightful president in two elections now in the past like decades which is very very bad.
So let's start by talking about why the electoral college is is bad in principle.
The basic principle of democracy is that people deserve an equal say in the way in which they're governed because the only way in which a government can actually be legitimate the only way in which a government can actually restrict the rights of its people can take the money from its people can force its people into various kinds of service various follow various kinds of laws the only way in which governments actually get any kind of legitimacy to do that is because people agree that they're having this government is something that is necessary and this government is something that they consented and that's really the basic principle of democracy and what's underlying that is that everyone gets an equal say in the process because that's the way in which you can actually get the like a fair delivered about them.
So the big problem with this is that the electoral college in the united states is if any is anything but fair in that regard because there is at least like three ways off the top of my head that actually results in the electoral college being anti democratic.
First and foremost it unfairly advantages people in rural areas versus people who are in cities.
And this is obviously absolutely ludicrous like just because you live in rural montana as opposed to downtown boston doesn't mean that you are any less affected by government policy if anything you're probably more affected by a lot of government policies.
It doesn't mean that you're any and it certainly doesn't mean that you have any less of a legitimate claim to exerting your influence over the government and yet the electoral college is set up in such a way in which it makes your vote lesser just because you happen to live in a city instead of a rural location.
Even more perniciously if you live in a sea a so called safe state so for democrats that could be a place like massachusetts.
For republicans it can be a place like mississippi which is always going to vote for republicans.
Your votes aren't really going to matter and your votes don't matter because really if you show up to vote or if you don't show up to vote at the end of the day the margins don't matter because you're either going to win the state or not going to win the state it's not really proportional so you don't get like a proportion of votes except you don't get a proportion of votes based off of like how much you win by or things like that.
It's winner takes all so if you win by five votes or if you win by ten million votes it doesn't really make much of a difference which means that all of the people who are in more populated states so states like california a lot of their votes even if they're overwhelmingly voting for one candidate most of their votes don't matter and that's absolutely ridiculous like just because you happen to live in like new hampshire or ohio or florida doesn't mean that you should have as an individual person any more of a say than someone who lives in new york or california or places like that.
But finally it's also an it's an inherently elitist institution.
The idea that rather than just letting the people based on the popular vote pick who their leader should be and instead you're going to resort to some archaic system that's going to try to like control the masses and things like that it's absolutely ridiculous and it's a direct way in which you try to limit the power of the actual people and really a way to limit it like to ultimately to a trends like conservative power and very harmful ways.
So for all those reasons we should abolish the electoral college.