Assisted suicide should absolutely not be a criminal offense.
I think that people have a right to die, people have the right to value their life and the longevity of it, and the quality of it, in the way in which they choose to do so, and criminalizing that is absolutely immoral and wrong.
So, before I get into the arguments though, I want to talk about a model of what I think to that has to look like.
Cause by assisted suicide, obviously we're already talking about physician assisted suicide, but I think it's important to note that, this isn't something that this isn't a system that, obviously, we want to be abused argh, or without regulation.
So, I think that it's important to note on opposition, that we're defending a system where there are going to be checks, to make sure that the diseases by which people are doing this or are terminal, arm so that way they're actually near the end of their life, or it would be like a terminal illness, something that they have to live with forever, something that would cause real hardship, real pain, something that doesn't affect their rationale to make the decision, so if someone gets like, maybe alzheimers, or dementia, we wouldn't want them to be making these kinds of decisions, and checking against other forms of coercion like that, making sure that they're legally like capable of all these things, and that doctors are willing to do so, all of those are important checks that we envision being in place.
But with that said, I don't think that we be can override, once those checks are in place, the core principle of what this is a debate about.
Because, this is a debate about what people should amm, when people should be getting to end their life.
And I think that, it's important to recognize that the length of a life, or the quality of a life, are inherently subjective, and inherently tied to the individual person.
Whether or not someone wants their life to be longer, or of a higher quality, in the sense that maybe you're going to live longer, if you don't have assisted suicide, but the last year of your life is going to be one filled with immense pain and immense suffering, not being able to really do all the things that you love about actually living, then it's reasonable to question whether or not that's a life worth living, and that's ultimately an incredibly personal question, and one that individuals should have the right to make if they want to make that decision.
And it's also important to note that, this is happening at an eh at a uniquely important time, a uniquely vulnerable time for these people, because when you're at the like, last possibly the last few months of your life, last two years of your life, you don't want those memories, you don't want the end of your life, it's very reasonable to not want the end of your life to be one that is filled with pain, one filled with like, with like depression and unhappiness, in addition to a deteriorating health.
These could be very important things that you don't want to do.
You may have immense financial obligations as a result of keeping your health alive, and that may not be amm something that you want to impose on your loved ones, on your family, and you may be at peace with your decision to die, if you're very old.
These are all like reasonable things, and they're like very important and personal decisions that we need to be aware of.
I think that you don't want to have the government regulating things are so personal, because these aren't choices that are really affecting anyone else, these are decisions that people are making with a whole reasonable sense of mind.
So, I think that the principles of choice, the principles of freedom, and the principles of like liberty in those sense, it should apply to making such a personal choice about the way in which you live your life.
So, for all of those reasons assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.