We should not abolish attorney client privilege because attorney-client privilege is absolutely essential to ensuring that trials are fair, that they're accurate, and that the rights of defendants are or people that are a party to some kind of legal proceeding are having their rights protected to have counsel.
So obviously the right to an attorney is something that is pretty valuable and that like all western democracies have this kind of right in some way.
America obviously has it.
They have it and it exists to the extent where the government has an obligation to provide one for you if you can't afford one.
But even on top of that, beyond simply having counsel, you also have a right to effective counsel because the reality is that simply having the attorney isn't all that helpful if the attorney can't actually do their job and represent you to the best of their abilities.
And the way in which that and in order for that to happen, it's required that you have privilege for a few reasons.
First and foremost because without attorney-client privilege, people aren't going to feel comfortable talking to their attorneys.
People are going to feel like attorneys may turn them in or give information on them up or something like that.
And that means they're not going to be willing to point out possible witnesses in their defense, possible individuals you're not going to want to make any statements to their attorney you're not going to want to provide attorneys with any records or documents and the reason for that because in the same way in which you don't really want to make statements or a direct like investigators on like the other side to people because even if you think that these may be exculpatory, the reality is that oftentimes the more you say there's a possibility that those things could be used against you.
And I think that what will happen is there will be a fear and there'll especially be a fear because the people who usually are able to assuade your fears the people who you're able to like feel comfortable and talk to in confidence is your attorney but now you can't do that.
So you're probably not going to want to talk to your attorney about all that much, but I also think that additionally this is compounded by the fact that you don't necessarily have to have an attorney voluntarily give up information on you in order for it to be damning because once the privilege is eliminated you could essentially subpoena attorneys, you could force them to testify like things like self incrimination are protected but certainly it's not protected to incriminate other people.
You would be able to like subpoena attorneys, ask them put them on the stand and ask them if they made any statements, if there's any evidence of the that there possibly complicit in something and even if it's speculative or to some extent these are all things that could end up coming out of trial and it can make it jobs a whole lot difficult but also means that you're not going to be able to as adequately defend.
And I also ultimately think this is actually going to lead to less accurate proceedings which is basically the point of the trial in the first place.
To to arrive at the truth because each side is going to present their best case and now this incentivizes suppressing information.
So since you're incentivized as a defendant to suppress information, then you're not actually going to be helping justice because there's less likely to be an accurate outcome found out.
So for all those reasons, we should not abolish attorney-client privilege.