Surrogates you should be banned because of the harmful impacts that it has on women.
It has the course of nature of a surrogacy contract and secondarily, it's bad because it deters people who can't conceive normally who are going to be using surrogacy.
It deters them from adopting and that's just a much more preferable option that they should be doing anyway.
So let's start by talking about the course of nature of this and I think that this is really important because when you're agreeing to be a surrogate for somebody you are necessarily going to be in a pretty vulnerable position.
You are going to have a lot of like your like fundamental aspects of like your like lifestyle are going to change as a result of being pregnant, and that's because pregnancy exerts a substantial burden on women.
It's a substantial burden to be pregnant.
So I think that when you're going to try to create almost an occupation of people doing this, this is going to be incredibly bad.
It's going to coerce people to have just like keep having babies for other people at the expense of getting other more like lasting jobs which I think is not very good.
I also think that additionally it's important to talk about how this is going to deter people from adopting and that's just more moral option.
So why are why do people typically request a surrogate or try to get a surrogate?
It's because they might not be able to conceive themselves.
So I think that there's a problem here because I think that it's quite clear that adopting is probably the more moral option than naturally conceiving and the reason for this is because when you talk about people who are in adoption they're oftentimes incredibly disadvantaged.
They have a lot less support.
They can be in like overcrowded and underfunded foster care systems.
They're not going to get the individual attention and support that they need to like oftentimes succeed in life, and there's oftentimes just too many of them, and I think that this is important because when you conceive naturally instead you're contributing to this problem.
So when you use so instead of having a surrogate you could adopt and therefore you can keep incentivize people to do that.
The final thing that I want to talk about is that I often think that this is going to be not necessarily the safest thing, and I think that oftentimes this is done in like cause it's very difficult to enforce.
It's very difficult to regulate this constantly.
It can often times be dangerous because pregnancy can lead to complications for women.
It could lead to complications for the mother.
It could lead to some health problems and that's important because I think that that's something that is like a hazard enough reason that we don't need to allow people to do that.
So for all of those reasons very proud to propose this ban.