We should absolutely increase gun control because first, guns are responsible for hordes of deaths, guns kill and they're incredibly bad.
Second, because guns are absolutely unnecessary, and third because you don't have any kind of right to a gun whatsoever, you shouldn't have any kind of right to a gun and guns are awful.
So first, why do I think that guns are just like incredibly bad for society?
I think that the data and the scientific studies on this like, and the research on this shows that guns clearly lead to more deaths in society when they're more widely available.
The reason why like a lot of violence is a lot less extreme in places that have stricter gun controls around the world is because when you have a lot of access to guns, first you're just obviously going to have more people who shouldn't have guns being able to find guns so this gives people who may be like unstable or this could lead to people who are just like bad people being more likely to get a gun, which means that they can just do more damage they can kill more people and that's going to be bad.
But I think that additionally, when there's more of a social acceptance of gun when there's more of a social norm of guns existing, and just more people in society have guns, you're going to be more likely seeing people be trigger happy.
So you're going to be seeing everyone from like police officers being more likely to shoot people because they're going to be worried about getting shot themselves.
There's all other kinds of factors that stem from a proliferation of guns in society.
It means that guns are just going to be more likely to be used because guns have more of an acceptance and that people have more of a fear of guns if they don't like use guns themselves.
These are like basic things that are reasons why there's so many documented gun deaths in places like the united states.
, but there's also like a lot of tragedies like like less are on the broad level and more on the more micro level.
There's a lot of specific tragedies or associated with guns as well and this is because on the like more like specific policy level, the way in which gun control like would work is that you can try try to regulate guns to some extent, but whenever someone like has a gun they're able to kill possibly a lot of people very quickly and it can be difficult to respond to that.
Because you can't watch everyone, you can't guard everywhere this is just, I mean that's impossible.
So it makes it so much easier.
When guns are around it makes it so much easier for people to do harm to other people.
But the next thing I wanna talk about is about why guns are just simply unnecessary.
So, like like there's two reasons why people think guns are important.
First because of sports and second because of self defense.
So first sport: I think sport is literally a ridiculous excuse.
If guns just like cause a lot of harm to people.
If they cause a whole lot of people to die in society then that's like a good enough reason to to like ban a sport.
That's like, This is ridiculous.
So, self defense: maybe a bit more legitimate, it's a shame that it doesn't actually have any kind of semblance of like coherent value whatsoever, and the first reason for that is because you're more likely to like hurt yourself if you have a gun for self defense, you're more likely going to use it in an accident when you should have, or maybe your child is going to use it as in an accident because they get into your gun, or your more likely to like shoot yourself with your gun or things like that, because you may not be able to use it properly, or someone else at your house, there's like a lot of data that shows that you're morally we're going to have like a gun being the source of an accident than actually save anyone.
But additionally I also think that like most guns you don't even need for self defense.
Like, a lot of guns that you can get, like hunting rifles or like to like likes or like sniper rifles, or like machine guns or even a semi automatic weapon, any of these kinds of guns that like have high capacity magazines that can kill people from far distances or or a lot of people in a concentrated area at once.
Like unless you're getting invaded by like a unless your home is getting invaded by a small army, you don't actually need these things for self defense.
So, there's also just like this over like hype like this is like this way overpowering of guns that are being allowed to be accessed by people so for all these reasons we should definitely increase gun control.