We should subsidize single parents because single parents are often in incredibly bad situations through no fault of their own and they deserve our sympathy and our support.
So I want to start by talking about why single parents are often in the situation that they're in.
By and large it's accidental pregnancies amongst people who aren't ready to have children and that could be for a variety of reasons.
It could maybe be that they didn't have access to birth control because of financial reasons, it could have been that their family prevented them from getting access to birth control, or for religious reasons.
The same could be true of something like an abortion in a lot of parts of the world especially in certain places in america getting an abortion can be prohibitive, it can be expensive, it can be incredibly far away, it can be there could be a huge amount of legal restrictions that make it difficult logistically to get an abortion.
Oftentimes people don't want to stay together to support a child because maybe people had sex for fun but they weren't ready for a baby which is something that happens literally all the time.
There's all kinds of reasons why people can be single parents and that's important because the common thread is that people don't usually do this by choice.
It's something that is an accident and they're probably in that situation because of the way society's structured and the way society privileges certain people that makes it more likely that some people are going to be single parents than others given resource disparities.
So given all that's true, why does it just makes sense to subsidize single parents on a moral level and a practical level?
Obviously it makes sense to subsidize parents because having to support a family if you're not ready for that is hugely burdensome.
It can make it harder for you to hold down a job, it can make it harder for you to do all kinds of things, and it's also a drain on your resources as well so obviously as a parent it can be incredibly difficult for you.
But we want to make sure that we're supporting kids as well.
If there is anyone who really has no fault of where they're born it's like it's kids kids don't have control over where they're born, it's not their fault if their parents if they grew up in a loving household with like every kind of privilege imaginable or with two parents with a lot of money or if it's a household where you have one person who's trying as hard as they can to support their family but simply can't do it and it could lead to maybe children going hungry or not be able to get access to healthcare things like that.
You want to make sure that kids are getting taken care and that's why you need to make sure that you have subsidies there as well.
But finally it's good for society.
You want to make sure that you have people who grow up so because like there's all kinds of things whether it's like possibly getting seduced to join a gang because you don't see career prospects going anywhere because or maybe you're desperate for more money because you need to put food on the table or something like that or maybe it's just because there's like a lot of really intelligent people who don't get access to the same kinds of like schooling as other people who may not have the money to afford like a certain like education or other kinds of activities they simply get left behind in society.
So for all those reasons it just makes sense for everybody if we subsidize single parents.