We should allow fracking because fracking is an incredibly useful tool and it's a rather effective way to get energy, at least in the short term while we're still in the early stages of green and sustainable technologies.
And when you're looking on the comparative, since a lot of green technologies simply aren't feasible and realistic right now, you need to look at this discussion as a comparison between fracking and between other kinds of sources.
So like coal mining or importing oil from like the middle east, or or oil drilling in the gulf of mexico for example.
And I think that fracking is often better than all the things.
So first and foremost fracking is cheap.
Fracking is oftentimes a whole lot cheaper than other alternatives, which is great.
And the reason for that comes from a lot of varieties: first of all fracking can often be done in america so that means that it's closer, you have to cut you can cut out transportation costs, it happens in abundance, there and it also happens in like and because it's still like a like a non renewable energy, there's a lot of like economies of scale in place that still make it really cheap.
Secondarily it's it's abundant as well.
Whether it's like north dakota or pennsylvania or other places, there's a whole lot of areas that are right for fracking, and this can give us a whole lot of access to oil resources in a time where oil production is likely going to start to decrease in more conventional means.
And that's obviously something that's very important if you wanna make sure that we still have the capability to use oil as we need it.
Additionally we shouldn't undersell the value of of having our own reliance on of being like dependent on only ourselves for technology, for being depend on only ourselves for oil and energy as opposed to having to be dependent on the middle east.
Because this allows foreign actors to exert more control over US policy, because if they don't like something that they're doing they can try to hike up oil prices, they can use that at least as leverage or as a bargaining tool in negotiations for favorable deals or agreements, all of these things make it so that it's a whole lot better when you're dependent on your own supply of energy.
Because you don't want to have such an important vital sector of your economy be in the hands of actors who may not necessarily have your interests at heart.
The next thing that I would argue is that I think this is oftentimes preferable , in terms of environmental damage, to other alternatives.
So like obviously it's not great for the environment when you're injecting like chemicals into the grounds of north dakota to extract things, but at the very least, I still think that that's probably better than like say drilling for oil in the gulf of mexico.
Because at least if you're doing it in like a landed area, in like the mountains, or more isolated location in pennsylvania, or or north dakota or something like that, at the very least it has less of an opportunity for like spill over and problems like that.
Like you're not going to have to worry about like doing these kinds of things in the ocean, in the gulf of mexico, where there's a risk for huge oil spills that are like literally catastrophes for wildlife.
We are oftentimes going to see this be much better off for the environment on a comparative level for that extent.
But also we've been destroying the environment in america for for generations and I don't think this is going to make it meaningfully all that much worse.
So for all those reasons, we should allow fracking.