We should not further exploit geothermal energy because there's better alternatives for green technology and there's an opportunity cost in investment which is incredibly important.
So let's bring some context for this.
I think by and large we should focus our investments into solar energy as the most preferable form of green technology, for several reasons in which it's directly better than geothermal energy.
The first of which is that geothermal energy often can require some kind of alteration of underground.
So like because you're trying to harness underground energy.
Whether it's like hot steam vents or things like that, necessarily like creating factories around this or creating like turbines and possibly even like putting like machinery underground for whatever purposes can already have some kind of environmentally destructive effect.
It can result in destroying habitats and it can also possibly lead to alterations, because the natural release of underground energy is important oftentimes for making sure that like that there's no build up of like pressure underground, which can possibly cause some kind of like really like bad release of that energy all at once, like I think that there could be some consequences.
But solar energy is just generally going to be cheaper and easier to use.
Most places in america don't have like sufficient levels of geothermal activity where it would really make sense to do this.
But the sun is pretty much everywhere.
Like people may have varying levels of sunlight sometimes of the year, but by and large especially when if you like focus on one kind of technology where you can use economies of scale to and like focused investments, so that way like a given kind of technology is as developed as possible.
Solar energy will probably be the cheapest and easiest to use.
It definitely gonna be the most widely acceptable because most places need sunlight of some kind.
And it's also probably going to be easier to use because you can just already put it on a lot of things in a more decentralized location, which will be more energy efficient.
You can have solar panels on your roofs.
You can put them on tops of cars, you can put solar panels beside streets or in parking lots.
It would simply be a lot more versatile, which means that that's going to be good.
And it will also be really helpful in terms of like a solid energy infrastructure and a more solid energy grid.
A big problem that you have right now is if some kind of natural disaster hits you see like entire broad areas losing power and losing a lot of things that come with it.
Basic refrigeration, air conditioning, heating and all other kinds of like possibly really important equipment.
And if you have a decentralized grid that's a whole lot better because if like some solar panels are getting messed up, that's more likely only going to affect like a smaller range rather than if like power lines get messed up, if a factory itself gets damaged, that could lead to all kinds of problems.
So for all those reasons we should not further exploit geothermal energy, we should instead focus the resources that we would have used to further exploit geothermal energy and use that for better sources of green technology like solar energy.