The affordable care act brings more good than harm for two big reasons: first, the affordable care act is simply a moral bill.
It is a morally good bill to have and secondarily, the affordable care act is good for the economy.
So, first, why is the affordable care act a moral bill?
Let's start by talking about some facts: it's a fact that more people are insured now after the affordable care act was passed than before.
It is particularly true that more of the people insured are more likely to be poor people because of, like, expanded medicaid enrollments and subsidies in lot of cases and expanded access via the exchanges that exist now and additionally, because younger people are allowed to stay on their parents' enrollment plans until a later age than they previously were able to, more young people are more likely to be insured, and third, because people aren't worried about losing coverage because of being discriminated against by corporations because of preexisting conditions.
This means that people those other people are more likely to be covered as well.
But in addition to more people being insured, we're more likely to also see people actually get quality and affordable insurance and the reason for this is because now, because of subsidies that exist, because of regulations that exist on insurance, you're less likely going to see people skip doctors appointments, skip visits, forego medical treatment because they don't think that they can afford it or because their co-pay is going to be too high.
So, this means that at the end of the day, more people are being insured and more people are healthier as a result of this.
So, the impact is that essentially, people are safer and healthier and I think that this is incredibly important because first and foremost, I think this is just the decent, moral thing to do.
I think that when people are in need, when someone is sick, when someone is potentially dying, when someone doesn't have the money to pay for something doesn't have the money to pay for their own health, I think that the health and well-being of someone is such a basic part of living a good and fulfilling life, it is something that is so elementary to your existence, themselves, I think that this is something that people have a right to and it is something that just ought be on face provided to people.
But in addition to this just being the decent thing to do, I think in a lot of ways, the state has a unique responsibility to ensure that its people are healthy and safe because one of the big reasons why a state exists is that the state exists to provide a social safety net for people in a lot of cases when people need help getting and it exists to make sure that people are going to be healthy and that are going to be healthy.
I think this is one of the big reasons why the state exists in a lot of ways because people's health enables because the health of people essentially enables mobility, it enables democracy, it enables their dignity and their worth, it enables a whole lot of things.
People need their health to do essentially anything else in life, so if the state exists for anything, the state exists to provide basic necessities like that.
So, besides it being a moral bill, I also think that the affordable care act is good for the economy and it's good for the economy in two basic ways: first, the way in which it corrects prior strains that exist on the system and second, the way in which it creates positive externalities for the economy.
So, first, the way in which it corrects system strains, I think there's three ways in which it does this: first, by having a mandate of people buying health insurance, people who are healthy, people who may otherwise make a financial decision not to buy insurance, they're now they have to buy insurance.
This means that since there's going to be more healthy people in an insurance pool, you're now going to be able to have insurance companies offer lower rates.
They're not going to have to hike up premiums as much because there's more healthy people in the insurance pool to make up for the less healthy people in the insurance pool.
So, that's a good thing, number one.
It secondarily also led to medicare and medicaid expansions, things that were good for helping the health care of elderly people in medicaid and for poor people that weren't currently.
Third, it also means since you're required by since you're required to give medical treatment to people if they're in an emergency, even if they don't have healthcare coverage, this ensures that the that the average taxpayer isn't footing the bill for these uninsured costs that are existing.
But additionally, there's also very positive externalities that are associated.
Obviously, when people have people are healthier, they're better able to work, people can be workers, they're not there's gonna be more productivity, but also when people are healthy, they can spend money on other things, they can consume more, they have more social mobility because they're healthier, these are all things that are ultimately good for the economy, so, similarly, obamacare did more good than harm.