We should keep the drinking age where it is at twenty one years old because lowering the drinking age would be quite bad for the health of young people.
So first and foremost let's talk about why drinking is bad for the health of young people.
Why alcohol is bad for young people.
First and foremost, people's brains aren't fully done maturing and developing until about age twenty one.
Certainly by age eighteen people are still learning, people are still growing, as are their brains.
And this is very important because alcohol is proven to mess up your brain in a lot of ways.
To stunt its ability to grow, to kill to kill aspects of it.
And that's a really big problem because when therefore when you allow people to take alcohol at a young age, you're essentially allowing them to poison their development.
Which is obviously not something that we should want.
The second thing though is that do do a due to increased lack of maturity that's more likely to be present in younger people, there's more of a likelihood that they're going to experience the worst aspects of alcohol.
This is for a couple of reasons: first and foremost because younger people are less likely to be mature.
They're more likely going to act irresponsibly when they're under the influence of alcohol.
Younger people are gonna be more likely to do reckless behaviors like drive drunk, to get into like fights drunk, to do other kinds of disturbances for society while drunk.
And that's obviously a big problem.
But additionally, younger people are also more likely to be influenced on by alcohol in very insidious ways.
When people start drinking at a younger age they're more likely to abuse alcohol, form lifelong habits, possibly more likely to get addicted to it as well, because they're being influenced by it at a very young age and it becomes just like a real part of their existence.
Besides all those reasons though I wanna talk about why keeping the drinking age where it is is actually a pretty effective way of limiting the access of alcohol to younger people.
And I think that this is true because it's quite obvious that the status quo isn't like a wholly enforceable thing.
Like we're not we're not gonna pretend that we can a hundred percent prevent younger people from being able to access alcohol, but we think that on like as a point of comparison, more young people are going to struggle to access alcohol if the drinking age is higher, and that's still a win for us.
So why is this true?
First and foremost because you limit the context in which people can get alcohol.
You can't just walk into a bar, or walk into a store and get alcohol if you're a younger person now, in the same way that you can get like a fruit smoothie or something.
You have to rely on other people.
Are you have to rely on older friends, which a lot of young people don't have.
Like if you're a freshman in high school you probably don't know all that many like senior, not even senior, like you probably don't know all that many older people who are like college age people.
Things like that.
Additionally a lot of parents may not be ok supplying alcohol for their kids, or if they are willing to do it, they're more likely going to be able to exert more control over the way in which it is happening.
So people, like whether its friends or family members, aren't going to want to be legally responsible for possible consequences of like throwing a rage or a party or something like that.
So if parents are willing to like supply people with alcohol at all, it's probably more likely going to be in a more responsible and controlled setting which makes it more likely that you're going to responsibly use that alcohol.
So for all those reasons we should not lower the drinking age.