Organ donation should be mandatory because it saves lives.
Let's start by talking about what we're going to do as far as the actual enforcement of mandatory organ donation.
First, as far as live organ donation is concerned, you're going to be automatically enrolled in it as soon as you try to get a driver's license or register to vote or any other kind of service like that.
You're automatically going to be registered in a live in an organ donation and if you refuse to do so, once a doctor tries to call you about an organ donation, then you can be prosecuted under that, criminally.
And secondarily, everyone upon death is going to be - if they want their will to be enforced to any capacity - it's gonna to be required that you're going to be a organ donor upon death.
So now let's talk about why such requirements is necessary.
First and foremost, in the status quo, organ donation system has failed and the reason that it's failed is the way in which it has failed is obvious.
There's far too people in the system and it's incredibly difficult to find actual matches in order to get organ donations done, especially in emergency circumstances.
The reason for it is simple: people are stupid and people think that when they give up one of their two kidneys, or something else like that, they're going to maybe possibly harm themselves, or people are lazy and they don't feel like it's worth the effort to do all these kinds of things.
Now the problem is is that these things don't aren't particularly important when you compare them to the actual emergencies that can be solved.
So, how do we think that we're actually going to be able to solve these things?
First and foremost, when you require everyone to be as part of the system, you're just going to have more people in the system.
This is incredibly important because there's a whole lot of people in various locations that get sick and one of the problems that we see is that even if a match does exist, there could be limited supplies of a certain kind of match or a certain kind of blood type so you may not be able to access it right away, a match may be far away so there may be difficulties and transporting things and all of that can lead to more complications and risk.
So all of those are always are problems that are going to be solved.
So basic point of this is that you're going to save lives and that the system is going to be better.
So, now that we've talked about that and about how this is obviously going to be better let's talk about possible ethical implications.
I think as far as ethical implications are concerned, it's very clearly going to be positive.
And there's a few reasons for this: first and foremost because you're going to save lives.
So I don't think that any harm actually realistically exists for most forms of organ donation.
You have two kidneys and if you give one up you're probably not going to have many problems, if you're dead then you're certainly not going to have any kind of horrible problems, and I think that you can like any kind of argument you could possibly make - religious rights or whatever - even if you wanna take the strongest one which is probably religious rights, quite simply, lives are more important.
We don't let people practice religion in any kind of way if it means that more people are going to die, and if you practicing your religion in a certain way makes it more likely that someone's gonna die because they're not gonna be able to get an organ donation in emergency, then the state has every right to say this is what's best for the people and that what this is what's best for society overall.
But additionally I think that harms are quite rare anyway and they're very much unlikely.
I think that in most cases this can be done safe, in fact it's oftentimes much safer under this system because it's going to be done in a much like broader sense and there's going to be less need to worry about things like travel between like the coordinations and things like that.
And finally, even in the most unlikely circumstances where there is some kind of harm, most likely these harms are gonna be minor like maybe a doctor boxes an organ donation or something like that.
Then there's other ways that you can correct for this in these very select few cases.
Maybe you can have a tort lawsuit, you can sue someone for damages, any , pretty much every country in the world has provisions like this in the status quo, you don't have to you don't have to, you can just you don't have to change the entire system for these few isolated cases.
So for all those reasons organ donation should be mandatory.