We should definitely increase the fuel tax for a lot of reasons.
The first reason we should increase the fuel tax is because fuel is kind of awful and it's really bad for the environment and things being bad for the environment is nothing short of catastrophic nowadays unless you like to live under water or think that air should be breathable or things like that.
So I think that we want to really disincentivize people from being over over reliant on fossil fuels anyway.
Taxes are a great way to do that.
By increasing taxes on fossil fuels you make it more expensive which makes other better alternatives like green energy, solar energy, hydro-electric energy, or even nuclear power and things like this.
Like it makes all kinds of alternatives better or instead of using instead of maybe buying a gas car you'll buy an electric car and those are things that are really good for the environment and good for society at large because it lacks like third party harms or like public harms in the same way that they do.
So like really what the increased fuel tax does is just kind of directs incentives but it also gives the government more money now to deal with the impacts of climate change or things like that or honestly it gives also the government more money where they can spend that money on just about anything else even if they're not spending it on environmental helping like the environment out.
It also just gives us like money to spend on anything else so like we can use it to expand healthcare, education operations, maybe even replace crumbling infrastructure given that like tons of bridges in america are structurally deficient.
Most public transportation systems in cities are absolutely garbage.
So those are all things that you can spend this fuel tax this fuel tax money on as well.
Finally it's going to reduce dependency on like foreign powers and things like that by more so creating like other outlets for energy which is good.
So by decreasing reliance on fuels you decrease rather like unsavory alliances maybe in the middle east where a lot of this money like can end up funding like insurgency groups or at the very least is funding groups that are are funding governments that are tend to not be democratic, tend to be autocratic despots who are also like like very much like yeah.
So besides the fact that it's fuel taxes would be good for the environment and would be good for helping restore like balance of power and it would also be good for allowing public investment things like.
It would also be really good in the way in which we just like chart out the like future of invest like energy in the way in that it's going to be invested because besides just like directing incentives on the individual level, things like fuel taxes are also going to shift directions of the economy by signaling to essentially investors, companies, and like higher up people that we're moving away from fossil fuels essentially.
So it's all it's probably going to like kick-start a lot of the other things we've already talked about.
So for all those reasons, increase the fuel tax.