Casinos bring more harm than good for two big reasons: first, because casinos are just a way to trick people into spending more and more of their money on something that is never going to actually help them, really, and secondarily because casinos bring in a lot of associated crime, a lot of associated problems directly.
So let's start by talking about casinos themselves because I think that it's important to note that casinos are not just the same thing as gambling.
I think casinos are uniquely, as an institution, bad because they are designed in such a way to make money to make money off people and in order for them to make money off of people they necessarily have to bring in more money than they give out.
So when people are gambling their money it's not just something like it's like a fifty fifty chance, or it's not something like an investment where you are likely going to be able to get something about or you're actually making like a skilled assessment.
It's, essentially your wagering your money for, like, something that's very very unlikely actually going to give you any kind of pay out.
But in addition to the fact that the odds are almost certainly going to be against you, there's also an incentive to keep waving that pile of money in front of you at these institutions.
Keep drawing you in to play one more time.
To like give it one more go, if the hope that maybe that time, that will be the time that you win.
But it does not work out like that.
That's not the way in which you actually persuade.
That is not the way in which you actually like make money and I think that that's inherently bad.
So the next thing that I want to talk about is associated crime because casinos directly bring in people like, you can look at places like las vegas as an example of this, casinos directly first bring in crime via drinking, because it's like public drinking or wide spread getting drunk because, well, as often times I think it's associated with gambling.
So all of the crime that is associated with drunkenness, be it DUI's or violence, violent behavior sometimes, things like that.
All of those harms as are associated with drunkenness are also associated with casinos as well.
But I think in addition to that casinos also kind of fostering a general norm of not to say sin, but like a general norm of like things that people do that are less than savory.
So when people tend to go to a place like las vegas, for example, you go there for the gambling but there's also oftentimes widespread like prostitution rings there and things like that, there's oftentimes like widespread drugs and things like that as well.
So, there is an association of like a lot of crime with casinos as well besides the actual crime themselves.
So finally, I think that it's important to compare all of these harms to the benefits of casinos because casinos aren't really something that's actually necessary for anything like that.
They're just like a way in which people can be entertained.
But, casinos as an institution aren't the way in which people have to gamble.
Maybe you can gamble with like online poker or or do something with your friends instead.
Like I think the casinos are just a uniquely bad manifestation of some of the worst impulses of people and the worst abuses of people.
So for all those reasons, very proud to propose this motion.