We should ban hate sites because hate sites are a direct attack in the digital world that ultimately manifests itself in real world attacks on vulnerable peoples in our society and the government has to do something about that.
It simply cannot be allowed to happen.
We can't allow vulnerable people to be attacked in this way.
So let's start by talking about a hypothetical and this hypothetical is that if isis where using say a US US companies server as a way in which it was getting like internet access to essentially propagate its message of like terrorism, the US government would probably talk to that company and say hey isis is using your server space as a way in which it recruits people.
We want you to stop doing this.
People probably wouldn't give this all that much thought and the obvious answer would be yeah of course we should do something about that.
There's a clear danger there.
That danger is imminent and there's not really a whole lot of alternatives to do there.
You have to make sure they're not able to like recruit people.
I think in a lot of ways we should look at hate sites in a very similar way.
Whether it's the KKK or neo-nazi groups or westboro baptist church or other kinds of affiliated like individuals that conduct that conduct themselves in such a way in which they target people and not just in the digital sense and this is really important thing because these alt-right sites become a breeding ground for real world interactions that have an incredibly big harm on people.
So when you look at things like the charlottesville protest that ultimately resulted in the deaths of people, or nazi marches that took place around the country, we see that these are essentially these sites are designed as incubators for the like worst people in society to express their hatred of other groups to solidify their their hatred of other people by meeting like-minded hateful individuals and then and then using those sites as a way to organize to act on that hate in the real world and that's really one of the big problems here because these sites are oftentimes associated with like things like hate crimes with like all kinds of like hateful actions that are taking place.
And these things have meaning.
These things have meaning because even in the most benign cases where you're simply just saying I hate jews, I hate black people, and you're not actually acting on those kinds of things, those word still carry value because those words are designed to intimidate people and those words are designed to make people feel like they don't belong and that they're not part of the country or where they are from and that's just not something that's okay.
And that's honestly the best of cases because oftentimes there is a direct violence that can come as a result of this.
When you see like radical hate when you see like hate crimes that are taking place, acts of terrorism that takes place so like when like people like dylann roof who shot up like a black church, like you see crimes that white supremacists commit against people and oftentimes they get support.
They get like the the like emotional and interpersonal support that they need, logistical support from like-minded individuals, organizational support from like other people in like neo-nazi groups.
A lot of these things nowadays come from like internet groups and I think that the best way to crackdown on these kinds of problems is to hit them right at the hit them right where their actually the heart of their organizations and their ability to organize and communicate with one another.
So for all of those reasons, we should ban hate sites.