We should end athletic scholarships, because it ultimately hurts the people it is in trying to help, and it is essentially a tool, that only is used for the advancement of universities.
So, why do we think this is true?
We're going to talk about two things today: first, the fact that this, that athletic scholarships encourage the devaluation of academics among student athletes, and that secondarily, that they are an improper solution to helping underprivileged people secure higher education.
So, first, how do how do athletic scholarships devalue academics?
This is quite basic, and it's been well documented, that there are oftentimes institutional pressures, among student athletes, to take, first, easier classes, easier classes that aren't ultimately really going to be all that rigorous, and the reason for that, is because there's oftentimes rigorous requirements by bodies like the NCAA, that, require a certain grade point average in order to compete, and therefore organizations want to make sure, schools want to make sure their people are able to compete, to fulfill those requirements.
But additionally, the practices themselves, and the games themselves, oftentimes make it more difficult to be at classes often, and to do your homework as often, and study as often as your peers.
So, it encourages a focus on essentially your sports, and this is important, because since your scholarship, and since your presence in that school is linked to your sport, rather than your academic prowess, you're always going to feel a pressure to prioritize your sports over your academics.
This is a big problem, because this means that people, when they are not taking their academic seriously, are going to be less prepared for the world in reality, when it's quite likely that they're not going to be able to make a whole lot of money out of sports, because most student athletes aren't able to actually make it to professional sports, and therefore are ultimately going to need their academic prowess a whole lot more, and I think that that's a big problem.
But, the next thing that I'm going to talk about, is about this being an improper solution.
So, obviously it's important to help minorities and underprivileged people, of all races, and religions, and backgrounds, trying to accomplish in education, because education is a great equalizer in a number of ways, but this isn't the way to do it.
And the reason this isn't the way to do it, is because merit aid, and financial aid, can be just as helpful.
Obviously, financial aid can directly be very helpful for underprivileged people, but, merit aid can also be helpful too, because privileged because because underprivileged people can be smart people too, who are very deserving of these kind of things as well, who are are incredibly intelligent people, who just haven't oftentimes been given the tools to succeed in the same way, so that's very important, especially, because there's no harm tied to merit and financial aid, in the same way that there is to athletic scholarships, when it leads to devaluation of education, there's none of that present.
But additionally, I also think that this is in many ways, a foe solution, or a false solution, because, obviously athletic scholarships, when they have the facade of helping underprivileged people, this excludes most underprivileged people, it excludes most people who are non athletes, most underprivileged people, that are never able going to be able to get an athletic scholarship.
So, the best case scenario is that leaves a lot of these merit based scholarships for more affluent people, and it essentially means that, it creates a system, where people feel comfortable with the fact that, poor people continue to get messed up by the system, something that is obviously not fair, and I think this is a big problem, because schools allow this to happen, while they continue to profit off of these players.
This is in division one sports of making profits, millions of dollars off of these players, despite, on balance, most of them not being helped all that much in the long run.
So, it's for those reasons that we should end athletic scholarships, and replace that with renewed interest in financial aid, scholarships particularly, but also merit aid that targets more underprivileged people.