We should not subsidize public service broadcasters, and we shouldn't subsidize them because they're not necessary, they're easily replaceable, with more convenient alternatives like internet access.
So, let's start by talking about the utility of it, because obviously not that much money in the status quo get spent on public service broadcasting, like it's a small portion of most budgets, certainly the US budget, it's probably only a few million dollars maybe, something like that.
Here's the problem: all of that money can still be spent on other things.
A few million dollars for fighting homeless people, or increasing education budgets, and all of these things are still meaningful, and it's not nothing.
So, it's clear that this money, while maybe small, is still not meaningless, it's still something that's important.
I don't think that public service broadcasting is all that important, it's not that important first because most people just don't watch it.
It's not something that the vast majority of people in a country are going to watch, first and foremost, because it's just not it's in a factual nature, but secondarily I don't think that most people get their news from broadcasting services anymore anyway.
Most people get their news from like, the internet, where you can get a whole lot of news, it's it can be a lot more digestible, it can be at times that are more convenient to you, it can be more specifically tailored to the kind of news that you're looking for.
So, for all those reasons broadcasting services aren't actually going to get all that many viewers, so it's not really that big of or that important of a public service.
Now, someone may try to say: oh well, what about people who can't afford internet access, what about people who are more reliant on public services, and things like that?
So, here's the problem though, that money that you're spending on the public service broadcasting, you could instead spend that money on subsidizing internet access for them, or other things like that, which is clearly a much more useful way to spend that money, like internet access is really useful for everything, from getting their news, to like, maybe looking for jobs to planning your day out, finding out where you can go grocery shopping, like there's just infinite ways in which public service broadcasting is either entirely unnecessary, or, if it is necessary, the people who it is necessary for would be better helped by that money being spent on alternatives, that are just more useful.
So, I think for all those reasons, it's very clear that you shouldn't want to spend money on that.
And, I think this is also important, because people aren't going to be as willing to fix problems, like internet access lacking, than like otherwise.
So, I think that that's big.
And for those reasons, you should not subsidize public service broadcasters.