We should ban targeted killings because targeted killings are inherently unjust and a horrible thing to use and they also carry too much of a risk for abuse so we have to stop using them altogether.
So let's start by talking about why targeted killings are just always bad.
They're inherently unjust.
And this goes to the heart of the way in which we determine guilt and culpability and things like that.
So this is important.
Especially because oftentimes people are using them on their own citizens as a means of extra judicial assassinations, such as when the US orders drone strikes on american citizens who are suspected of terrorism.
It's essentially a way to subvert the criminal justice system.
And this is a big problem because guilt isn't just something that exists in your mind or it's isn't some kind of knowledge.
You can't know somebody is guilty of some crime because because guilt isn't something that you know.
Guilt is a process.
It's a designation.
You are guilty if you are proven guilty in a court of law.
So if you shoot somebody but you're not proven guilty then you're not actually guilty of that time.
It's the basis of guilty of proven innocence.
And this goes to like the heart of basically like a fundamental thing that we hold true dear in a free society.
Because there's obviously nothing worse than like losing your freedom.
And getting targeted for an extra judicial assassination is one of the worst ways to lose your freedom.
Because the government taking away like the thing that's most important to you.
It's taking away your life.
And it's doing so to you without due process, without any kind of rights, without any semblance of possibly a proportional punishment, without any semblance of any kind of justice whatsoever.
They're just doing what they want to do because they look at you as some threat and nothing more and not even worthy of any kind of basic dignity or rights or process that's involved, that is required in order for something to be just.
So beyond all of that it's also unjust because targeted killings are, it's rather a bad name because targeted killings tend to be rather poorly targeted in a lot of circumstances, targeted killing means you it oftentimes means you're firing a drone into the building.
And drones are basically glorified missiles oftentimes in a lot of ways.
So when you fire a drone strike in a building where he where you suspect terrorists, it's not like in some tiny sniper that's going to only kill the one person that you're targeting.
You're firing a damn missile at a building.
The other people in that building are probably not going to get out of it alive.
So when you have like oftentimes like family families that live in these places, innocent civilians who just happen to be neighbors.
Militaries are oftentimes quick so write this off as simply collateral damage, which is, besides the fact that it just like like obviously immoral to just write off people's lives as collateral damage, it is like completely heinous, but beyond all of that, beyond that just being immoral, I also think that this is simply right for abuse.
Because one of the biggest checks that we have against war historically and in reality is the fact that wars can be very expensive and we don't like it when our soldiers die.
So it prevents us from over-using from over going to war to often.
Over-using war as an option.
Because war is an unpopular option when it's an expensive and it comes with the risk of human life.
But targeted killings are too easy.
When you're just when you're just pushing a button and then to drone fires a missile at somebody, there's no real human life that's in danger for your own people, only the lives of other people.
And it's a comparatively cheap option in a lot of ways.
So it's incredibly easy to use drone strikes, and they're very likely to be abused because there's not really much of a cost of actually using them.
You don't suffer the cost.
The people on the the people who you're targeting in their country are often times suffering the cost.
So for all those reasons we should ban targeted killings.