International volunteering brings more good than harm for two big reasons.
First, because I think that international volunteering helps create a sense of awareness and understanding of the culture and when you bring this back to your home country this results in you being better able to connect and better able to represent them from a policy perspective, and secondarily, I think that international volunteering just like straight up helps people, straight up makes people's lives better, and that's good.
So, let's start by talking about this awareness and policy point.
Keep in mind that when you go to a place to internationally volunteer, like, let's say like you go to like uganda or southeast asia or something like that, you're you're going to necessarily become immersed in that area's language, that area's culture, that area's food, what their religious norms may be, what their social norms or values may be, you're going to like learn a whole lot about these people.
, you're also going to understand the concerns that they have, the day to day worries they have because you're going to truly live amongst them.
And this is important because this puts like a real human face on these people.
It makes sure that in the most intimate way, you actually try to like at least as best as you can as an outsider, understand what some people are going through.
And, that's really important because, when you see , when you see policy makings happen that affect a whole lot of people in the international community that are the beneficiaries of volunteering, it oftentimes come with like a gross disregard for how other people are actually going to think about that.
So, when you bring this perspective back to your home country, when you bring back this like more intercultural understanding, you're going to be able to assess the way you choose to go into these policy field which most people do after internationally volunteering in some places, a lot of these people do go into activism, you're going to have like a better ,you're going to have like a better capacity to actually inform policies and make better judgment calls.
Second, I think that international volunteering is good because it just straight up helps people.
So like what's a concrete example of this?
A lot of people teach english and debate like british parliamentary debate in rwanda to people who wanna learn there or things like this.
Other people may do things like build houses in places or the like.
So these things are good because when you're helping people like international volunteers, they're not just like sitting around on their butts the whole time, they're either teaching people practical skills or teaching people english, they could be teaching people debate, they could be teaching people like any number of things.
And these are like skills that can actually help people in their lives, that could like make make their entire lives better or international volunteers are providing like tangible goods to people like, they can help build shelters they can help like, distribute food to people all of these things are like really really good.
They change people's lives for the better , and I think that they do so with like minimal cost to other people.
I think they do so with like a very minimal cost.
Like, if people are willing to devote themselves and devote their time to doing that, and clearly these are things that like people want, like, people won't go there to volunteer unless there is some kind of like way in which they're benefiting from it.
Like, people want to maybe like teach english in like a poor part of the world to help people engage in a global economy and clearly people in these cut parts of the world want that.
Clearly people would want things like building shelters or the like things like that.
, but finally I think that all of these things oftentimes happen at much cheaper rates and that's important because when you're talking about like pretty poor parts of the world, they may not be able to afford to bring in professional teachers, they may not be able to afford to bring in as many professional contractors, professional workers or construction laborers and things like that.
And, if you can't afford it, I mean it's not gonna get done, but it's these are very important things we're talking about.
So for all those reasons, international volunteering brings more good than harm.