We should not legalize insider trading because all that all that doing this will result in is even more corruption, even more sleazy back door deals and even more enrichment of a small group of people without actually helping public trust in markets and the betterment of an economy as a whole.
So why do I think this is true?
So, once you when you give people, with honestly already near infinite resources, like corporate executives, bankers, hedge fund managers, and you give these people the option to trade inside information illegally, these this isn't going to end up resulting in some nice panacea where inside information is going to end up on like public databases, and now suddenly everyone has access to information that is going to be made in more efficient and effective ways.
What's going to happen is that you're going to see companies like goldman sachs, or like any other hedge funder like investment banker anything like that, they're going to start paying fees to other banks and other money managers and companies for this money.
They're going to keep it as like their own now proprietary owned information, and now what they can do is they can say: " oh, now we can charge even higher fees, because now we have this special information that's going to make you even more money on your investments. "
So suddenly things like fees for investment get higher, information can become like even more lacking, all things like that.
And I can only see that what this is going to do is it's going to lead to people who already have access to more money and already have access like like hedge funds and banking services and things like that, all of these people are just going to be able to now use the system to make even more money, in even like more distinct ways from the average investor.
And in addition to the fact that's just like morally bad, I think, because you shouldn't just be like like screaming over people on their investments just because they don't have as much money to invest or as much access to invest, that doesn't mean that like you should allow rich people to make even more money and just like leave poor people behind.
But the next thing is that I also think this is just overall bad for the market in a lot of ways.
One of which is like public trust in the markets, in that like if you if you make it so that like only certain classes of like wealthy you are going to be able to invest as successfully and accurately now, the result is going to be a lot of people aren't going to choose to invest.
People can put their money in a savings account, people can buy like bonds instead.
Bonds are pretty safe usually.
People may just like your money for other things instead.
So that I think that like a possibility is less people will invest.
So that's certainly not good.
But it also means that like it's going to result in more even more wealth concentration, which is also bad for the economy.
Because when you see more like wholesale overall growth of the backbone of an economy, the growth tends to be more stable.
And also the growth tends to help more people and actually improve more lives, rather than just being growth or or like economic growth in name only, or like statistically.
Because statistically you're seeing growth, but in reality these aren't actually helping all that many people.
So I think that you also when you don't have insider trading you're it's better for the economy in addition to being moral.
So for those reasons, don't legalize insider trading.