We should not further exploit green technology for a couple of big reasons: first, we shouldn't exploit it because green technology is incredibly expensive and that this would be very exclusive to a whole lot of people in society and secondarily we shouldn't bother spending money on this because it's grossly unnecessary and we can better spend the money on other things.
So, let's start by talking about the first thing, why green technology is just like a waste of money, it's too expensive.
Obviously green technology is by and large at its like early stage and this isn't a debate about we this isn't like: we should never exploit green technology, this is like further do it right now and that's important because right now, green technology is still in its infancy, it is still way more expensive than conventional technologies, and it's by and large not ready and it's constantly improving and being replaced.
So, the first impact in this is that a lot of green technology is like a waste of investment because it's going to be replaced very soon anyway.
Like, you don't want to invest in an entire system of energy organization if you're only going to have to replace it ten years later when the grid is going to work in a completely different way or this all gets outdated.
Like, this isn't like a road where it's going to more or less stay the same for most of like recent history.
Like these technologies change very rapidly.
That's like why you don't want to put like like you wouldn't have wanted to put an archaic computer every single person's classroom right before newer computers are gonna come out, that would work a whole lot better.
So like reason number one why we shouldn't like use green technology all right now.
, additionally there's the cost element associated with green technology.
Like obviously green technology is really expensive.
So that's bad because like even if you believe that green technology is like better in some way or superior in some way you're excluding a lot of like poor people or in especially in all of like developing countries from the green technology and the reason for this because they're just not going to have the money or capability to invest in a lot of these technologies.
So, that's going to be really really bad for them.
, additionally I think that the exploitation of green technology is by and large unnecessary.
, global warming isn't going to be all that bad.
Like we can just like use human ingenuity and human engineering to get out of all of the impacts of global warming.
Like we can build levees or we can like engineer food so it grows in hotter temperatures and things like that, like none of this stuff is all that bad so there's no real reason to be greener.
I think cheaper is a whole lot more important because there's like a subjective value of human life element here and like some people may like the idea of things being greener but like not green things are pretty awesome.
Like, it's nice when your oil is available and cheap because cheap and available oil means public transportation is cheaper, it means your plastics are cheaper, it means your car is cheaper, your travel is cheaper your commute to work is cheaper.
Like all of these it like it affects every aspect of your life.
We can't just like poo poo away that.
, it's important to recognize the way which this affects people.
And I don't think this is all that necessary urgent anyway as a point of comparison.
So for all those reasons we shouldn't bother further exploiting green technology.