We should disband the united nations because it's incredibly ineffective in solving the world's problems and when you're overly reliant on one mechanism to solve the world's problems, it blinds you to other possibly more effective and beneficial ways to solve problems.
So let's start by talking about why the united nations is incredibly ineffective because there's a lot of reasons.
The biggest one is that a lot of the stuff that it does doesn't have a whole lot legally binding force in a lot of ways so a lot of actions it takes, it can't really force you to do anything.
So every time the united nation condemns someone for something or another, that condemnation doesn't really come with weight itself.
The only way in which the united nations actually has any kind of enforcement power is one of two ways: military support via individual member countries usually because even the united nations like peacekeepers are often donated troops from like individual countries armies or economic impacts of things like sanctions.
But here's the problem, those things need to be jointly agreed upon for them to have efficacy there and there's problems with that.
The first problem is that obviously the world is a rather large and diverse place and a lot of people are going to have a lot of differences on the way in which conflicts and problems should be solved, but additionally you have, especially with the security council, you have oftentimes powers that are ideologically opposed to one another, diametrically opposed, and that means that you're not actually going to be able to really build consensus on the best ways to result in actions.
So what ends up happening is that most things get vetoed, most things are seen as hopeless from the start, and a whole lot of things aren't ultimately getting done.
So what happens is that nothing gets done.
Genocides keep on happening, other kinds of injustices keep on happening, and the UN can publish report after report about those things, but these problems don't actually get solved.
And I think that's a problem because when you look at the united nations, you have this kind of assumption that the united nations is this great body that's going to try to be this communal forum where everyone can air their differences and try to collaboratively reach conclusions.
And that's nice and all, but I think that it's fundamentally flawed because the system that we use, people aren't held to the same standard.
So a country like america doesn't have to have the same obligations as as far as morality as say like uganda would.
So that's important because the result is that you see discouragement amongst like countries both big and small.
People realize that the united nations doesn't actually have any kind of binding force and yet there's still the expectation that you can make the united nations work.
All we need to do is cooperate.
But the problem is that there's an assumption that like you can force the cooperation and that will make the united nations work, when it's quite possible that we need to disband the united nations and have a different system, a different system that forces cooperation.
One that's going to maybe not be as as dependent on individual superpowers, one that's going to be more willing to actually take bold actions to establish international norms, things like that.
So for all those reasons we should disband the united nations.