We should subsidize electric cars because electric cars are fantastic compared to oil based cars and subsidies are a good way to increase their prevalence.
So let's start by talking about why electric cars are just better than oil based cars.
So first and foremost oil is absolutely awful for the environment and it's really obvious that it is.
Oil extraction is bad for the environment because you have to destroy either like ocean based habitats or land based habitats to extract it and you have to set up like massive drilling operations in completely like like oftentimes it if it's like fracking in america for example involves injecting like chemicals into the law into the like ground and it can cause earthquakes and water pollution from runoff and all these kinds of things.
It's very very bad for the environment.
It's bad during transportation as well because oil oftentimes spills there's an incredibly long history of oil spills in oceans oil spills on land via like pipelines so it's not really safe for transportation any more so than it is an extraction and oil is also really bad after the fact because the exhaust from CO two emissions is also really bad for the environment so there's really nothing at all about oil that's good.
So when we're talking about electricity obviously some kinds of electricity aren't great either you have coal you have natural gas things like that.
However particularly when we're talking about electric cars there is at least opportunity to do a lot better with green technology so for example part of its new rollout with its model three teslas also putting like a tesla also owns like solar city which is putting like solar roofs on houses which you can also use to power up your car in a way in which that's not going to require like some kind of non renewable or unclean energy.
So it's at least very much possible and will probably become increasingly more likely in the future that electric cars are going to be able to essentially run on green technology and be a whole lot safer for the environment.
But additionally I think that subsidies are a really good way to actually increase the prevalence of this superior technology.
First and foremost when you have subsidies it's a way of signaling to investors and a way of signaling to people in the industry that it's something that should be supported it's a very good industry and it's one that you want to essentially like support as a public good that's something that's I think is powerful because it is something that could trigger more a public interest and more investment in the particular field so that's good.
But it's also good because on the individual level subsidies help help with the trade offs for people so a lot of people are saying well it's easier I can be lazy or there's gas stations everywhere and I can just fill up my car whenever I want it's cheaper to have gas than to have like than to use solar energy oftentimes you can get a cheaper like oil based car that an electric car even with new models coming out.
So subsidies help the individual consumer cancel out these costs in a way that's ultimately more beneficial for everyone.
So for all those reasons we should subsidize electric cars.