Single-sex schools bring more harm than good because they're an incredibly valuable resource for empowering women.
They empower women, firstly, by creating academic role models, symbolic role models and just generally being icons of the achievements of women.
And secondarily, they also work more directly in empowering women in society and in their classrooms.
So, before we get into those arguments, let's talk about how we actually look at this context thing.
Obviously we're going to defend that single-sex schools bring more good than harm.
However, this does not necessarily mean that this should be exclusively one system or the other.
We think that it's important to have a hybrid of both systems and that individual women should choose to go to have the ability to choose to go to single-sex schools if they feel that that is a a better fit for them.
So, first let's talk about symbols and role models.
It's obvious that oftentimes when you look at a single-sex school, schools like wellesley or smith or mount holyoke, you look at schools that produce powerful female role models.
For example, hillary clinton was is an alumni of of wellesley.
And this is very important because when you have a powerful female academic, powerful female businesspeople, lawyers, politicians, that are able to thrive as a result of these environments they came from, this is very important for inspiring and encouraging women to actually get involved in certain things.
Because oftentimes women are told by society that certain occupations are not necessarily for them, that they should be pushed away from certain things, whether it's like stem research or or politics or things like that.
It's very important to make sure you have female role models so that women feel more comfortable and empowered so they can go into these fields.
But additionally, it's also important that you look at what these school what single-sex schools produce us as academic work.
Because when you look at feminism as an ideology, a whole lot of the contributions to the field, scholarly contributions to the field and also practical contributions to the field, such as like organizing people who are involved in organizing, people who are involved in like fundraising or operations or outreach, things like that, a lot of these people oftentimes come from single-sex schools, and a lot of work for advancing feminism comes out of single-sex schools.
So it's very important to make sure that we're that we are empowering this progress to continue because feminism is quite an important thing that we need to make sure that we keep defending.
This is also additionally important this entire symbolic context, because symbols are incredibly important in society.
When you think about the confederate flag in the united states, for example.
As a symbol it doesn't harm any it doesn't exactly cause like physical harm to people.
But as a symbol it's important because it's a representation of the continued oppression of african americans in society.
This is in many ways similar for single-sex schools because while even if we're not able to show that they achieve like a practical or tangible support, although I already think that we have done so, they're immensely important for the symbolic aspects of the way in which they empower women.
So, next, let's talk about some of the ways in which single-sex schools directly empower women.
There is a concept that's oftentimes called the confidence gap, in which women feel less confident or comfortable expressing a lot of their opinions, particularly when they're in the presence of men who are often times much more comfortable expressing their opinions.
So in order to combat this, single-sex schools can oftentimes be a very good solution to this problem.
Because in single-sex classrooms, when you have all women, you're going to have women that are going to be feeling more comfortable contributing in class, contributing work, and all of those kinds of things are gonna be good.
But additionally, it's also important to recognize that single-sex classrooms and schools are more likely to be less biased against women because when you look at women's academic achievements and performance in comparison to women, especially when it can come to like presentations or speaking or competitive spots on a team or things like that, oftentimes women are more likely to get their contributions are more likely to get undervalued, and this is something that's less likely to happen when they come from a single-sex school.
And all of this in turn makes it more likely that women will be high-achieving and therefore more likely to achieve later in life, which ultimately corrects a lot of systemic imbalance in society.
So for all of those reasons, single-sex schools do more harm than good.