We should not exploit geothermal energy because exploiting geothermal energy will necessarily come at the expense of other more superior forms of green technology like solar energy.
So let's start by talking about why that's the case, and the biggest reason is just because of the way economies of scale works and investment in new technologies is going to work.
Right now when we're faced with having to transition from fossil fuels that we've used for centuries to green technologies, we're faced with a lot of difficulties in replicating the degree to which fossil fuels are easy to use and cheap.
So in doing so we want to make sure that we can in order to make green technologies viable, we need to make sure that it's as cheap as possible, it's is widely usable as possible, and it's as efficient and effective as possible.
So how are you going to do that?
By concentrating your resources into the most viable form of alternative energy, and this makes sense because there's a whole lot of investment that's going to be associated with green technologies.
You have to reinvest in your energy grid, you have to do research and development into the specific kind of technology, you have to manufacture and roll out the product itself, there's all kinds of costs that are going to be associated and investments that are going to be required.
So when you have it more concentrated, economies of scale are going to kick in and you're instead of having like research happen instead of hiring like two terms of like teams of researchers to research different kinds of technologies, you can now focus that and go into like invest more in one kind of technology and that makes it more likely that you're going to have breakthroughs in development that are going to make any one kind of technology cheaper and better to use.
So given this, why should we be investing predominantly in solar energy even at the expense of geothermal energy?
And this is very clear.
First, solar energy will be much more widely usable.
One of the best things about it is that the sun is everywhere.
Even when it's cloudy, ultraviolet rays are still bouncing energy onto the surface and therefore if you have a panel there no matter what the weather is you're still going to be getting a good degree of solar energy.
That's very useful, but moreover you also have the benefits of panel placement in that you can literally just have roofs or sidewalks or driveways or parking lot be covered with solar panels which makes it much more versatile in the places in which you can use it rather than geothermal energy which is only concentrated predominantly in areas that have higher levels of seismic activity so maybe places where there's like active fault lines or things like that.
There's also matters of like transportation since solar energy can be more decentralized and that like you can power individual houses with solar panels instead of having to worry about transporting that energy from a centralized like hub to that house that would be much more efficient because you lose energy oftentimes in terms of like transformation and transportations.
That's really good, but moreover, solar energy can also in the long term be very cheap with only minimal maintenance cost needed.
You literally just put the panel on, do some wiring, and it's going to do the work for you.
You're not going to have to do like complex underground drilling operations or putting apparatuses in place deep underground to like harvest the energy of like the earth's heat all of which will probably cost a whole lot more in terms of like economic money in terms of money so that's incredibly beneficial.
But it's also just going to be better for the environment too.
Solar panels are going to be minimally destructive as opposed to having to like go deep underground into like areas of high seismic activity in order to like harvest energy there oftentimes areas of high seismic activity are also currently like protected places so places like yellowstone national park have incredibly high degrees like high levels of geothermal energy and that's also oftentimes why there's incredibly beautiful landscapes there with very fragile ecosystems that you definitely don't want to mess with.
So for all those reasons, we should not exploit geothermal energy.