We should abolish no knock warrants because they're quite unnecessary and they are incredibly rude and inconsiderate to people.
So what are we going to do to replace no knock warrants where police officers are just allowed to barge in, military guns a blazing, while they conduct their oftentimes incredibly messy and inconsiderate searches?
You would say that you have to obviously require knocking, that you have to wait a reasonable amount of time, maybe a minute or so, knock again, and in the event in which that doesn't happen, then you can go in, like if somebody's not home or if they're not responding.
So let's start by talking about why it's unnecessary in the first place.
And I think that the biggest reason why it's unnecessary is that there's this assumption that in the like few minutes in which people are going to be the few that like few minutes at most, mind you, that are saved by that are saved by no knocking, are a time in which crucial evidence can be destroyed.
And I think this is very unlikely for several reasons.
First and foremost like you would assume that like a lot of criminals are people who know that they did something wrong or need to conceal evidence would know that like there's pretty reasonable places where that evidence could be like their home and at that that home might get searched.
So like I imagine in most cases like people are just like just evidence anyway.
Additionally a lot of evidence is not even like necessarily physical evidence that like you have to do something like burn like burning to destroy documents or things like that wouldn't take that long.
But then you have other things like computer data which can be destroyed so quickly it might not even be pertinent in these cases because like in the amount of time that it would take for somebody to like open up the door you can probably like smash up a hard drive or things like that and then suddenly all the data is gone.
So I think that in a lot of cases it's pretty unnecessary but I also think that it's rude and it leads to a further erosion of relationships between police and the people they're supposed to serve, the citizens.
And I think that the reason for this is because when like you're like not knocking and you're just like as a police force like you're breaking down doors, you're usually just like opening up everyone's drawers, going through all of their stuff, and in a lot of cases since like all you need is probable cause to get a search warrant and there's a lot of exceptions oftentimes it's very it's very easy to get a search warrant in a lot of cases.
Most of the time searches aren't actually going to get anything out of it.
So keep in mind that like while maybe there's like a small number of cases in which evidence could get destroyed at worst, you're talking about the vast majority of cases in which you're just knocking down somebody's door for really no reason whatsoever, ruining their day, going through a lot of their stuff and ruining it, and making their lives just kind of substantially worse.
And people then would wonder why there is an animus with police officers why there's an unwillingness to cooperate with police officers.
And these are kind of obvious examples of that.
Like and for all of those reasons we should therefore abolish no knock warrants.