We should legalize public nudity, for a few big reasons: first, because I think that banning public nudity is inherently immoral, because it restricts the way in which people are able to express themselves with their body, in a way in which doesn't really actually affect other people, and secondarily, because I think that it fosters a culture of body shaming, which leads to a lot of bad norms with regards to like, mental health, but also stigma as far like safety for the body, things like that.
So, let's start by talking about the immoral nature.
I think that generally, if you want to live in a liberal society, that is accepting of individual lifestyles, the ideal that we should focus on is, as long as it doesn't actually hurt other people, and as long as, if there is some kind of perceived harm to other people, that harm is actually legitimate, then you should defer to allowing people to express themselves in the individual ways in which they choose.
And that's important, because individual ways in which people express themselves are like a very like inseparable part of their identity.
It's a very important part of like well being and identity.
So, these things are very important.
So, now let's talk about why there's nothing wrong with public nudity, and about why any perceived harm for this are just an illusion.
Because, recognize that, this is in many ways a distinctly western, the like the idea of banning public nudity, is distinctly western concept, and at that, not only a western concept, but a very religiously rooted in like, judeo, christian, islamic values.
What do I mean by this?
If you go to like some places in africa, you're going to see that it's very common that, people dress with little to no clothing, and that there's a lot of like body painting that exists, and like other kinds of body art, and things like that, and that, this is the way in which people express themselves, as opposed to just like wearing clothing and covering up.
So, I think it's important to recognize that, all of this is contextualized based on the culture that you live, and the culture that you grew up in.
Most people in western society, from the day that they were born, had clothes put on them, and were told every day: you need to wear clothes, you can't just go outside naked, you can't put your body out this way.
And over time, obviously this becomes a very powerful part of your identity, it becomes like a very powerful notion of shame, but, that doesn't actually mean that it's valid, and it doesn't mean that it's correct.
So, if people want to not wear clothing, they should have the right to do that.
The fact that it may offend somebody, that you're not wearing clothing, shouldn't actually matter.
It doesn't actually hurt you, it only hurts you in like a perceptual sense, because you grew up with a certain expectation or lifestyles.
But, that's no different than like someone being gay, and having a like a gay wedding hurts you.
It hurts you in like the ethereal sense, because it goes up against the values that you grew up with, but it doesn't actually lead to any like harm to you in and of itself.
So, that's why I think it's like a very very important, on like a principal level, to make sure that you allow people to go into the public in the nude, if they want to, and that this is actually very problematic notions.
But, I also want to talk about body shaming and stigmas, because I think that that's important too.
So recognize that, when you're brought up, from the day that you're born, in a culture that emphasizes a need to cover up your body, a couple of things happen.
First and foremost, you're going to there's going to be a lot more stigma with issues related to the body and your sexuality.
You're going to be much less likely to have sexual education, you're going to be much more likely to do like less safe things to your body, because there's like a social pressure and stigma against having open discussion about the body, and against open discussion with relation to sexuality, because like, that's the root of not wanting public nudity.
It's like a fear of sexuality of humanity.
So all of these things do lead to like more of a prevalence of unsafe sex, more of a prevalence of unsafe pregnancies or STI, all these things.
I also think that, secondarily though, there's problematic mental health issues, that are associated with this too.
And that's because, from the day that you're born, you're constantly questioning your body, constantly told to, like, shame your body, to cover up your body, which is, in a lot of ways, unhealthy.
It's not something that's natural, and it's not something that we should be doing.
So for all those reasons, very proud to legalize public nudity.