We should adopt gotten mobile payment because first, they're convenient and convenience is good, and second, there is no real downside to unique mobile payments.
, that would mean that there's any reason not do it so that's a thing.
So, let's start by talking about why mobile payment are just better, they're convenient.
First, mobile payments are a lot faster.
It's a lot faster to do things like venmo transfer very quickly on your phone, or use something like apple pay, than to have to like wait like several days for a bank transfer to clear or like rummage through like your stuff looking for money or your credit card or whatever.
, it's just quicker.
Second, it's also usually cheaper.
Venmo doesn't cost any money.
That's pretty nice, it's a good way to actually pay people.
But things like inter bank transfers or the like, come with costs associated with oftentimes, and these make them undesirable, but it also means that like there is an emphasis on like having cash around at all times.
But that's not always great because like, it can be difficult to access ATM sometimes, cash isn't always readily available, it's a whole lot easier to just like use your own phone to do this, and it's a whole lot cheaper.
, but it's also just like less hassle for those reasons, because like you don't have to worry about like finding ATMs or banks, going on to like websites on your computer every time you want to do a transfer like, it's very quick and it's very easy, you can pay for things immediately and all of those things are nice.
, additionally I don't really think that there's really any downsides associated with mobile payments.
And this is like really important to note because like, maybe there's like security risks or things like that, but like this isn't really any different than like the status quo.
Like, I'd probably if anything preferred to like require like if all of my stuff is on my phone, then someone can obviously hack into it with advanced hacking skills, but that's like almost a higher barrier to reach than someone taking a picture of my credit card at a restaurant, then googling my social security number and date of birth and suddenly they can have access to anything they want.
Or like buy like, a house in my name or something like that.
Like, so like I don't really think that there's like any kind of security distance there.
I don't really think that this is going to like immediately meet people spend money any more like, the idea that people like will think that this is fake money is kind of like nonsense, people are like especially like maybe like for people who have a lot of money, but for people who like are like conscious about their money, they like know how much they have and how much they can spend.
It just like makes it easier to do it but like even if that isn't true like since this is cheaper and this is more convenient, that like certainly contributes to like going against all those things anyway.
So, there's no real reason why we wouldn't adopt mobile payments.
Maybe there could be things like transition costs but like that's also going to be fine cause in the long run it's gonna be better.
So yeah, for all those reasons, I think that we should adopt mobile payments.