We should end solitary confinement because solitary confinement is torture and it's incredibly widely abused by corrections officers.
So I think it's important to point out the context of this in that a lot of states are starting to put much stricter limits on use of solitary confinement.
So, for example, just the other week the state of massachusetts passed a criminal justice bill that, among other things, reforms policies and uses of solitary confinement as a punishment as a practice in general.
And there's a reason why there's been a lot of renewed discussion and pressure around ending the use of solitary confinement, and that's because solitary confinement is torture.
People are not meant to exist in total isolation.
In fact, I think it's something that's difficult for most people to imagine because most people, when you think of solitary confinement, you think of like, " oh, well.
Maybe it's not so bad, just being alone for a couple of hours. "
But when you're in basically a complete absence of stimuli, so it's not just that like you're not interacting with people, but you don't have like your phone, you don't have any friends to talk to obviously, you don't have books, you don't have anything basically.
You're just kind of trapped in what amounts to a hole.
You're you're trapped in a hole with nothing at all, and that's something that really can psychologically damage your brain where you only have your thoughts and nothing else.
There's nothing really that can actually give you value to your life in a lot of ways and is the reason why a lot of people in solitary confinement end up like hurting themselves, end up coming out with even worse mental health problems, can end up being scarred by the experience, can end up losing the ability to interact in certain social consequences and could be the opposite of rehabilitation basically, end up being worse off, and can really hurt the ability of people to actually interact with others in a really fundamental way.
And all of those harms of solitary confinement, the the degree to which it can damage a person is amplified when solitary confinement is used as a punishment for people.
Whenever an inmate does something that a corrections officer doesn't like which, honestly, oftentimes means like maybe they they like they were breathing in some way that a corrections officer didn't like, cause they can do whatever they want.
They're basically they're like overseers.
They use it as a punishment.
They can take a punitive action which results in basically torture of another person, and it's also something that is relatively widely accepted, and it's a pretty easy punishment to pull off in a lot of ways.
And I think that the only way that we can stop these kinds of abuses and stop this torture from occurring is you need to outright ban the practice.
So for all those reasons, you need to end use of solitary confinement.