We should ban telemarking because telemarketing is spam and it's an invasion of privacy.
So let's start by talking about why it's just something that's really annoying and banning annoying things is a perfectly reasonable thing to do.
So obviously telemarketing is is annoying.
Oftentimes it's not even a person calling you it's just some robot and it makes it so that you probably want to pick up the phone because it could be something important not everyone is able to leave a message it could be an emergency and you shouldn't have to assume that you're you shouldn't have to assume that the person who's calling your personal phone is spam.
You shouldn't assume that it's just some nonsense thing or some kind of scam or like a random marketing thing.
You should be able to assume with like good faith that if somebody's calling you on your personal phone it's something that's important.
So whenever you get telemarketing calls it's incredibly important.
So being annoying is perfectly reasonable grounds to ban something.
We ban public nuisances all the time.
You can like like if somebody is like having like a party or something like that that's too loud and the neighbor complains about it the police can tell them to quiet down if like somebody is like littering that's like a nuisance or something like that like there's all kinds of nuisance crimes that people get in trouble for that you can have be punishable so I think that this is definitely something that in in a lot of ways telemarketing is far more annoying than a lot of those things I really can't think of anyone who particularly likes telemarketing who is responsive to telemarketing the only reason it probably even exists is because it's like one of the it's a very low cost just kind of have a machine on a recorder randomly call a bunch of numbers from a phone book.
So that brings us into the second problem which is that this is an invasion of privacy in the sense that our like public phone numbers shouldn't just be available for corporations and businesses like just to call whenever they feel like it trying to sell their product.
It's absolutely ridiculous because it's your personal phone and your personal phone should be your space to communicate with people who like you need to communitcate with it shouldn't be something that you need to like constantly be worrying about and like filtering through of if I pick up this phone is it just going to be some annoying telemarketing thing, and it's ridiculous that like corporations and businesses can just like have personal information about you like your phone number whenever they feel like getting it just from public databases they don't want to have any good reason just because they want to sell you something like it's an absolutely horrible reason to do that.
You shouldn't be able to just take personal information like that and do things like that like if you were constantly getting like like in the same way the like constantly getting spam mailed your address is super annoying and you don't want like random businesses knowing your address besides the fact that it's a security hazard because if that business knows your address then everyone at that business knows your address and while we're thinking about that every business in the world that has access to like a like a phone book knows like this information about you it's absolutely ridiculous so for all those reasons you should ban telemarketing.