We should not increase the fuel task because tax because doing so would be economically disastrous and especially harmful to poor people in society and also, because doing so will create essentially a revenue trap in which people will governments, rather, will continue to be reliant on oil as a source of income, essentially.
So, first, why is increasing a fuel tax going to be incredibly harmful for the economy?
So, first and foremost, it obviously is going to make the cost of travel much higher and this will have incredibly wide-ranging impacts because this will literally make everything more expensive.
Everything is going to be harder to transport to various places, it's going to be harder to produce and get to consumers, so this means that it's going to be more expensive to buy everything.
This means that consumption is going to go down, necessarily in rather widespread ways.
So, this means that you're also you're going to necessarily not have as much, like, profits for businesses and you're not going to have as much ability of, like, people actually consuming, so this is one of the biggest recipes for a recession.
But in addition to consumption being lessened, this is also going to make it a whole lot more difficult for people to actually people are going to have to spend more money on transportation which means that they're also going to have less alternative sources of revenue to spend.
So, in addition to things just costing more, they're also going to have less money to spend on those things because they have to spend more money on the increased costs of fuel and the reason for this is because in absence of oftentimes good public transportation options in america, things that, even with an increased fuel task tax are probably not going to be very likely to exist, you're essentially just forcing people to pay more money without actually getting anything else in return.
So, you're just going to force more people some people who are oftentimes poor and not and oftentimes having a car and paying for it, its gas, are expensive enough as it is, they're gonna be forcing these people to spend even more money on their transportation which means that they're going to have less money to spend on other things, whether those things be things to increase their social mobility, like education, or more just luxury goods and other items that could be helpful for the economy when they're spent.
So, this is quite bad.
But the final way in which this is going to be harmful for poor people uniquely is that this is a directly regressive tax in that if you're if you have less money, having to pay for your fuel needs, you're now going to have to pay a greater percentage of your of the actual total money you produce on fuel, this is going to have a much greater impact on you than someone who is much wealthier because that person is much more able to afford the comparative increase in money that is going to be spent on feuls.
So, that's going to be very good, so, that's not gonna be very good as well.
But, in addition to how this is going to be bad for the economy because it's going to be bad for consumption, it's going to make everything more expensive and it's also going to hurt poor people, I also think that this is going to be bad in the long run for fiscal responsibility for governments.
And why is this true?
Because I think that now, when you create a a higher gas tax, this means that governments are now going to get a more of their operating costs are going more of their, like, operating costs are going to be funded from gas.
So, this means that while there's going to be like the like overt facade that the reason why the fuel tax is being raised is because they want to decrease reliance on fuel, in a lot of ways this is actually not true and the reason this isn't true is because the government necessarily makes money off the fact that people are going to keep using fuel.
What this essentially creates is, especially since there's not a whole lot of political or feasible momentum behind that many widespread alternatives to gasoline at this time, what this essentially creates a a climate of tacit acceptance of fuel consumption because fuel consumption means that the government has more money to spend money on things, and obviously that's something that is good, the government should have money to do things, but the argument we're making is that we don't want it to come from a source like fuel because when the government is making money in that way, they're going to be less likely to do things like instill regulations on the industry or encourage alternative sources of development because all of those alternates are going to ultimately create a a compounding economic cost of transition, a compounding economic cost that's going to come as a result of having less money.
So, for those reasons, you shouldn't increase the fuel task tax.