We should ban extreme sports, because at the end of the day, a lot of extreme sports are rather inhumane, or cause a lot of problematic social norms, that result in personal injury for people.
So, first, before we get into those arguments, I want to talk about what we actually mean by extreme sports.
I think that in a lot of ways, the thing that defines an extreme sport is the inherency of the danger to it.
So oftentimes, this could be something like boxing, for example, or things that are more generally accepted as extreme sports, so things like, maybe like, downhill skiing, or more precisely like skateboarding, or things like that, other kinds of things like that.
So, let's get into the argument, I think there's an important thing to note, as far as what we conceptualize as humanity in sports, because obviously we don't have things like gladiator fights anymore, where people, like, fight to severe injury, or even death, because, it's seen as just barbaric, or inhumane.
I think that it's important to first point out that, the more obvious appearance of serious injury or death isn't necessarily the only thing that we can consider, because there's a lot of obvious dangers to things that , a lot of sports that exist.
So things like boxing, that can result in severe head trauma, and severe injuries, both in the short term, and in the long term, or about how, if you're doing something like snowboarding, for example, and you wipe out, you can have a whole lot of broken bones, and a whole lot of substantial injuries, and a whole lot of substantial injuries, that are quite bad.
So, obviously the inherency of danger is very problematic, but I think that it's also important to note this, because in a lot of ways, there's a sadistic element to these things, in that it's not just that the danger exists, but the danger of the injury is almost what we get the entertainment out of, and I think that's where the real in humanity lies.
When you see someone wipe out, when they're doing like a snowboarding trip, and they possibly even injure yourself, that is, ultimately, what leads like the one million clips on clicks on youtube, or that or in boxing, when you see someone throw that extra hard punch, that you just knock that person out, that is what draws people into the sport, and keeps them involved in invest in that sport in the first place.
And I think that's a real problem, because it's in a lot of ways commodifying the injuries of people, it's sensationalizing an actual suffering and trauma, that people experience, and I think that that's something that, simply, if we want to be a society that doesn't glorify violence, a society that thinks that, violence isn't something that we should appreciate, that's very important.
And I think the reason for that is because, it's impossible to necessarily separate the people that we watch on TV in extreme sports as athletes, it's impossible to separate them from role models, or people of influence in society.
And the reason for that is just because, they have so many people that watch what they're doing, and they have so many people that appreciate what they're doing, that they have like a real voice in a lot of things, and that they have a real influence on things.
So this manifests itself in a couple of ways: first and foremost, you have people who aren't professionals maybe trying to do snowboarding tricks, or trying to do skateboarding tricks, or things like that.
These people try to emulate the professionals, and they're in , as extreme sports, but sense they're amateurs, they're even more likely to get injured, they're even more likely to do things in an unsafe way.
So, I think what that results in, is a whole lot of people resulting in things that are going to harm themselves.
But even more broadly than that, I also think that it generally normalizes violence.
When you look at something like boxing, and you're willing to just have a stadium of people cheering for you to beat the crap out of somebody, I think that there's an inherent problem there.
Because, if we want to tell our children, and if we want to tell society: violence isn't the answer, you should try to come up with alternate means to violence, but yet when we see violence in our society, we're willing to pay money to watch people do that, we're willing to cheer for violence, I think that that's sending, not just a mixed signal, it's sending the opposite signal altogether.
So, if we really want to move forward in society, we have to ban extreme sports.