We should not ban herbal medicine.
For some of the problems with herbal medicine regulations are perfectly sufficient so we just do that instead.
So I think that its first important to note that herbal medicine is incredibly broad and that to some extent things could work and to some extent things can't work.
And I think that one of the big problems is the allegation that some things in herbal medicine are actually toxic and not actually helpful for people.
So the problem is that first and foremost for things that are toxic or actively harmful, you can regulate those things or test those things and ban those things.
But for things that may be unhealthy or toxic there's also things that are obviously beneficial as far as herbal medicine is concerned like like aloe vera is pretty helpful for thing for basic things like sunscreen things like dead sea like dead sea salt is good for acne and a lot of face creams compared to a lot of the synthetic garbage that comes out of factories.
Like marijuana is an herb, its medicinal, it has some good values it can have some good values to as medicine is concerned for curing pain things like that.
So obviously it's not sufficient to just say that like while they're some bad things in herbal medicine so that's a justification to ban all of it because I think that these good things are very important and you can just taylor regulations to what does and doesn't work.
But I think that even in some kind of world where you can't do that very sensible thing, it's important to note that people should be able to make decisions about what they put in their bodies and how they treat their bodies.
Especially because it's not as clear cut as well on the one hand you have herbal medicine on the other hand you have real scientific medicine because there's there can often be a whole lot of risks associated with traditional medicines as well, particularly when you're talking about things that aren't as serious but things that are very commonly used for herbal medicine so things like helping with your sunburn or like something for like your acne or pimples, things that are fairly commonplace that millions and millions of people use some kind of herbal treatment for those can be a lot safer in a lot of ways then like toxins like you look at like like like manufactured like sunscreens or things like that or whatever like they could be bad for your skin they can be toxic in a lot of ways a lot of things that are synthetic are really bad for the environment in pretty harmful ways you have like the microbeads in your face cream that are really really bad because they go into ecosystems so there's all kinds of ways in which traditional medicines that like aren't made out of herbs or whatever are incredibly harmful as well.
So I don't really understand why you would just like single out herbal medicine as something that's bad uniquely in any kind of capacity that you would have to just ban it wholesale.
Think that herbal medicine definitely has a place, it can be valuable for various things and it can be safe and effective for treating certain things especially if used properly and regulated properly.
So for all those reasons, don't ban herbal medicine.