We should ban alternative medicine for two big reasons.
First, because it hurts people directly and second, because it creates an opportunity cost for funding and focus on real medication.
So first, why should we ban alternative medicine?
It creates very clear and obvious direct harms towards the people it hurts.
Now, I think it's a generally accepted idea that the government should ban things that are harmful to people.
Obviously, the government bans things like heroin.
It bans a lot of non-FDA approved drugs.
It bans a whole lot of other things as well, and it bans these things because we believe that the government has a duty to protect its people from things that could be that they could be coerced into taking that could be harmful.
So why is this true?
Because the population aren't medical experts.
The population isn't able to fully understand what any given medical compound is going to do to them, and it is therefore very easy for them to be misled into taking things that could be harmful for them, without fully understanding the consequences, and that's obviously not good.
But another reason why they could be misled into taking these kinds of things is because and to alternative medicine, more specifically, is because there is a hope element to this.
Oftentimes if you're you could be taking an alternative medicine, it could be im they could have less side effects than conventional medicine, it could be cheaper, it could be more enjoyable, it could be a whole lot of other things as well.
So that's another reason why people may be led into taking alternative medicine.
So, obviously this isn't very good because at the very best, alternate medicines have no proven record at all of efficacy.
So they're not actually doing anything for you, you're just wasting your money on it.
But the worst case is that some alternative medicines could be very bad.
They could react poorly with conventional treatments, they could do harm to you on their very own inherently, and this is very bad.
And this is very bad, especially not just because it's bad, but also because there's no benefits accrued as a point of comparison.
So there's no even real reason why this is necessary to take or benefits.
Any benefits cannot actually be isolated to alternative medicine itself.
So, now that we've established that, next going to talk about the opportunity cost point.
So, this is also very important because all of the billions of dollars that get invested into researching and ultimately disproving anything beneficial about alternative medicine comes at a cost first and because it takes a long time to confirm these kinds of things.
So first and foremost, if the government is funding research and on alternative medicine, it's not funding research on real medicine.
And this is a big problem because the development of actual drugs, drugs that save people's lives, can be an incredibly expensive and incredibly long process, and increase funding for this kind increase this process, make it quicker, and this could result in a whole bunch of lives being saved if a cure or if or a more effective treatment is even found a few months earlier.
But the second thing is that all of this money being spent on alternative medicine additionally also is money that cannot be spent on facilitating access to conventional medicine networks.
So rather than spending billions of dollars on researching and proving that these stupid medicines don't work anyway, what they can do is they can spend all of this money on making it so that existing health care that we know works is more affordable and accessible.
So if we want to ensure that there is a healthier population, one that's going to be more productive and more financially capable and also just, in general, better off population, I think it's very clear that we should ban alternative medicine.