We should ban algorithmic trading because algorithmic trading is incredibly unfair to the average person invested in the stock market and it can also have bad economic impacts.
So first why is it unfair?
I think it's unfair for a lot of the same reasons why things like insider trading are unfair.
Because it gives people who have more money, have more power, and have access to advanced technologies a leg up in the way in which they're trading.
And I think that that's a big problem.
Because I think that the idea behind the stock market is that, like as like a broader tool, is that it's a it's an ability for people to essentially invest their money and try to get more money out of it by like helping businesses and things like that.
It's not supposed to be just kind of a game that you play in order to get the best returns out of it possible, or to use like these advanced algorithms to try to like maximize your returns in a way.
And I think that this becomes like a big problem for competitive advantages because the people who don't have access to these advanced algorithms are going to be left out.
And the people who had access to these advanced algorithms, whether you're like a hedge fund or like an investment bank or things like that, places like that, they're going to be able to essentially use those tools to like leverage like a greater returns of the market, maybe to like cause like even market collapses in other areas, like to like dump off a bunch of stocks simultaneously or things like that, so it's unfair in that like it allows like a certain small select group of people who have access to this to get more money.
But it also can create a lot of problems, because like I was just talking about how you can have like a computer algorithm essentially deciding to all at once dump a bunch of stocks causing its value to plummet, which could cause bad impacts for real people.
I think there's a human element to the stock market that we don't oftentimes consider, and that an algorithm certainly doesn't consider.
That causes like a good deal of problems in the end.
But there beyond that there's also the possibility of errors that can lead to problems in the economy.
So happens like computers just like like like a computer program malfunctions and makes a decision and suddenly, and these are things that happen sometimes, and suddenly like tens of thousands of dollars in stocks are getting traded and the stock market plummets momentarily, just because errors that are being made, and money that was floating around gets lost, these are kind of like ridiculous problems to have and things that are really easily avoidable if we just take more common sense measures.
But the the like the last thing to talk about is like we don't really need algorithms.
It's not like it's some kind of an innovative market tool that we actually really need to be relying upon.
People have been trading in the stock market for like like well over a century now in rather typical ways.
Like computer generated algorithms and advanced trading mechanisms are rather new ways of doing trading.
So you certainly don't need trading in order to, like this kind of trading, in order to run the economy.
It's really not necessary.
It's I think only purely accent as a tool for like the wealthiest and best off corporations and individuals in order to just get as much money as possible by gaming the system.
So for all those reasons, ban algorithmic trading.