We should subsidize investigative journalism because investigative journalism is incredibly important and subsidies are really necessary for it because journalism isn't making as much money as it ought be making and certainly not enough money to do it's very vital service.
So let's start by talking about why investigative journalism is so important.
This is honestly pretty straightforward.
In a lot of ways, at least in america, the media's oftentimes considered a fourth branch of government in the way in which it functions as an additional check and balance on political power whether it's by exposing political corruption of some kind wrongdoing by corporations and political actors or private acts of some kind some kind of like serious misconduct government cover ups there's all kinds of horrible things that people in power do and then try to conceal.
But in addition to just like more scandalous and salacious things, they also earn credit investigative journalism is also incredibly important for making sure that people are really accurately informed, making sure that people know all the facts and that people are able to make really good judgment call make judgment calls on what they actually believe in because they'll have all of the facts.
And this is one of the most vital things to a democracy because democracy is all about making choices.
Choices for what policies you want to support, what politicians you want to support, and the only way in which it's really even like sensible to have a democracy that can like really function is if people who are making those decisions are actually informed.
If you're going to vote for somebody who's just going to do something completely the opposite or someone who's going to be like really corrupt like those are obviously things that would change your opinion, it would probably change your vote.
So it's really a matter of like fundamental democracy that investigative journalism is able to thrive.
And we certainly can't rely on politicians and corporations to self regulate because oftentimes they simply don't care they simply want to protect their own reputations, their own pride, and their own power.
So having the media having investigative journalism as an additional check is absolutely vital to making sure that power remains in check.
The next thing that I want to talk about is why subsidies are necessary because unfortunately in the digital age that we live in investigative journalism is struggling and its struggling because people are oftentimes able to get their news online for free.
People don't really have to pay for news because most news is available online and additionally a lot of people have short attention spans don't actually like to read things and don't always get their news from the best sources so a lot of investigative journalist outlets and traditional news outlets that are incredibly important and serve a vital role in democracy are financially struggling and the result of this is they're laying off a lot of people there's less of a focus on investigative journalism and that's all really bad.
You certainly can't rely on like a lot of like corporations and politicians to fund them because that would be a conflict of that would be like a lot there's like a lot of conflict there so often times they're just like strapped for funds so subsidies would be like really good like mandatory subsidies would be like a really good solution to this because it makes sure that there's going to be funding online to make a vital public service is being done.
In the same way in that like we give funding to PBS or public broadcasting system in america like a channel and the same way in which like you fund like public communications and things like that you can fund investigative journalism as a vital function of democracy.
It's certainly necessary it's certainly feasible and it's certainly importance.
So for all those reasons subsidize investigative journalism.