We should get rid of amnesty international for a lot of reasons.
Most notably, amnesty international is ineffective, it's also corrupt and finally it's biased.
So let's talk about all of these things.
First why is amnesty international ineffective?
And I think that the biggest reason for this is because a lot of the work that it does doesn't actually create lasting solutions to the problems that it's supposed to.
A lot of amnesty international's work involves things like conducting like like compiling reports, conducting like surveys of various areas, or trying to maybe give aid to various areas, etcetera etcetera.
Now some of the things are okay, but they're at best replaceable and at most not all that helpful in actually solving problems.
And the big reason for that is because a lot of these problems are necessarily political, and give you can give like as much aid as you want to any given reason region, or you can compile as many reports as you want about say the human rights violations in yemen, but that's not going to save that's not going to change the political reality.
Because a report about human rights violations in yemen isn't going to make saudi arabia and the united states or iran or anybody actually change their attitude on their military actions.
What you, what does is political activism, politics, and the actual engaging of like power structures themselves, not so much trying to just like deal with some of those consequences.
So I think in a lot of ways amnesty international just wholesale doesn't really get a whole lot done.
The next thing though is that amnesty international is very corrupt.
And amnesty international, along with other notable organizations like like the red cross, have come under fire for charitably you can call it mis-use of money.
People donate millions and millions of dollars to organizations like amnesty international.
They make a whole lot of money.
And they've come under fire because they've seen like a lot of that money go towards administrative fees or management, to the point where a lot of this isn't actually going towards helping people that it's supposed to be helping.
When you have such large organizations, with such a large overhead, with such ineffective administrative fees, spending so much of their money on advertising, spending so much of their money on executive salaries, you're not really getting the best use out of your money.
And smaller more idealistic organizations, or newer aids organizations or internet services that connect you directly to people who are in need, are a lot more effective than these kind of middlemen organizations like amnesty international are, and they're less likely to be corrupt as well.
Finally, amnesty international is oftentimes biased in the way that it conducts its research.
So this could come in the form of when it's conducting surveys it could maybe exhibit like a pro western bias to some extent, amnesty international can also be criticized for example as like maybe going in the opposite direction or other kinds of things.
Oftentimes amnesty international provides like a one sided or biased image of the actual reporting or surveying that it does in any kind of given region.
So for all those reasons, we should get rid of amnesty international.