We should subsidize women in science.
And it's very important we do so.
And for starters let's talk about what the problem is.
Women are obviously underrepresented in science right now.
Whether it's because of like historical injustices and historical barring of women from certain scientific careers, or societal pressures that push women away from like stem fields or more rigorous field, and higher paying fields, in favor of things that see were like traditionally seen as more becoming for their gender.
So for example instead of pushing women towards medical schools so they become doctors, society would push women toward becoming nurses.
And additionally women also have to face all other kinds of discrimination.
Whether it's work being discredited or not being looked at is highly because of their gender, like like their research not being taken as seriously, or sexual harassment and things like that that are rampant in all across society and certainly in the science as well.
This is why we clearly see a problem where women aren't as represented in sciences as they should be.
And I think that subsidies can do a very subsidies can be very helpful in solving this in the order of like making it more likely, for several reasons: so first it would it would help because financial incentives always speak incredibly loudly.
So when so when you incentivize something financially with a subsidy it's more likely that this is going to happen.
And then secondarily it also sends a signal that we are going to make, as an active priority, making sure there's more women in science.
So that's also a good way to get this goal and to also send a message to society to empower women.
There's a lot of women there's like a thing called the confidence gap, where a lot of women may like go into college, wanting to go into medical school, but end up deciding that are not cut out for it because they're constantly being like taken down by like male professors who don't take their work seriously, or things similar like that, which is something that I think you can help solve when you're making as an active priority pushing women into the sciences, so that we women feel more empowered and inspired.
And this is also going to have a like a snowball effect over time, because once more women go into the sciences it's going to become a more comfortable place for more women to go into sciences.
So now that we've talked about that, let's talk about why it's just good for society if women more women go into science.
And there's a lot of obvious things there.
So the first and, the first and big reason is that women are incredibly smart and women have a lot to offer in the ways of sciences.
And historically women have made all kinds of like achievements in a society.
Like women in science have had like a long history in science even though they've been suppressed oftentimes and they're not always getting the full credit they deserve, or sometimes even men take credit for the work that women do in the sciences.
It doesn't mean that they haven't been present.
And it's quite simple that when you have more intelligent people in any given field you're going to make it better.
You're gonna have women are going to be able to bring more ideas and more perspectives and more ability to better do research.
And that's gonna be great.
We're probably going to see more breakthroughs.
But it's also likely that the change of perspective can also make it so that there can be more of a focus on scientific research that can be to the betterment of people.
And I think that oftentimes people do scientific research to which it like maybe they find interesting which is why they go into a certain kind of field or something like that.
And I think that if you have more women in the in the sciences, you are also going to be able to better come up with scientific solutions and scientific understanding to the way in which it'll benefit women.
I also think that this would help with things like wage gaps, because sciences often tend to be incredibly higher paying careers and things like that.
But finally I also think this is just a right that women have.
Because in the same way that if a man chooses that he wants to be a scientist rather than a lawyer or any other kind of choice that he makes, that's generally something that we accept as a right.
You have a right to pick your career to a very great extent.
And and insofar as that women are being denied this choice because of historical and current biases in society, the government should do what it can to prevent this through subsidy.
So for all those reasons, subsidize women in science.