We should subsidize journalism, because journalism, the process of of purveying this accurate accurate quality information is absolutely vital to a functioning democracy, and such journalism of good quality is dying out.
So, those are going to be the things I'm going to discuss.
But first, let's talk a little bit about the model, about what exactly subsidizing journalists going to look like.
The way, in which I foresee this being played out, is the government is essentially going to give out grants to am journalist companies am, so could be like, examples could be something like the sun sentinel in florida, am probably not the washington post or the new york times maybe, because I foresee this being used primarily as need based grants, for more local industries or state industries, that are struggling or struggling meet ends meet arm more so.
That's where I think the money should be going.
So let's first start by talking about why journalism is dying out, and then talking about why this death is such a big problem, and about why the subsidies are going to be very good and important.
So, obviously, am it's incredibly difficult for journalists companies to make money these days, and journalists in general to make money these days, and the reason for that is because you can access most things on the internet for free, even if you try to instead of pay having to pay a subscription, you could still have things like an ad blocker, so you can't really profit as a journalist company that way anyway, and it's also often times more convenient for customers and consumers, because instead of having to pay a blanket prescription for all subscription for all the content, you can be more selective and only read the things he wants read online.
So, this is obviously particularly bad for local news, and am not nationalist news	in nature.
But, this presents a very big problem as far as the way in which it's being replaced, and how it does for journalism.
So, obviously the media and journalism are incredibly important to democracy.
There's a reason why freedom of press is a protected first amendment right in the US constitution, because ultimately, everything that's involved in our decisions is reliant on information: when we're deciding on conclusions, when we're deciding on our beliefs, all of these things can, all of our values, and all the things that we think can only be generated based on the experiences we have in the world, and this this could include both our lived experiences, but in a lot of cases, this is based on the things that we read, or the things that we here about, or have as an academic source of discussion, or official source of discussion.
So, this is very important because, in order for there for you to have actually truly like educated beliefs, it's necessary for you to be looking at sources that are of good quality.
Am and that's not good, because when you have traditional journalism, the journalism that is now dying out, it meets this bar in most cases, maybe not fox news, but most cases you have extensive vetting in editing, you have integrity to make sure that it is actually factually true, am, more limited misrepresentation of facts, things like that.
But, the problem is that when you see the the void, that we see being filled out, is overwhelmingly things like fake news that is being pushed out on facebook, am things like that.
For example, like hillary clinton has killed like eight people, and was laughing about it afterwards, nonsense like that can get ten million clicks on facebook, because of the way those algorithms work.
And this is the kind of news it's replacing.
And it's replacing it effectively, because it's much more sensationalist in nature.
But, this creates a society in which you're having much less discourse much less founded in fact, so this is how you get such extreme positions on the right wing , positions that are such like unfounded in education or fact, or reality.
So, this is something that's very bad, and this is also particularly bad not just for the national level, based on those kinds of phenomenons I talked about, but it also limits engagement with the local level, and it makes it so that it's harder to have am good and accurate quality news reporting, on things that happen on the local level, which is quite bad, given that a whole lot of governing, that impacts your day to day life, happens on a local level.
So, for all those reasons we should subsidize journalism.