Banning smoking is a horrible idea.
I think that it would be incredibly unjust, incredibly oppressive, and incredibly harmful.
So let's break all of this down.
Armed first I want to start by talking about how radical this is.
Because, this isn't just talking about banning smoking in public places, which is pretty standard and accepted.
This is about banning the acts of smoking in private as well.
Banning the ability to even access things that are smokeable like cigarettes, like I guess marijuana as well things, like that, or .
And I think that this is incredibly important because it first, is a way in which freedom of choice is going to get restricted, second, I think that this is oppressive to the fact that people use this as a part of religious or spiritual rituals, and third, I think that people are still going to smoke anyway.
So you're just going to see a reliance on like, lower quality goods like worse cigarettes, words bongs, worth whatever people use for smoking.
So let's talk about these things.
Let's first start by talking about choice.
I think that this choice argument is incredibly important because, in a lot of questions in life, there's value they're value based.
There's no right answer to them.
So sure, science says smoking is bad for your health.
Science says that if you smoke cigarettes you're more likely to get lung cancer.
I'm pretty sure that at this point every single person who smoke cigarettes is aware that they are probably going to have at least some semblance of health problems if they smoke too much at whatever rate they do.
Here's the problem.
Smoking can have benefits to people.
Some people say that smoking is relaxing for them.
Some people may think that it makes them like , it improves their mood, it may, like, decrease irritability or things like that.
It may just be like a way in which people live their lives.
Like, those are things that can be important.
So here's the problem.
Why is it that this hard health problem that people see in scary scientific report, why is that any more important to the fact that some people may say, well, this makes my life better, it makes my life happier.
There's no real way to actually value that, there's no real way to actually weigh these things against one another, because they're value based.
They're determined based on what the individual preferences of people are.
So, I think that is incredibly important and this is a clear set of circumstances where the government shouldn't get involved in this.
Because, this is a private decision this is smoking in private, this isn't smoking in public, and, this is a decision that doesn't hurt anyone else.
If someone thinks that having a better mood is worth possibly having like lung cancer in the future, then people can make that decision.
If they want their shorter life to be better than their longer but not as enjoyable life, that's a preference that people have a right to have.
But the next thing I want to talk about is just like the oppressive nature of this because, people don't just smoke cigarettes for pleasure.
People smoke it is a part of deeply held religious or spiritual systems.
Like, there's a famous supreme court case in america called oregon v.
Smith, where there was a banning, with a ban with respect to smoking a peyote.
People smoke peyote, people smoke hookah as a part of religious or spiritual ceremonies.
These are rather common and you're hurting the ability of these people to actualize a deeply spiritual preferences , long standing traditions and longstanding traditions.
And it's not fair that people are going to have to uproot their entire lives just because that this is the way they feel.
And I think that that creates a lot of harm for people.
But, finally, because of all these reason, because of the fact that this is a natural preference people have, and because of the fact that there's deeply held religious and spiritual natures associates with smoking, I think that a lot of people are probably going to smoke anyway.
So I don't think that you want black market cigarettes or black market bowls or pipes or bongs or any of those things, because they're probably going to be a worse quality.
You can't control the fact that like maybe the glass will shatter while you're using it, you can't control the fact that like maybe more toxic elements will go into black market cigarettes or things like that.
I think that, when you keep these industries in the light, you ensure an ability to regulate that.
So, this increases the comparable safetyness.
Even if it's not perfectly safe, it makes it more safe.
And I think that people are probably going to be smoking anyway.
So, for all those reasons, we should not ban smoking.