Astrology brings more harm than good for a pretty basic reason.
It encourages stupidity and simplicity with regards to important questions in life.
But there are also four main areas of reasoning that I'm going to present to you today as for why astrology does more harm than good.
First, it it encourages a belief in the false.
This is incredibly bad because what it ultimately does is it creates a a cultural falling almost, around a legitimization of stupidity.
And the reason for it is because it's obviously accepted that it's entirely junk science and that there is no actual factual nature at all to astrology, so the fact that people buy into it is only just encouraging buying into something that is false.
Now this is quite bad because if people are willing to accept false things as facts in other areas of life, it essentially undermines the process it it undermines their process of fact gathering altogether.
And the reason for this is because if you're not willing to accept facts on certain other things, there's no real guarantee that you'd be willing to listen to facts on more important things than astrology.
Things like global warming, or the like or fake news that has been more prevalent during the most recent election cycle in america.
This is incredibly important because it's the same reasoning facilities at hand, and if you accept fakes fake things in that regard then you are in big trouble.
But the additional thing that I want to talk about is about external sources of control and empowerment.
And I think that this is incredibly important, because I think that by investing in astrology, you're essentially trying to lift blame off of yourself for things that you could have done in your life or the like.
And I think this is incredibly bad, because when you attribute events in your life to just dumb luck, it results in less empowerment for yourself.
I think in a world at which astrology doesn't exist, these people are now going to think that things that are happening to them are happening because of their own individual actions or personality or behavior, and I imagine that's just going to make people feel a whole lot better about themselves which is probably good.
The next problem with astrology is that it's essentially an extortion of the uninformed oftentimes.
When you look at the people who profit off of astrology or astrologists, these people are essentially no better than a common con artist.
And I think that it's incredibly unfair that people oftentimes, maybe with a lack of information or a lack of education, are misled into believing these kinds of things.
And while even if these people made that choice, the the harm of listening to these people and spending their money on that is still a harm nothing the less, and there's a harm of astrology for sure.
But the final problem is with that even if the harms of astrology aren't particularly all that powerful, these harms when looked at in comparison to the good, are certainly going to be a whole lot better.
And this is true for two reasons.
First and foremost because astrology is just false, there's no actual basis behind it, there's no benefits behind it, it doesn't actually help with anything in tangible world and a factual sense.
But as far as perspectives are concerned, it doesn't help a whole lot either, because it's only going to lead to you, if you buy into this, being more likely to be mocked by society.
People are going you're gonna have less critical inputs and things like that.
So I don't actually think that it's even going to make be able to make you feel good because you probably get condemned for all of these kinds of things.
So for all of those reasons, astrology does more harm than good.