We should abolish standardized testing, because people learn in different ways.
It is a waste of time and it is a waste of money.
So, first, why do we think that standardized testing is a problem for different kinds of learners.
Obviously there are good testers and there are bad testers.
The problem with this, is that good testers are oftentimes not actually learning really anything from the process of taking these tests themselves, and the test doesn't even provide a whole lot of value to them.
Just because you're able to memorize a whole bunch of facts, you are able to figure things out on a test, doesn't mean that there's actually any real indication or proof that you've learned anything, or that you're actually prepared to engage with the real world.
However, on the flip side of this there's also obviously bad test takers, and just because somebody isn't necessarily good at taking a test, doesn't mean that they haven't learned skills that can be applied in some way, and it doesn't mean that they're prepared to move on to the next ring, or other things like that, and it certainly doesn't mean that these people have any less degree of intelligence than people that are good test takers.
But additionally, we also think that standardized testing is a waste of time.
Because recognize that when you have a standardized test, it doesn't allow for the specialization that comes with individual classes that people are taking.
So for example, when I was growing up in florida, I was required to take the florida comprehensive assessment test or the FCATs.
And I would have to learn about and I would my teachers would be forced to spend weeks teaching to this test, and this would happen regardless of what level of the class you're taking, so if you're taking more advanced classes you could be having to waste weeks on end making sure to reviewing this basic material, so that way these tests are still going to be passable for students.
And on the flip side, if students are maybe not prepared necessarily to be taking these tests and should be taking other classes for that, this is necessarily a good uses of time as well.
But in addition to it not being applicable to skill level, we don't necessarily think that it's controlled very well for content areas either, because oftentimes the concepts that are covered on these tests are rather basic concepts, rather broad concepts, concepts that can't necessarily be applied to a whole lot of things, and things that are ultimately not all that important to actually learn about or know about anyway.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is about how this is a waste of time.
And the reason I think sorry, that this is a waste of money.
And I think that it's very important to talk about money and its relation to this, because keep in mind that there's an opportunity cost with education spending, and that every dollar that is spent administering standardized test is money that could actually be spent on making schools better, it's it's money that could be spent on better textbooks, on paying teachers more.
And this is especially important given that oftentimes education budgets are among the first things that get slashed by governments in times of recessions or hardships.
So why do we think that standardized tests are a waste of money.
Because I think that the costs that come with them are oftentimes quite high.
For example, you need to make sure that you pay for all of the booklets and all the scantrons that get used.
Oftentimes these things are costly in and of itself since you need millions of them.
You also need machines to read the tests, and you need also proctors or graders to administer the test and look over tests and grade tests, you have to pay for the hours of those people.
You have to administer trainings for people so they are prepared to teach how to teach to the test.
And you also have to provide money to question researchers, question triers, things like that as well.
All of those costs can eventually stack up and pile up, and they could be all of that money, each dollar of that money could be used anywhere else.
And it is for all of those reasons that we are incredibly that I'm incredibly proud to propose that we abolish standardized testing.