We should ban fracking because fracking is horrible for the environment, and it's going to be horrible for well so it's bad for the environment in the short term, it's gonna be bad for the environment in the long term, and it's also bad for people in the short term and the long term.
So all of these those things are bad.
So, let's start by why it's really bad for the environment in the short term.
These things are really obvious.
When you look at the data of like seismic disturbances in places where fracking is happening, places like pennsylvania, places like north dakota, you start to see an alarming trend emerge.
And this trend is that places that aren't on active fault lines, places that aren't really known for having any kind of particular history of seismic activity are suddenly seeing like micro earthquakes and sometimes even major earthquakes.
These plays are seeing like sinkholes, these places are seeing all kinds of like clear signs of environmental contamination and environmental destruction.
And these kinds of things have a huge impact on people in the sense that like when there's like a like a earthquakes in places where they aren't usually happening or where there're sinkholes that are happening that just like randomly, and these can be be massive sinkholes, that can swallow up people's houses.
Obviously those are really critical problems.
But when you look at it in a broader sense too, the picture that fracking paints isn't any less dire.
Because when you're injecting chemicals into the ground, injecting chemicals into wells that people oftentimes draw water from, when you're injecting chemicals into the ground that ultimately then when there's rain results in runoff, which goes into local food supplies, local water supplies, and all other kinds of things, what you end up seeing is you see widespread contamination.
You see the very same aluminum alloys and sands that are getting injected into the earth ultimately end up in like water that can get and like absorbed by food.
And that happens because like once you put something into the ground, you can't just accept that you can't just expect it to sit there under the earth.
That's not the way the environment works.
There's things are oftentimes like moving around, constantly being moved around by forces like wind, rain, earth moves like earth movement in itself, and other kinds of natural forces.
So all of these kinds of pollutions eventually end up in like ultimately hurts humans as well.
This is the same way in like, for example, when you like put lead somewhere, and like the lead it like obviously if you're not if you're like in like just like around lead, that can be really harmful for you.
In the same way, that's like a big problem with like other kinds of chemicals that we commonly use in humans for humans.
Because when these things get absorbed into our food, whether it's like an aluminum alloy or whatever the hell they put into these chemicals that they use to break up rock, literally chemicals that break up rock can be seeping into our food supply.
I don't think that's something that sounds very good to any reasonable, thinking person.
But besides all of those other kinds of impacts, let's look beyond that to the impact this has in the longer term, the impact that this has on global warming, and the impact that this has on our ability to convert over to a cleaner economy.
And I think that this is really bad as well.
Because we're investing such large quantities of money in the fracking boom essentially that when we put all of this upfront investment into fracking, it's definitely going to keep being cheaper to do fracking.
It'll be keep being cheaper to rely on fossil fuels and other kind of polluting fuels as opposed to green technologies, and the big reason for that is because instead of investing in better green technologies, we're funneling all this money into better ways to break apart the earth and just and get chemicals into the earth so we can get oil out of it.
So for all those reasons, we should absolutely ban fracking to help combat global warming, to help combat food contamination and pollution, and to help combat the like horrible seismic consequences that come with it.
So for all those reasons, ban fracking.