We should eliminate unesco because unesco is a waste of money and its mission itself isn't really a necessary one.
So let's start by talking about why unesco is a waste of money.
And it's important to recognize that the united the united nations does a lot of important work in the world.
Whether it's like the UN human rights program or UN programs focused on poverty poverty reduction and international aid and things like that.
There's a good deal of work that the UN does in the world in in form of helping people's lives.
And that's a big reason why we don't need unesco.
Because all of those things that the UN does are more important than unesco.
So for starters I think that there's necessarily this is, this is like pretty obvious.
Obviously you should prioritize like feeding people who are dying of starvation, or helping people cure like diseases or prevent diseases through like education and like infrastructure to combat disease and things like that.
Those kinds of things are like clearly more important than like facilitating cultural exchange or like university research or things like that.
First and foremost because I think that those things are more urgent.
If people are like like need like food to survive that's probably more important than like like other kinds of issues, cultural issues, even if those things aren't necessarily like bad things, and secondarily because I think the money is necessarily finite.
And a big reason for that is because governments are only willing to give so much money to the UN.
The UN only has so much money to spend.
So all of the money that it can spend that it does spend with unesco is money it's not spending on other kinds of programs that could better help people.
But the next thing, and the big reason why we should eliminate unesco is that a lot of it is redundant.
There's dozens of academic programs all around the world that facilitate research and exchange.
Like private universities are all the time facilitating research and exchange.
Professors go to other, like professors go on sabbaticals, professors go on exchange programs, students go on exchange programs.
There's a like a whole slew of international and regional organizations designed to facilitate the expansion and exchange of knowledge.
So the so you unesco doesn't really do anything particularly unique in that regard.
Because all of the things that it does do are things that other organizations can do just as well.
So in a lot of ways it's just an incredibly redundant organization.
But additionally, other parts of its mission, like expanding global understandings of justice, or expanding things like human rights or things like that are even more redundant.
Like you literally have the united nations human rights program.
So if you have like a literal program that is designed to actually deal with those kinds of things, I don't know why you would need to have a redundant thing.
And beyond that, a lot of these things are oftentimes also also times like western like western focused in a really problematic way.
Because oftentimes what culture should be looking like, what is important in a culture, what is important to preserve or non preserve, what an ideal of justice is or isn't, all of those things are oftentimes, a lot of those can be relative based on your culture.
And I think that it should be something that's necessarily left up to an international organization then, but should be more left to regional governments to operate in in how they see fit.
So for all those reasons we should get rid of unesco.