We should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
Last wednesday, in a place in parkland, florida, majority stoneman douglas, there were seventeen people, many young students in high school, who were shot and killed, and that place, parkland florida, is about fifteen minutes away from where I grew up.
And I think it makes me incredibly proud and also powerful in the way in which we just need to ban firearms in our society right now, because the gun crisis that is taking place in america is widespread, it's systemic, and its resulting in thousands and thousands of people dying senselessly to appease a small minority of people who are, essentially, gun-toting buffoons, and criminal organizations like the NRA which are propping up murder in order to line their own pockets, and gun manufacturers who want to protect their own profit margins and put their money over actual human lives.
So let's start by grounding down what the gun crisis actually looks like in america right now, because I think that there is three interwoven ways in which the widespread presence of guns affects this.
For starters, america has more guns per person than any other country in the world.
The next closest country after america is yemen.
So america, literally, has more guns per person than yemen, which is one of the biggest humanitarian crises and war zones in the entire world.
This incredible widespread availability of guns is further manifested by the ease of getting guns.
The place if you live in florida, for example, it's easier to buy a gun than to buy a beer, than to buy birth control, or to even rent a fucking car.
So you can get a gun with almost limited identification.
You don't even need a driver's license in a lot of places, but you can still get a gun.
And this creates a whole lot of problems, three to be exact.
First, there's a epidemic of gun suicides which doesn't always get as much attention but is, nevertheless, a huge problem, where the amount of gun deaths are incredibly common.
Next, there's also the problems of gun-related accidents where you have, time and time again, people die from accidental misfires, oftentimes, younger people in households.
You additionally have common crimes that are further made even worse by guns, whether it's just an argument that somebody has or a or a typical robbery or something like that, the widespread prevalence of guns makes it more likely that any given situation is going to escalate into something fatal.
Because when in like some other kind of reality, you can maybe have a break-in where people are only using weapons like knives, when you have guns that are involved, it makes it all the more likely that someone is just going to get fatally shot.
And then, finally, you have the problem of mass mass shootings which is, in a lot of ways, a uniquely american problem which needs to be solved, where thousands and thousands of people die, where there's been way more people who have died of mass shootings than terrorist attacks, and not nearly enough has been done by this.
So, the only way that we can actually meaningfully solve this is completely eliminating the right to bear arms.
As long as the right to bear arms exist, unless we ban guns completely and have mandatory buyback programs where you have to surrender your guns to the government or else face criminal felony charges, you're not going to see these things get solved.
If we lived in a world in which like people were we live in a world where people are dying by the thousands of a completely preventable problem, because I don't think that you have a genuine right to self-defense to the point where it makes it more likely that everyone is else is going to be less safe in society.
Because even if you think so highly of yourself and your skills with your guns, or you really truly love your guns and you think you can protect yourself with it, the fact is is that tens of thousands of people die because of the widespread availability of guns.
And it has to end, and it should end now, and it will work.
So for all those reasons, we should ban guns.