We should keep temporary employment because temporary employment is often good for employees and it's often good for employers.
So let's start by talking about why temporary employment is oftentimes pretty good for employees.
The first and the most obvious set of circumstances is you may want your employment to be temporary because you can only work for a temporary amount of time.
So let's say that like you're looking for a summer job, let's say that you're planning on moving soon, maybe you want a job for a few months before like college starts or anything like that.
You're going to want your employment to be temporary because there shouldn't be really an expectation that you're going to stay any longer than the amount of time that you're already going to stay for.
It's not great if you feel that like looking for a job you're going to be tied down and moreover, if the law is that the employment has to be long term, employers are going to be looking for longer term commitments.
They're not going to be looking for short term employees and that's gonna be a problem for you.
So it means that for like people who are in transition, people who want like a short term job, people who may be able to get it a different job in the long term, they just need something as a stop gap, all of these kinds of people are hurt by this kind of a policy and that's not really great.
Additionally though, temporary employment is also good for business and it's good for growing business and supporting business which is important.
So the biggest reason why it's important is that oftentimes businesses don't need full time employees for certain kinds of tasks.
So let's say that like for example you want higher like a janitor and you want the janitor to do some stuff and maybe but they're not going to be like working full time and you don't actually need them for all that often or maybe you want to hire somebody to let's say like give speeches to help IBM develop AI or something like that and you don't necessarily need them to be on staff forever because the projects not gonna take forever.
There is like a whole very very wide range of scenarios in which businesses are doing some kind of project-based activity, a contract-based activity or something like that where they don't just envision the role being a full time role so it would be rather foolish to pretend that it's a full time role and to almost mislead the person that you're hiring for the position that this is going to be a full like a fall permanent position when a lot of positions aren't like that.
A lot of jobs just don't need to last forever and that's something that can be very important to a lot of businesses because if you have the option of temporary employment, it allows you to better plan out your finances, it allows you to be more up front about what your expectations are to your employer's and to your to your employees, things that are pretty important for businesses.
So for all those reasons, we should not ban temporary employment.