ADHD management brings more good than harm because at the end of the day it leads to the recognition of a real issue that people have, and it fosters a sense of need and creates solutions to these problems, and at the end of the day there's no real harm that's associated with attempts for ADHD management.
So even if the good isn't all that present, since there's very minimal harm, it's something that you should just keep doing.
So, let's start by talking about ADHD and why I think that it's a real issue, that it's important for us to talk about.
Because it's not just some coincidence or some kind of like aberration that we've seen millions of millions of people in america being diagnosed with ADHD, and I think that there is to a large extent some biological reasons that have been like documented and are reasons why people have ADHD.
But it additionally can be the result of the way in which people in a new generation grow up.
When you grow up with a lot of technology and things like that, a lot of different entertainment options, and just in like day to day lives based on the way a lot of young people grow up nowadays, there's much more of an emphasis on ability to multitask, much more of an emphasis on keeping your attention divided on various things in a technologically advanced world.
So, I think that what this ultimately does is it does mean that it's for a lot of people legitimately more difficult to focus, that they just truly struggle on focus and that while they may be much better off focusing on multiple things at once, their skills aren't on more precise focus, on an individual task for a longer amount of time.
So this is a very real problem that we need to combat because this ultimately does hurt people for like tests, college and education, but also for jobs and inability to focus on things.
These are real problems that people have when they're not able to focus.
So it's definitely something that you want to fix.
And luckily we do have solutions that are like at least somewhat effective and using them oftentimes.
First of all, you can have medications.
These medications, oftentimes you don't even need to give someone with ADHD more than a small dosage of something like adderall a ritalin in order to actually start to see some of the effects of it.
In order to start to see people able to get more focused.
And at such small doses, even though they have a good affect on people, this isn't really going to bring a whole lot of possibility for harm or dependence or any of these other kinds of problems.
But even on the more extreme ends, these are ultimately rather like low risk drugs as long as you use them in the way that a doctor prescribes which is the same risk as any other drug.
And I think that it's therefore not all that bad that people are taking these drugs, that there's no real significant harms associated with them but the benefits are documented quite well.
Additionally I also think that behavioral changes and trying to make some more like lifestyle lifestyle changes as a part of ADHD management can also just be more positive.
If you're trying to like help you structure a lifestyle better in a way that's more conducive to focus, I don't see how you can say this actually is bringing harm to someone's life.
You're trying to help people individually, help their lives so they're better able to focus better in a more structured setting.
These are just clearly good things.
I don't know why you would say that they bring harm.
And that's the final thing I want to talk about.
About that I don't really think that any of these procedures have real harm.
I think that where the real harm lies is in not recognizing ADHD as an actual disease, as an actual impairment it's something that we need to do something to combat, and I think that management certainly brings a lot of good and that there's no real cost a lot of these things except willingness to embrace the management or the techniques themselves, which I think are ultimately going to make people's lives better.
So for all those reasons very proud to propose.