We should not ban strip clubs because there's really nothing wrong with strip clubs.
There's nothing wrong with going to a strip club, and there's nothing wrong with working at a strip club either.
So let's start by talking about why there really isn't any harm, obviously, in just going to a strip club and having fun for a night.
And I think that that's really the core of it.
Nobody really gets hurt when you're talking about just going to a strip club.
People choose to work in these places and they're just places where you go to have a good time.
Maybe you go with some friends, you go before like somebody's wedding, or just because like somebody broke up with their significant other and you wanna like blow off some steam or whatever, or for whatever reason.
It's something that people do, it doesn't hurt anyone, and people should be able to enjoy their life, make choices about how they enjoy their life the way they want to.
And if people find it like enjoyable to have somebody like grind on top of them dance on top of them in like scantily clad close, which like a lot of people find that like to be reasonably enjoyable, then you should be able to do that.
Like who cares?
It's not a really, it's not really a big deal.
But the other thing is that like you should definitely obviously be allowed to work as a stripper if you want to.
And this is like a very clear things.
So you should have the right to do what you want with your body.
Like your body, if there's anything that you have ownership over, if there is anything that like you ought have like control over, its your literal body.
It's like an incredibly important thing to you.
And beyond that, beyond just having the right to have control over your body and what you should be able to do with your body, another thing that's reasonably acceptable that you should be able to do which is generally accepted a lot of western liberal democracies is that you should be able to do what you want with your life as far as career choices are concerned.
You can choose to be a lawyer or a doctor or a firefighter or a police officer and there's really nothing wrong with being a stripper.
There's nothing wrong with working as a at a strip club.
And you should be able to do that if you want to make money that way.
A lot of the people who work in strip clubs are younger people, often relying on it for supplemental income or some kind of income, maybe while they're in classes or in between jobs or something like that.
And if you're like, if you're hot enough to work at a strip club then like good for you.
Get supplemental income that way.
You shouldn't have your career choices arbitrarily restricted like that.
Like, people like me who are hot enough to work at a strip club, get supplemental income from giving IBM speeches.
But a lot of people wouldn't get paid to give debate speeches.
So they should be able to make money in other ways.
Just how I could make supplemental income my way to help pay my bills.
It's really like an unfair standard.
In a lot of ways almost like targeting people's sexuality and like targeting people's bodies and like trying to almost shame people away from displaying their bodies or taking or using their bodies to make money, which is absolutely ridiculous.
Like using your body to make money is only different, in terms of like weird people's weird moral frameworks, any different than using your mind to make money.
Because at the end of the day you're just using a part of your body, whether it's your brain or your body, and you're going to make money that way.
That's like: good for you.
You should do what you want to do.
So for all those reasons don't then strip clubs.