We should ban racial profiling for two reasons.
First because it's a violation of rights and second because it actually makes people less safe.
So first, why is racial profiling a violation of rights?
Let's start by looking at the fact that it is an inherent rights violation.
Why is this true?
Because the because by the lottery of birth, people don't really have any control over where they're born into.
That's not something that you actually choose, you don't choose the color of your skin.
Or the religion that you grow up with, it's probably picked out by your parents.
So why do we think that this is important?
Because when you are profiling somebody on the base of their race, especially assuming criminality or terrorist motives to the basis of their race, or to a heightened presumption that they might be a perpetrator of such an action, it assigns blame to a race where it presumes blame onto a predominant group of people rather than assigning blame to individual people.
This is an incredibly big problem.
Because what it essentially is is a form of discrimination, because it means that the reason why someone is committing a crime is because they're a criminal because they have bad morals but that doesn't have anything to do with the color of their skin or the way in which they grew up.
But this is additionally yeah besides this just being an inherent rights violation we also believe that this will likely be a rights violation in the way that it's applied.
Why?
Because oftentimes police are able to take advantage of the leniency of society when it comes to safety measures.
This is very true in america, obviously, where you see shootings of unarmed black men on a tragically regular basis.
And that oftentimes convictions rarely if if ever follow and penalties are hardly ever more than a slap on the wrist.
This is clearly evident of a culture in which these things are permissible but additionally society also just scares easily.
You hear about instances of street harassment and bullying, acts of hate crimes against people, acts of hate crimes against muslims and islamophobia as rampant and these things are oftentimes stroked by media fears and when you and when you allow the use of racial profiling it essentially legitimizes that race can be a characteristic that could lead you wanting to identify somebody as a terrorist in the media and things like that.
So then I also think makes is like quite a violation of their rights because this is simply undeserved on their part.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is that I actually think that this makes society less safe.
Why is this true?
So first because it creates a presumption of where the threat is coming from, or expectation of who is actually threatening you that is ultimately not all that helpful in actually fighting threats.
Why?
Because terrorists and criminals belong to people of all races and religions and that just because some more happen to be come from some groups of people other than other groups of people when there is racial profiling allowed it usually focuses on the most prevalent groups.
This often comes at the expense of us not considering the threats that can come from people whom we may not expect them to come from.
So this ultimately makes you less safe in a lot of ways too.
But this is finally going to make people less safe because of the way in which the targeted groups of racial profiling react to this.
So even if you can make arguments that this isn't actually a violation of rights, the reality is is that the people involved in this, the people being targeted by this, do believe it is a rights violation.
What does this mean?
It means that it's just another example of society condemning these people who are already oftentimes not treated very well in society at large so I think that if anything this is going to make it more likely that people are going to, on the margins, turn to extremism or terrorism or more radical sects altogether.
And this is because they're going to be seen as less accepted by mainstream society.
They're not going to ever feel like they're secure in their own identity.
This is an incredibly this is incredibly messed up thing and it ultimately only makes it our society less safe and less secure.
So for all of those reasons we should definitely ban racial profiling.