Television does more good than harm for two main reasons: first because all of the alleged harms are ultimately utter nonsense that aren't actually specific to television but more so specific to human nature itself and secondarily because television is an incredibly enriching part of the human experience.
It can enhance the human existence and your very life itself.
So, first, why do I actually not think that there is that many great harms that are associated with television?
So, whether it's allegations that it leads to laziness or encourages procrastination or encourages obesity or this other an entire parade of horrors that are associated with television, I don't actually think that that's really specific to television.
I think that human beings oftentimes look for look for a means or a mode by which to actualize on them not wanting to do unpleasant things like their work, maybe, or not wanting to do, like, unpleasant things like their like, something else in their life and TV is merely the outlet by which they choose to do so.
People could read books instead of people could read books that also have cliffhanger endings oftentimes at the end of chapters if they don't want to do their work, people can play video games if they don't want to do these kinds of things, so I actually think that there's a whole lot of unique offense there.
And the same is often true of the content itself because when people allege that oh, while they people try to make money off the fact sex and violence sells, obviously this is the same in other mediums too, like when you look at books like fifty shades of gray, it's hard to say that this isn't also the way in which this sells in other mediums as well.
So, none of the harms that are allegedly associated with television are all that specific to television themselves, however, the benefits that come with television are quite unique and important to television.
So, what are the reasons why television is great for the human experience?
I think that there are two big areas of argumentation under this, the first of which is that the act of watching television itself, in a lot of ways irrespective of the content, the act of watching television itself is good for people's mental health in that it stimulates relaxation, it's essentially just turning off and it's turning off and going into, like, another world in a lot of ways after a day, whether it's like you're watching a TV show that you like or you're watching sports, it essentially creates a very easy window of entertainment for you, entertainment that is oftentimes quite necessary when you're on a weekend or after a long days of work, something that's incredibly important for your own well-being in life and something that we shouldn't overlook in society.
But in addition to the act itself of watching TV being relaxing and enriching, I also think that a lot of the content itself oftentimes gets a bad reputation and can be quite good.
So, first and foremost, it's just obvious that while maybe you can argue that at worst, some television is bad, that doesn't really make a whole lot of sense or is all that compelling because there's also a whole lot of very good television that I'm sure a whole lot of people watch and appreciate as well, certainly I think the television that I watch is rather good and of course, sports are very sports are great, so those are like, good to watch too.
But I think that in a lot of ways, the stories that come out of it the stories and narratives that come out of TV shows can be incredibly enriching for your lives they can, like, teach you about other worlds that you haven't experienced, they can teach you about other experiences that you haven't experienced, they can be funny, they can be sad, they can tap into your emotions, things that are incredibly important parts of your lives, things that can be incredibly entertaining.
They also can just bring more enjoyment to your life, they can bring more perspective to your life on certain things because oftentimes, TV shows can be incredibly educational by teaching you perspectives that you haven't experienced before because TV shows are oftentimes at, like, the various perspectives of people in society.
They're the perspective of a police officer, the perspective of a lawyer, the perspective of a minority.
You can oftentimes learn a whole lot of different things from, like, a narrative-based show that oftentimes comes from TV.
So, I think that you can learn a whole lot from the stories, you can learn a whole lot from the society which it comes out of, these kinds of things.
So, I think at the end of the day, television certainly does more good than harm, especially because in addition to the obvious good, there isn't a whole lot of harm that can be directly attributed to television anyway.