No, we should not further exploit small modular reactors for two big reasons.
First, because I think that the exploitation of small modular reactors as a form of nuclear energy would necessarily come at the expense of superior alternatives like solar energy or hydroelectric energy or other kinds of green technology, and additionally I think that it would lead to nuclear proliferation which is not very good for the safety of anyone.
So, let's start by talking about the first one, the opportunity cost this presents, because I think that people , you're talking about two different kinds of technologies that you're going to invest a lot of money up front in.
To set up a small modular reactor or to set up possibly a bunch of solar panels, and wind farms or things like that.
Like, these are both new things that are going to be deviations from the status quo, and they're going to require up front investment.
So in order to do that, you're going to see a lot of people choosing which one are they going to invest in for their like, for a move for a more recent alternate source of energy.
And I think that this is important because as we can see from like current infrastructure in america and a lot of other places around the world, like infrastructure isn't always all that up to date, it's something that it's easy to what you have it leave it behind and not do all that much updating of it, so I think that it's really it's really important make sure that we target the initial breakthrough in the decision that we're making.
And I think that people, when they're choosing what would be best, and have limited money to invest and they have little money for what they're purchasing.
So, I think that when you have as an option small modular reactors, people are going to be tempted to pick that over green technology.
But I think that's inherently bad because you want to have an emphasis on things that are going to be more environmentally friendly than the nuclear energy.
I also think that they're going, it's going to be just more stable in the long term because you're not going to have to worry about like something running out you're not going to worry about the like, use of all these resources, and it's also eventually going to be cheaper.
Because recognize that while it may be like right now not , it while it may be more economically efficient right now to invest in nuclear energy than certain kinds of less efficient green technology, that's going to change in the near future because of a lot of investment.
However if that investment comes and the prices go down too late when people are already using a different source of technology or unwilling to change, then you're not actually going to be getting a lot of solutions for these problems.
So, I think that eventually green technology is going to be cheaper because is so easy to just like , rely on like the sun, you don't have to have like, just having a panel that soaks in sunlight or things like that, once that's sufficient enough to be done in a really effective way, that's going to be way easier and way cheaper than having immense operations and reactors and facilities to do all these things.
So, now that all that is established, let's talk about the second reason why small modular reactors are bad, and that it would lead to widespread nuclear proliferation which is very very bad.
So nuclear proliferation is bad because , well, it's bad in that the small modular reactors is a form of nuclear energy obviously require uranium and uranium can be, uranium is bad for two big reasons.
First because it can be very dangerous for accidents.
So obviously small modular reactors they may be newer, they may be more efficient and up to date, they may even be more secure, but the fact that there's going to be more of them in more spread out locations, especially because it's oftentimes difficult to get consistent standards of quality and maintenance and security and things like that, you're going to be making it much more likely that some kind of accident is going to happen.
Maybe like like get it like, worst case explosion more minor situation could be like a leak or a melt down, it could be like a leak or it could be a spillage of some kind, that would be very very bad.
But additionally this could also mean that maybe weapons could be more likely to because there's gonna be more of a widespread network of access to uranium.
So like maybe it'll be easier for people to enrich uranium uranium two which would be very very bad.
So, for all those reasons, we should not further exploit small modular reactors.