Slum tourism does more harm than good, because at the end of the day, it doesn't help anything, but it makes people think they're helping, which means they're less likely to do things that are actually helpful.
So, let's break that down.
First, by why slum tourism doesn't actually help anything.
The first reason for this is an obvious one: just visiting a slum, or touring a slum, doesn't actually help ameliorate the obvious hardships that exists there.
Being aware of a problem doesn't actually mean that you're taking action to help that problem.
If you make things like donations, maybe that would be one thing, but oftentimes, just being aware of a problem, or simply going to a problem, that doesn't really have any actual impact on it.
But, additionally, there's oftentimes only limited efficacy that comes from these kinds of things anyway.
So, even if you go there, and you do you basic volunteer work, or basic donations, that doesn't actually make any kind of meaningful dent in the much more structural problems, that are the reason why slums exist in the first place.
But, the additional thing I want to talk about this, is about this is oftentimes can be quite demeaning to people, because in a lot of ways it's essentially almost, putting up the hardships and struggles that people face as, like, this tourist attraction.
It's, in a lot of ways, almost strikes as zoo-like, and it's it's incredibly messed up in a whole lot of ways, because it essentially commodified, it allows people to, it allows like corporate corporations and tourism industry to profit off of that.
People who make the like tacky souvenirs to ' prof ' off these kinds of things, ' prof ' off the legitimate struggles those people are facing.
That's something that's incredibly messed up, and I often don't think that the slum tourism industry actually helps the people, that are suffering all of that anywhere near the amount that it should.
The next reason, why slum tourism does more harm than good though, is because it results in an illusion of solvency.
So, when people think that they are doing good, there's a very natural response, un and that natural response is to first, not really push for change in policies, because if you think that you're already doing good, then you're not necessarily going to be, as likely to be, an ardent defender of things like, problematic trade policies, or economically are like, our hard imperialist policies, like the way in which the war on drugs has ravaged the whole lot of places in south america, or or diamond trades, or like valuable mineral trades in places in africa.
All of these kinds of things, or oil in other parts of the world, like all of these are examples of the fact that, there's oftentimes incredibly problematic policies that exist, or government irresponsibility, like the US government propping up dictators if they're advantageous to them.
All of these are oftentimes, like, structural reasons why slums exists in the first place, and, if you think that you're doing good in your own way that's not actually all that helpful, you're not supporting ways that, are going to be a whole lot more helpful, to actually ameliorating those problems.
So, that's, it makes you more close minded, which is incredibly bad, but, the additional thing is that, I think that ultimately this is just a cover, and it's a cover to deflect the blame that you feel on yourself, for the daily immoralities that you put up, or the contributions that you make, to the reason why these people are in slums in the first place.
Whether it's the clothes that you're probably wearing, or the phones that you're probably using, or the coffee that you're probably drinking, all of those can likely be source to rather unhealthy, unsafe, and unsavory working conditions, and this is a big problem, because, in a lot of ways, the fact that we're willing to accept these things of in the name of like, these products, in the name of like cheap labor, we're oftentimes only contributing to the problems that exist there, and it's for all of those reasons that, slum tourism does more harm.