We should keep the speed limit, because abolishing the speed limit is quite dangerous.
So, I think that you can have a reasonable debate, over whether the speed limit should be raised or lowered in a lot of circumstances, but as far as just outright getting rid of the speed limit, I think that's an incredibly dangerous action to do, and I think that the biggest reason for that, is because people are incredibly poor at actually making judgments on their safety, as far as driving is concerned.
One of the biggest reason, why there's a gazillion accidents every year, is because people are just bad at judging: people are bad at judging distances, people are bad at being attentive at all times, because they get distracted by their phone, or their music, or their friend or significant other that's in the car with them, or any other kinds of things, because other drivers on the road can get similarly distracted by these kinds things, there's all different kinds of reasons why people get distracted.
But moreover, I think one of the biggest things is, that people are people tend to assume that they can just drive as fast as they want, and there's not going to be any problems, because the only people who's going to cause an accident is somebody else, and that they're insulated from making mistakes, and if there's an accident, it's going to be someone else's fault.
But, the problem is, is that most people think that way, and most people attribute more confidence to their own driving abilities than are probably actually true, and that's why we have so many accidents.
So, the problem is that, while obviously people speed to some extent, speed limits are still good for a couple of reasons.
First, I think that speed limits, while people are often going to speed, say ten miles over the speed limit anyway, having a speed limit is ultimately a cap on that.
People aren't going to want to speed thirty miles over the speed limit, because a lot of places, like, at least in america, if you go thirty miles over speed limit, that's a felony, and you could get in very big trouble.
So, even if there are still some degree of danger, that people are going to speed anyway, I think that it's important to concern that, like, speeding isn't this binary thing, like, the like the faster you speed the more dangerous it gets, and having a speed limit is a good way to deter this.
But, I also think that there is an incredible degree of deterrence effect here, because people don't wanna get people don't wanna get fined by police departments, and also people don't want to see their insurance premiums for auto insurance go up, if they get a speeding ticket, because that is what happens.
So, while people are sometimes going to speed anyway, there is a good deterrence effect, as far as.
So, obviously speeding could be something that's inherently dangerous.
If you're going like a hundred miles an hour on the highway, and something happens, you slip, like, like your car slips, or skids, or something like that, like, any kind of accident that happens is going to be magnified, in terms of possibility of casualties, and in terms of possibility of pile ups, and all these things.
Because like, you have less time to react, if the car is going faster it can't stop as quickly, there's all kinds of obvious reasons why the faster you're going, the more dangerous you could be.
And that's an important thing to consider, this is just as true on highways, as it is in residential communities, where like a kid could be on the street, or like somebody's dog, or any of these other kinds of things, that could cause accidents.
Faster you're going, the more dangerous it is.
We should definitely keep speed limits, proud to oppose.