Genetically modified crops bring more harm than good for two main reasons.
First, because they monopolize control of farming to massive western corporations, and secondarily, they're not good for the environment.
So let's first start by talking about what genetically modified crops actually look like in practice, and how the farming industry is changed when this system is used, as opposed to more traditional farming mechanisms that exist.
So, when you look at genetically modified crops and their proliferation, it's rather misleading to say that sixty eight percent profit increases have been seen for farmers, because in reality farmers aren't actually seeing these increases in profits.
Corporations like monsanto are seeing this increase in profits, and the reason for this is because they are allowed to, as a result of intellectual property laws, essentially have ownership over the seeds themselves, have ownership over the modified crops strains itself.
So, this comes with a rather profound impact, because it means that farmers essentially in order to be competitive are forced to buy into genetically modified organisms, and are forced to pay much higher rates for these kinds of crops.
So this means that local farmers are oftentimes priced out.
Local farmers simply aren't able to compete and they're oftentimes not able to make enough money to actually make a living for themselves, all farmers, so being a farmer ultimately becomes something that's less profitable.
But it also means that you're going to be less likely to serve towards your more like local or domestic market, and you're much more likely going to produce more commercialized strains of crops, things that ultimately aren't actually going to be as useful to fulfill the individual dietary needs of your area.
So rather than growing maybe a more diverse array of food, you're more likely going to simply focus on only building on only growing things like maybe modified wheat or things like that, which is ultimately going to lead to you having less of the diversity in the foods that you grow as well.
But in addition to the harms that this has for local farmers, we also think that this is incredibly bad for the environment.
So, it's obvious that genetically modified crops are designed so that they can have a good short term result in in terms of their ability to be resistant to diseases and the like, because obviously they're modified sometimes to be pesticide resistant.
But the problem that comes with this is the process of genetically modifying crops means you're going to sacrifice the diversity of strains of different crops, you're going to have less different kinds of a similar crops, you'll have maybe less kinds of avocado, less kinds of orange, in order to have the one ideal modified kind of crop.
Now, this crop may have short term immunities to certain diseases, however ultimately diseases evolve and adapt in order to infect these kinds of organisms.
So this window is only going to be short term at best.
And this is actually quite bad, because you're much more likely going to see, since there's going to be a unified like one single strain.
If there is any one disease that is able to infect this strain, it's going to have much wider impacts.
So in a lot of ways biodiversity is incredibly important, because it's a built-in safety net against the eradication of entire like pools of a species or entire genes, because it ultimately makes sure that a virus can only infect so so many aspects of a gene tree.
However this protection goes away when you have genetically modified crops, because they're all going to be the same.
So you don't have this kind of similarity against that.
So in the likely event that a genetically so like in the likely event that an greater disease is going to infect crops, you're much more likely going to have things like food shortages, things that are going to be quite bad.
But finally, this is also bad for the environment because it encourages the growth of food in places that maybe it shouldn't be grown.
If food can't naturally grow somewhere, then it probably shouldn't be growing somewhere, and oftentimes growing food in places that it shouldn't be grown can be pretty bad for the environment.
You can sap the soil of its natural nutrients, that way other plants can't grow, oftentimes the process of growing means you're going to cut down other things that have been already existing there, so habitat destruction is going to be more likely.
There's a whole lot of reasons why people shouldn't be growing in a lot of these places.
And all of those things are more likely to happen when you have genetically modified crops.
So for all of those reasons, genetically modified crops bring more harm than good.