We should not increase gun control.
Instead we should try to make sure that there are some protections to ensure responsible use of guns.
However I do not think that we necessarily have to regulate guns themselves and I actually think there's problems associated with that.
So I wanna start by talking about what we actually see as the the biggest problem.
Because I think that while it's oftentimes maybe like alluring to look at instances of like gun massacres as evidence of gun problems in places like america.
In the vast majority of gun violence cases these aren't actually the bigger problems.
The vast majority of gun violence in america comes from one of two things: first of all it comes from just accidents - the fact that a lot of people have guns and don't necessarily are able to like responsibly get them.
But that's not because the guns themselves so much as we don't have enforcement on responsible ownership of guns, but that doesn't mean that we don't have to necessarily cut off ownership itself.
It could just mean, for example, you could require somebody to more securely lock up their gun so that a toddler can't get access to it by accident.
Or you require more classes on gun ownership and gone maintenance, or conflict the escalation training and things like that.
The second thing though is that in addition to the fact that there's like accidents associated with it, a lot of gun violence just comes from not legal guns.
And this is true because like if you have a criminal record of any kind, it's not like you can just get a gun, and a huge amount of gun violence is regarding people who like already is done by people who already have criminal records who may not otherwise have the means to like access guns, so they're usually done via like illegal channels.
And here's the problem: you're not going to be able to really cut that off no matter what, because there's always going to be a supply of guns.
Like there's global gun suppliers on the black market, there's people in america who do these kinds of things to, and there's always gonna be people willing to buy and willing to sell.
It's, in the same way in that there's always gonna be people willing to buy marijuana, there's always going to be people willing to have weapons.
It's just kind of a fact of human nature in that there's a lot of violence and that this isn't going to go away.
So given that, you should recognize that if you're going to be fighting someone who may have a gun, or there's a possibility of a gun, having a gun yourself is definitely a valuable tool for self defense.
As long as you're like properly trained in it and actually know how to use the gun, it can definitely be a useful form of self defense in a lot of legitimate cases, some of them can be incredibly important.
But I think that, yeah.
But the second thing that I want to talk about is about how it's better, it's , under this is that it's better that guns are regulated in this regard than unregulated.
Because if it's legal gun ownership, you're also going to be able to know like if the who is like the owner of a weapon, or things like that.
So you can track its usage better and track the owners better.
The final thing that I want to talk about is about how if people wanna use guns for nonviolent like recreational purposes like hunting or shooting as like a sport, then I think that they should have every right to do so.
I don't think that these are things that inherently harm any person.
Like it may not be to some people's individual taste or some environmentalist tastes if you allow people to go hunting, but as long as you have like reasonable regulations on these things, as long as you have reasonable checks on these things, there's no reason why, if this is the way people enjoy themselves, they should be restricted from doing that.
The fact that, for example, the UK shooting team has to practice in switzerland, it's absolutely ridiculous.
These are just people engaging in their own conception of what is recreational for them and there's no reason why they shouldn't be able to live their life that way.
So for all those reasons we should not increase gun control.