Social media does more harm than good for four reasons.
First because it it harms it harms productivity and encourages laziness in a lot of people.
Second, because it further empowers and enables abuse and cyberbullying of many kinds.
Third, because it's harmful for quality educational discourse, particularly in political context.
And fourth, because it's ultimately unnecessary for all the benefits that it has anyway.
But before we get into that, let's start by talking about the model.
By this obviously we're not talking about banning social media.
We're talking about a world in which we wish it doesn't it just didn't exist.
And further, I also think that when we're talking about social media, we're talking about more broadly public forms of social media, something like twitter or facebook.
But things that I don't think fall into the scope of this are more private forums or even private facebook messages or private groups, things that are more for like a close-knit people that could be helpful for communication.
I don't really think that that's necessarily what is the heart of this motion.
So, let's start by talking about productivity because it's estimated that people waste an incredibly large amount of time on social media.
I certainly know from my own experiences that hours are wasted away just scrolling through facebook, looking at random things, looking and seeing what random people say, things like that.
You could be doing anything else, you could be doing nothing.
That'd probably be more relaxing for you.
Maybe people would be less, you could be sleeping more.
People are oftentimes overtired.
You could be getting work done and not procrastinating until the last minute, all things that you could be doing a whole lot better without social media.
The next one is I think an incredibly important issue because social media has been incredibly incredibly major in further encouraging things like cyberbullying to happen.
When you look at things like like hashtag gamergate or like like or as a tool of like all right and neo nazi abuses or things like that, social media is oftentimes used as a tool to target people.
And while these may not be incredibly widespread necessarily, these isolated cases can be incredibly harmful to the few people that they affect.
The bullying can result in like essentially like doxing of people so like it's available on the internet, all of someone's private information like where they live, what their phone number is, their email addresses, things like that.
So social media is essentially enabling an environment where a whole lot of people may even have to like like leave their homes, they may be worried about or like constant identity theft.
They can be worried about all these kinds of things, and I certainly think that this is an incredibly major harm that we have to be aware of.
But social media is also a big problem because it enables false discourse.
Especially in wake of the recent election of president donald trump.
This happened oftentimes on the heels of fake news or news that is wildly inaccurate.
So you could have a report that would say hillary clinton murdered twenty people because she's evil or something like that and suddenly, because of the way social media algorithms work, it's it's ultimately like a it's a snowball effect in which some people start sharing it and then more people start sharing it, and suddenly it pops to the top of everyone's newsfeed, but there's no real way to confirm the veracity of a lot of these things.
And even if you can, oftentimes the damage is already done cause people already internalized the message.
So this is very bad because what you do is you get stupider people elected, you have less based and grounded discourse.
It's going to be more vitriolic discourse in a lot of context too, which is less conducive to progress, all things that I think are quite bad for actually reaching good solutions in society.
But finally, it's important to note that social media isn't necessary to anyone.
People might think it's necessary but it's not actually necessary.
You can if for communication purposes, email is just as quick and fine.
You can use private messaging, group chats or things like that to get messages across, to post things, to share ideas and communicate with people, websites, it's not like the internet is going to go away.
You can still find things instantly on a more credible website or the like.
You can share pictures if you want to on like other avenues with your friends.
These aren't ultimately necessary things.
But all of the things that I've talked about so far are very urgent things that are unique problems of social media that are quite bad.
So for all those reasons, social media does more harm than good.