We should keep unesco because unesco fills an important role in our world in terms of helping the exchange of ideas and culture and things like that.
So let's start by talking about what exactly this entails.
Whether it's just simply sitting down with other people from different cultures, in terms of like learning more about other cultures, learning about different political systems and things like that, or the facilitation of an exchange of like education, so scholars from different countries go to different places, or unesco can like operate forums for people to exchange ideas and things like that.
Or helping foster global standards of human rights and human treatment and things like that.
I think that there is obviously a lot of good things that unesco does.
But beyond these things that just superficially look good, like obviously the idea of cultural exchange an educational exchange sounds good, but in reality you can have a pretty big consequence.
Because when you think about the reason why there's oftentimes so much turmoil and conflict in the world, a lot of that comes from an otherization that you see of other cultures.
The fact that you look at people in an out group is some kind of threat, or you oftentimes don't understand them.
So you obviously can see this in places like america, you also see it in places you see it in places like america, you have people like donald trump who play off of nativism and racism and and xenophobia as a means of like political gain, but it also like hurts a lot of people and shows a lack of understanding of other cultures.
Oftentimes you see this, you see this in a lot of places as well.
Like a good example is the israeli palestinian conflict, where it's oftentimes very difficult for either side to look at people on the other side as human and a lot of ways, because there has been decades of violence.
You look at like a genocide act like happening right now in myanmar, with like the rohingya who are like an ethnic religious minority and an ethnic and cultural minority, who are being like genocided by the majority population there.
These things happen because of like a deep seeded hatred and a lack of understanding of differences that people have.
And oftentimes a good way to help solve that is just by meeting people of different cultures.
Whether it was for example in like places like america where once you actually need a gay person or meet a trans person you and actually talking about our struggles you find that people can be more empathetic and more understanding.
Because the idea of somebody being gay isn't just an alien.
Or when let's or even more so when a when it was a family member that would come out and that would force people to maybe look at changes in different way, because now you see like a connection to that.
In a lot of ways international disputes can work in similar ways because a lot of it comes from a lack of understanding that people have with one another.
And I think that unesco has an important role by facilitating cultural understanding, by facilitating the exchange of education, of facts, of common standards of decency, I think that it helps build a global consensus about way the way in which people should be treated and it also helps build an understanding about different people's cultures.
So we don't look at different people with through fear, we don't look at them as if they're harboring some kind of nefarious purpose against us.
You're more likely to look at somebody in a better light and see them for the humanity that they have.
So for all those reasons, we should keep unesco.