Immigration to the united states brings more good than harm for two big reasons: first, it brings a lot of good to americans and this, from a self interested perspective, it's good for our economy in that it's good for jobs, it's good for the economy.
And secondarily, it's good because it's the moral thing to do.
It's just the right thing to do as a liberal society, a democratic society in which we just have more, are fortunate enough to have more.
So, let's start by talking about self interest.
And I think this one is pretty clear.
Immigration is incredibly good for the US economy it provides a boost to the amount of people in the workforce, it provides a boost to consumption.
This is why a lot of like economists are oftentimes very concerned with population growth.
Because it's something that's just important to the like healthy maintenance of an economy and this is something that is important to all americans.
It's important to all americans to make sure that the economy stays strong.
Additionally I think that they're also helpful in that in the jobs that they are able to provide.
I think that they're helpful in the fact that they often do jobs that americans don't wanna do and that this means that these jobs, which are still important, are getting done.
And the final, the third and final reason why I think that it's good for americans though is that I think it's good from a cultural perspective.
I think that when you have like a diversity of people that you're encountering on a day to day basis when you're experiencing different cultures whether it's through food or friendships or celebrations, I think that in a lot of ways this leads to a more like enriching understanding of the world and a more enriching life in general, and more enjoyable one too at that.
So now that now going on to the second argument: the argument about how this is simply just the moral thing to do.
So, it's important to understand that immigration is something that is incredibly difficult to do.
It's difficult in that it's oftentimes just financially difficult it's difficult to get the money to do that, to just pack up and go somewhere else, try to get a new life.
It's difficult emotionally, you're oftentimes leaving down what you've been most comfortable with your whole life, you could be leaving behind family members, close friendships, to go somewhere possibly very far away and finally it's also bad just logistically.
It's difficult to make the move, it's difficult to maybe learn a new language, learn a new culture.
It's very difficult to be an immigrant.
So, all of this should be taken into consideration when we want to ask this question.
If it's so hard why do people do it?
And I think the reason people do it is because they feel a need to do that.
Whether it's a security need in some circumstances, people come from countries that are ravaged by war or violence and they fleet to places like united states for safety and security.
There is also the possibility of them fleeting from poverty and trying to get more economic prosperity in somewhere like america.
Whatever their reasons may be, given how hard it is to emigrate, we should recognize that people don't do this just on a whim and that people are trying to come out of oftentimes very bad situations.
And when somebody is trying to come to america, if we're a country that wants to actually just help people, if we're a country that wants to do the right thing, and we should bring allow immigrants to come in.
So for all those reasons very proud to propose this motion.