We should abolish the olympics because the olympics are a waste of money, they are really bad for a lot of developing countries, and, in a lot of ways, they're pretty rigged and unfair anyways so they're not really all that interesting.
So let's start by talking about why they're just a waste of money.
And the big starter here is that they cost of billions of dollars whether it's the cost of hosting it, the cost of building stadiums, the cost of like a lot of logistics, the the cost of all the other kinds of things that pop up when you're talking about like a global event of international importance.
This costs billions of dollars.
And it's basically billions of dollars for a sporting event and I like sports a lot I think that they're fun and I watch the olympics.
But you can't possibly say that these billions of dollars that we spend on the olympics are more important than spending billions of dollars on malaria nets, billions of dollars on people struggling in food and security areas, billions of dollars on making sure that people have access to clean drinking water or shelter or things like that.
We could literally be spending these billions of dollars on almost anything else that's more important of international importance or give it to an international charity.
So that's like a good place to start right off the bat about why this is just a bad way to allocate resources.
But, beyond that, I think this is also really bad for developing countries because developing countries are oftentimes hosting these events so whether is like the brazil olympics or I guess like some extent russia, although not as much, like a lot of developing countries host the olympics and spend a whole lot of money on that.
And that's a big problem because a lot of governments do it for the wrong reasons.
They do it for prestige, they do it for the perception of importance and power and wealth, and they do that at the expense of the actual people on the ground.
So you can see like indigenous areas get like slums getting cleared out and people's homes getting cleared out because they don't look attractive for international populations, billions of dollars of public resources being spent on stadiums that are never going to be used again, like or transportation projects that are largely useless rather than useful transportation projects, so all things that are really bad for a lot of countries and things like that.
But the final thing is that the sports themselves are oftentimes unfair and anti-climactic.
And they're anti-climactic in the way that they have largely predictable results and these largely predictable result come from the fact that you're probably likely going to have success if you have a couple of things: one, if you're just a larger population.
If you have a large population you're probably going to win a lot more things so that kind of makes it like a whole lot that probably makes it more unfair.
Also if you have money to spend on things, if you have money to train athletes, if you have money to spend on resources for athletes to come up with like long development programs, and also the money to essentially allow athletes to spend more time focusing on their athletics then having to worry about like jobs and other kinds of things like that.
So I think that obviously like wealthier countries are at like a big disadvantage and that's like pretty unfair in a lot of ways.
So for all those reasons you should get rid of the olympics.