We should not lower the age of consent given the way that these laws are both enforced and the necessity for these laws in reality.
So, let's start by talking about what we're ultimately not going to defend.
We don't think that the point of these laws is to prosecute two fifteen-year-olds who decide that they want to have sex or two juniors in high school who decide that they want to have sex.
We believe that the point of these laws and the people that they're supposed to target are people who are more predatory in nature, people who have sex with people who who are years upon years younger than them.
And this is why I think that these laws are so very important because first of all, there's a necessary power imbalance and of a coercive nature of relationships where you are still a young minor and you're dating somebody years older than yourself, and secondarily, that there is a very important safety issue at hand because of the way in which sex education works in reality and the access to contraceptives in reality.
So, let's start by talking about the coercive nature of these relationships.
If you're a sixteen-year-old, you're and you're dating somebody who is likely years older than you, there is a big problem with this.
That person likely still has a like could have a full-time job with income.
They could have like more experience in the bedroom or things like that.
There is a whole slew of ways in which you could look at look at your partner, not as an equal as you should in a more healthy relationship, but as more of an idol, as someone that you should look up to or as someone who you want to be more like, and I think that this creates a problem in that the relationship itself cannot cannot be based on like healthy consent given that there is such a prominent age gap.
And I think that the age gap between age sixteen and eighteen is a particularly important one because once you turn eighteen, you are essentially now a legal adult.
You're likely leaving your home, you're going to college, you could you're either going to college or you're getting a full-time job.
All of these things are very different than age sixteen, is a very different important gap of these two years, and I think during this time you gain a whole lot of that emotional maturity that is necessary for this relationship to be healthy.
So, the next reason why this is bad is because of safety concerns.
So, minors oftentimes have much more difficulty accessing, not just being informed about healthy sexual education, but having access to sexual education as well.
And the reason for this is because first and foremost, obviously, a whole lot of places throughout the united states and other parts of the world too don't teach sex education until either later in life, or if they do teach at all, it's oftentimes taught in not very ideal ways.
It's like abstinence-only sex education, but secondarily, there's an additional problem with having sex before the age of consent because there's also problems with being able to purchase health care.
For example, you're oftentimes not able to get access to birth control, you may not be able to get access to other kinds of contraceptives, and you may not be able to get access to other services as well that are necessary as a result of you having sex.
So this is very important because this means that you're most more likely, as a younger person having sex, to suffer some of the unwanted consequences of sex, like a possibility of a pregnancy or an STD or anything like that.
And obviously those things aren't good so we should discourage people discourage people from putting them in a position where this is likely, and the law is a very good tool to deter people from having sex so this isn't going to be a problem in the first place.
So for all of those reasons, we should keep the age of consent where it is.