We shouldn't abolish personality tests.
They're like fine.
They're at the end of the day reasonably there a reasonable supplement to decisions that are already being made.
They're usually not the fundamental basis of a decision being made and there's no real or legit harm to them.
They can even be a little bit helpful sometimes.
So let's break this down.
I want to start by talking about the context in which these personality tests are often actually used because I think that here's where there's a great deal of mis characterization by the gov side.
So where are personality tests actually useful?
They're useful as a supplement to things that are already done.
So people are still going to like request interviews with people, people are still going to request references with people, or things like that.
So this has a couple of fundamental corrections, first of all it does make sure that you can't like lie on a test, or you can't lie to tell people what you want to know because there's alternative mechanisms by which to check these kinds of things, but secondarily I don't see how this is in any way stronger or unique argumentation for them because you can try to tell your employer what they want to hear in an interview, or in a cover letter or any other numerous ways in which you apply for a job.
So there's nothing really unique about personality tests.
What I think it does do reasonably well though is it detects the kind of person that you're trying to hire for possibly a specific kind of job, so like if you're hiring an introvert for a job that has to do with computer tech and computer support, things like that maybe that's fine.
Maybe it's not so fine to hire that person if they're doing it for social working or something that requires constant communication with people.
That's just like the clear base set of circumstances where it could plausibly be useful to use one.
So that's fine.
But I think that the important thing to note is that there's no real harm as opposed to this.
Like when you try to claim that it's difficult to take the test for certain people from certain groups or things like that or based on like crude language I think that there's a lack of nuanced understanding about how these tests actually work.
What they basically do is they present you with like a series of questions, sometimes like value based questions or like judgment based questions, it's not like an intelligence test in a lot of ways or something that you can even study for, it's basically just a test about the way in which you live your life and the way in which you live your life could be more suitable for some jobs or another.
There's obviously some jobs like me as a rather vocal person, a person who's like unwilling to unafraid to express opinions or try to make myself heard probably isn't very good in like say a military role where you have to listen to people even if you disagree with them and it's not really good to question authority.
Different kinds of people have different kinds of skills and this could even be helpful in making people realize their own skills.
I don't actually think there's any real degree of harm there.
I don't think that people whether it's individuals or employers put enough weight into a personality test that it actually becomes the all or nothing factor.
Actually is the most pressing decision that is being made for whether or not somebody's going to get the job and I think that there's a clear self interested reason for that, and that's that employers want to make sure that they're hiring the right people for jobs, that are hiring qualified people.
It doesn't serve employers any good to hire people whimsically or on the basis of only one piece of data alone.
That's why people like to request multiple things.
You want to look at the totality of things.
So this is a very clear burden for the gov bench.
They have to actually show you that personality tests are on face awful.
That not that they like if they were only being used on their own could have potential problems.
That's not what this is about.
This is a debate about whether or not personality tests even have a place as a part of a greater spectrum of things when you're making an evaluation.
I think they very clearly do.
So for those reasons we shouldn't abolish personality tests.