We should not subsidize journalism because subsidizing journalism with public funds is an excellent way to essentially eliminate journalistic independence in the way in which it's going to cover the.
So I want to start by talking about what the status quo for journalism looks like because there's clearly problems in the way journalism is getting funded in modern societies where like journal or new subscriptions are going down.
However, despite these problems, I don't think that the solution to these is trying to rely on the public for funding because I think that this creates a huge incentive for governments to essentially leverage their funding of journalism in order to get favorable coverage.
When you look at what's happening right now you already see that a lot of newspapers are owned by corporations and the result of that is usually less critical coverage of the people who are essentially their bosses.
So you look at like the washington post is probably not going to publish any critical articles about jeff bezos or amazon anytime soon.
Similarly, you don't really see the wall street journal criticizing rupert murdoch or people like that despite the evil that they bring on to societies.
So I think that this is only going to get worse when now it's the government getting involved.
Obviously we already have donald trump as a president who thinks that most media is like fake news and should just be openly condemned.
So I see like a real problem where the government is subsidizing journalism and now you have people in the government who may not necessarily want journalists to cover certain things because they don't think it's important news and they may say they're willing to like take political actions like cut off funding, restrict funding, put like restrictions on funding if they try to cover certain types of stories or if they say certain things.
All of these could be ways in which journalistic integrity could be compromised by government actions.
And I think that that could therefore create a real problem.
Cause at the end of the day journalists aren't going to be able to just simply fight off the fact that they like won't get funding if they don't do what the government says and even if they want to like stay true to themselves that's like a pretty big burden to overcome.
But besides the fact that I think that governments even in the best of times are still going to want to restrict content to make sure that there's more favorable coverage, and in this in the same way in which they try to restrict like like the white house newsroom puts out a certain narrative, they're going to want to put out similar narratives when they're the ones funding it.
I also think that politics and funding as a like political funding is inherently unstable and therefore bad for journalists to be reliant on.
Cause I think that some kind of funding is more stable, like defense funding is more stable, but other kinds of funding, like school funding , is, for example, one of the first things that gets put on the chopping block whenever there's government shortfall or whenever some republican gets into office and he and wants to like cut spending.
This is one of the first things that gets cut and I think that it'll oftentimes be politically popular to cut the amount of funding that is being seen as getting funneled into like a so called liberal media or like critical journalism and I think that oftentimes it's difficult for the populace to really truly understand the importance of journalism and I think that that creates a political problem of preserving its funding despite the fact that it's now going to fully reliant on that in order to get a whole lot of its funding.
So I think for all those reasons we should not subsidize investigative journalism.