We should legalize sex selection because first and foremost, it's something that already happens anyway so you might as well allow people to do it in a more technologically advanced and safer way and secondarily, because it's a matter of choice and it's a choice that people have the right to make.
So first let's talk let's start by talking about why the banning of sex selection is kind of unenforceable and it's unenforceable because you're able to usually determine the gender of a baby before the period where you can legally have an abortion ends.
So in a world in which all of the worst arguments on the other side are true, where people like don't want to have a baby of a particular sex for a malicious reason, maybe because they think that like women are inferior or because you live in a patriarchal society where only men can like own property or like do certain kinds of work or things like that.
Even if all those worst things are true it's already something that happens in the status quo and it's already something that people can do because in most places, in a lot of places at least, abortion is legal, abortion is effective, and it's successful.
So if people want to so people can just get an abortion.
So I think that using technology to essentially decide like what gender your baby would be essentially like manipulating like using like technological methods to manipulate like the like gender of like the embryo and things like that or things all those kinds of like technology are just like the next step in ways in which people can achieve like their choices in life, which I think is fine, because I think that we should give people the benefit of the doubt that by and large especially in places where there's more advanced technology is going to be available in a lot of western countries, I think that by and large we should give people the benefit of the doubt that people may just want to have a baby of a particular gender for a rather benign reason like maybe someone doesn't want to have three boys, maybe they want to have like one girl just to see what it's like.
Maybe someone has just grown up always wanting to have like a boy.
Maybe people have like a personal reasons to do to like have different kinds of genders of babies because that's what they want to do.
That's perfectly fine no matter what your reason is because the way in which like having a dependent, having a child, is like a rather important thing in your life and you should be able to have like control over how it happens because it is such a big and your life.
So for all of those reasons, we should legalize sex selection.