We should abolish the right to remain silent because it doesn't actually need to exist as a right in order to protect the dignity of people and the safety of people.
So let's start with a little bit of background here, because I think that help ground discussion that we're having here.
Things like miranda warning came about in miranda v.
Arizona during the civil rights era, because police officers were essentially compelling testimony, and they were doing so in ways like whether it was by beatings or intimidation or deprivation of sleep or other kinds of things like that, so that people were compelled to testify.
So that's why the right to create to remain silent was instituted in its more or less current form.
But I think that this is distinct from the right to like self incrimination in a lot of ways.
So I think that the first and foremost thing to note is that we compel testimony all the time.
Whether it's in the form of a subpoena, so like for example right now bob muller, in the investigation of light trump in russia, is subpoenaing people left and right and is able to compel all kinds of testimony.
And in fact, if you lie or you give an incomplete answer, it's perjury and that's an additional crime.
So the first thing to note is that we compel testimony in a lot of other kinds of scenarios and it works out just fine.
But the next thing that's worth pointing out is that most rights are not blanket rights in the way that self incrimination is.
In fact, self incrimination isn't even a blanket right itself.
So if you want to search so if you want to search somebody's house, for example, oftentimes you need a search warrant to do that.
But you don't always need a search warrant, and that doesn't necessarily mean that you can't use evidence that you find if you don't get a search warrant.
So for example if you think that the evidence may get destroyed, if it's an active pursuit by the police, if there's a threat to like some kind of person, there's all kinds of exceptions to that kind of rule.
Similarly we also exceptions to the right to self incrimination.
In american law for example, things like excited utterances or like statements made by this like , like excited utterances by people, statements that could be made by maybe a deceased person so they can't testify on their own, like there's all kinds of other kinds of things that you can use.
But additionally I also think that it's not necessary to have a blanket ban in against against incriminating testimony in order to make sure that you can protect people's rights.
You can just regulate the ability of of how police conduct investigations.
So make sure that police aren't like torturing people, make sure police aren't beating people, make sure that there's no compelled testimony.
Because it's true.
Compelled testimony can be invalid testimony.
And the reason why we have the right to remain silent is because we don't want to compel like inaccurate or incorrect testimony.
But we definitely want to be striving for as much information as possible if we want to have the court system be as accurate as fair as possible.
So there really isn't any reason why we need to have this kind of a blanket ban in place.
I think that we would have a better court system with more accurate information if we got rid of the right to remain silent, and we just made sure that that other kinds of things were being other rights were being respected.
So for all those reasons, we should get rid of the right to remain silent.