We should abandon the insanity plea.
First, because it's ultimately rather unnecessary in contemporary legal systems and secondarily, because the insanity plea is inherently speculative.
So first why is the insanity plea quite unnecessary?
In the status quo if somebody has a mental illness in order to actually convict them of a crime there's generally two criteria that have to be meet.
First, that person with a mental illness has to be seen as competent for trial and then second, that person with a mental illness you have to like prove that they weren't insane the time the crime.
So I want to talk about the first element of that because I think that the purpose of the insanity plea is by and large to ensure that people with mental disabilities are not held like to the same degree of of culpability for the crimes that they commit because they have minimal control over their actions as a result of their illness.
But it's important to note that this is oftentimes interwoven with competency in general.
So if you're unfit to stand trial then you're ultimately going to see a rather similar result to a successful insanity plea.
If someone is unfit for trial, they're probably going to be in some kind of institution forced commitment to an institution designed for mental health and the way in which the fitness for trial criteria is met is basically is this person mentally secure enough that they can understand the charges that are being given against them.
Are they able to adequately participate in their own defense things like and if they're not able to do so, if they don't have the mental capacity to do so, then they're already not fit for trial and you're already going to have other alternate measures take place that is both going to ensure that they can get the treatment that they need and insure that they're not going to be a danger to society but at the same time it also means that the trial part of itself is unnecessary and that's important because in a lot of ways, it's a similar correction but it saves the like but it saves the necessity of putting someone with a mental illness through the entire trial process and it also saves the state a lot of money too because prosecutions can be quite quite expensive especially on cases with mental health where you have to call in a whole lot of professional health experts.
So you do save a lot of money on these things and I think that's something that's very important.
A thing to keep in mind is that if somebody is competent to stand trial then you become then you have a problem because if somebody is competent to stand trial then maybe their mental illness is something that is minor enough or treatable enough that you should put the expectation on them to obey the law because while obviously some people have like different degrees of mental stability, it's important to note that there's always a duty to obey the law and a duty to ensure compliance with the law and that just because it may be more difficult for some people than other people because of mental illness, does not mean that you necessarily get a pass for the law.
So I think that only in the more extreme circumstances should you actually do this, but the next thing that I want to talk about is about the inherently speculative nature of this because when we're talking about the insanity plea by and large most most jurisdictions at least in america, but around the world, because this rule originated in like europe so most commonwealth areas are going to use this rule is whether you are able to recognize the distinction between what was right and wrong more leads like the m'naghten rule.
Can you tell the difference between right and wrong?
If you can't tell the difference between right and wrong then you're seen as mentally unfit and therefore you have a successful insanity plea.
But the problem with this is that if you have a chronic mental illness then you're probably already fit but if you're trying to make an argument about something like say maybe temporary insanity or lower level insanity, these are things are oftentimes very difficult to prove because it's rather difficult to obtain evidence of a singular point of what's going on in someone's head in a singular point in time because you can't look into somebody's head.
So it's difficult to actually get evidence on these things so it becomes highly speculative and a very problematic way to actually enact justice.
So for all of those reasons we should abandon the insanity plea.