Embryonic stem cell research brings more good than harm, for two big reasons: first, because the good that it brings is quite massive, and far outweighs in importance any possible harms, and secondarily, even if the good is only of marginal importance, the harms, both practical and ethical, I believe are rather minimal, and therefore it's still bringing more good than harm.
So, let's talk about the first one of those things, about why embryonic stem cell research does bring so much good.
There's a few obvious important things that stem cell research does.
I believe there's two big groups of this: first, it as it, can help you come up with more advanced medical technologies, to prevent people from dying, and second of those things is that, it can make maybe existing medicines, or existing technologies cheaper and more accessible to more people.
So, why are these things very important?
So, on the first one of those things, there's a whole lot of things that, even in even in current times, with modern medicine, we don't have cures for.
A lot of things like nerve damage, things like , things to like the central nervous system, brain damage, or if certain organs become compromised, it becomes very difficult to come up with ways in which you can actually replace these organs or cure these kinds of ailments, but stem cell research gives us unique opportunity to combat these problems, by being able to program on certain kinds of, like new cells almost, like unprogrammed cells.
You can direct them into new things, so like, you can almost you can create new kinds of nerve cells, you can create parts of like new organs, things like that.
You can do all kinds of cool things with stem cells that, make it so that you can cure a lot of problems that we currently have, and that's great.
But, the second thing is as far as cheapness and access, because even if a lot of these things exist in the status quo, stem cells give us superior alternatives.
So, for example, if you need to like get a kidney transplant, or something like that, right now you have to wait for like a donor match , and all these things can take a long time, or it cost a lot of money to do so.
If you want to or like a blood donation, things like that.
These things are oftentimes up to chance, or your social status.
But, with stem cells, a lot of these barriers are more likely to come down, because rather than having to wait for a perfect match, or something like that, you can have doctors that are going to be able to create the match for you, by using your by using like your own DNA essentially, and things like that, and then they can redirect the stem cells as replacements and things like that.
So, that can definitely cut down waiting times, and cut down cost, which definitely is going to save people's lives.
So, that's those are the reasons why stem cell does a whole lot of good for people.
Basically, it just saves lives in new and more innovative ways, and at cheaper costs, things that are undeniably good.
But I also think that, there's no real harm from stem cells, on either an ethical or practical level.
So, first on the practical level, there hasn't really been any substantial research that shows that there are any actual real side effects, or problems with stem cells, namely because, the goal is that they're just going to operate like any other cell in your body.
And, while there could be some limited problems associated with, the science actually looks quite optimistic on the efficacy of stem cell like treatments on the problems.
Now, as far as the ethical implications are concerned, there is a big misconception here, and it's that you're just like aborting fetuses, and things like that, specifically for stem cell research.
Oftentimes, these are already aborted fetuses, which is something that people have a right to do, legally you can get an abortion.
So basically, it's just a matter of are these things going to go to waste, or should you have the option to conduct medical research on them.
In a lot of ways, this is the same way as like, allowing people to volunteer as organ donors, or allowing people to volunteer upon death, upon their death, of like donating body parts to science, and things like that.
These are perfectly simple things that we let people do, because they serve a public good, and because they're really not all that infringing on people's rights, or liberties in any capacity.
So, for all of those reasons, very proud to propose this motion.