We should abolish the two party system because the two party system is not incredibly complex in the views that it allows people to represent compared to the complex and diverse views that people often have in a political culture, and additionally the two party system makes it more likely that you're going to see polarization and hate and lack of progress in policy making as opposed to coalition building and progress and cooperation.
So let's start by talking about why a two party system is incredibly bad for just a basic representation of people in government.
And the biggest reason for this is because there's more than two perspectives on issues.
And besides there just being more than two perspectives on any given issue, there aren't just two kinds of people: people who believe one set of issues uniformly on one thing and people who believe in a uniform set of principles on the other side of an issue.
In reality of these things are much more complex.
People believe in issues to varying degrees, people rank issues in varying degrees of importance, people have different opinions on issues.
There's a whole slew of ways in which people are just complex.
And the two party system kind of just simplifies this in the worst way possible by grouping people into two parties: you're either on one side of the political spectrum or the other.
And it doesn't really give you room for actual political complexity.
And that's a big problem because people, for the most part, want want a government that is more directly representative of them.
And what this means is that there's less of an opportunity for people who have views that don't necessarily align completely with the one of the two main parties.
Those views are much more likely to be silenced.
Because there's not going to be a like there's not really a platform for them to speak up on, because there's only two parties and whatever those to party lines are, that's where the bulk of the discourse, the bulk of the conversation, the bulk of the policy making will revolve around.
So that's a really bad thing for representation of diverse view points.
But I also think that the two party system is really bad for cooperation and coalition building, and the biggest reason for that is because it's oftentimes an explicit like requirement or necessity of governance that a multi-party state is going to have to rely on other parties to build a governing coalition.
And the reason for that is because if you have multiple parties you're usually not able to get a majority of seats in a parliament or a congress.
And since they're not able to get a majority of seats in the parliament or congress, you need to rely on similar minded, but not necessarily the exact same parties, in order to build a coalition to govern.
This means you necessarily have to reach out to people with somewhat divergent views.
This means that you're necessarily going to have an engagement between diverse issues to come towards common ground rather than simply having like an a government and an opposition and they're all uniform blocks.
You have more complexion, you have more like coalition building for different groups, you have more actual opportunities to have debate over what's in the best interests of different groups in the in society, rather than just blanket support or opposition for a group.
And I think that that means that things are more likely to actually happen.
You're more likely to see progress, you're more likely to seek consensuses and things like that and all those things are actually really good for effective governance.
So for all those reasons, abolish the two party system.