We should not ban organic food quite simply because people should have the freedom to choose what kind of food they want to eat in accordance with their preferences, especially if this doesn't actually cause any reasonable harm or any kind of provable harm, which there isn't attached to organic food.
So let's break this down.
I think that there is a quite obvious and enshrined freedom in any kind of liberal and rights oriented society to pick the kind of food that you want to eat.
You have the freedom to decide if you want to go to an italian restaurant or a mexican restaurant.
You have the freedom to decide if you want a lemonade or a coca cola.
You have the freedom to pick what kinds of foods you want to eat because people have different kinds of preferences and it's a really basic way that people satisfy their preferences.
There's no real reason to regulate that all that much.
So why does this apply?
Why does this basic principle apply to organic organic food?
There's three reasons why I think that this is true.
First and foremost, people can have a very reasonable preference for organic food because they see it as more humane.
The association with factory farming because oftentimes organic food, even if it's not necessarily done in like the most humane way possible, although oftentimes there is a correlation between organic eggs and free range eggs and things like that, there tends to be a correlation between the two.
People may not be willing to be like fully vegetarian or things like that, people may still like to enjoy meat and dairy and things like that.
But that doesn't mean that they appreciate factory farming, nor does it mean that they support the torturing of animals or things like that.
So people may on basic moral grounds want to have organic food and this is certainly something that people should have the right to.
People should have the right to opt into a moral framework that they wish to participate in.
Secondarily, people should have the right to eat organic food because people may just like the taste of organic food better.
When my opponent talks about how factory farming can be more efficient and about how you can use the space more effectively, grow bigger food, blah blah blah.
Maybe I don't want a tomato the size of my head and I prefer a tomato the size of my fist because oftentimes the nutrients that get pumped into it or the the way in which it's manufactured in order to have the food reach that size, a certain kind of taste gets lost.
A certain kind of quality can get lost, and this is something that's very subjective.
It's oftentimes difficult to quantify.
But if people think that what the food they are eating taste better, people think that they're experiencing a greater enjoyment out of their food, then this is certainly something that people should have the right to consume.
There's no reason to take it away from them people can choose to pay more money for that if they want to, who really cares?
The third and final reason is health-related reasons.
So, this is also something that's very clear.
You can try to make arguments that without like the more uniform safety standards and things like that, organic foods aren't actually all that safe blah blah blah blah blah, but this isn't any this is at very least a wash in comparable to the fact that if you get a singular outbreak of like salmonella at one of the three tyson chicken factories, you're more likely to see a much broader scope of damage so that probably cancels out, but there's also the additional health harms when you're pumping pesticides into something.
Maybe people don't want to have to worry about the fact that a lot of these pesticides or things can be possibly carcinogenic, that they could lead to other kinds of health problems, that they can lead to you being more likely to get diabetes or other kinds of diseases.
These are all reasonable concerns that people may have and people certainly should have the right to make those decisions.
And this is especially true because there's no real documentable harm of organic food.
It's just more expensive, it's not any less safe compared to other kinds of food.
So for all those reasons, we should not ban organic food.
We should let people pick the food they want to eat and eat what they want.