We should end the patriot act because the patriot act is incredibly rights violative and it's also it doesn't actually help any kind of real security.
It's fake security.
So, let's start by laying out the obvious ways in which the patriot act is rights violative.
When you're talking about the like massive wiretapping, like widespread wire tap into phones, the widespread data accumulation of people's like data, snoop government snooping into all various kinds of walks of like private parts of people's lives.
Obviously that's incredibly rights violative.
The government is basically able to learn every single thing about you.
It can learn about very personal things about you too.
There's a reason why we have a right to privacy.
Because one of the most basic things that people value is their ability to be left alone.
Their ability not to be harassed, their ability to keep information and things that are important to them private to them in a way in which they choose.
Obviously these things are violated when the government can indiscriminately wiretap on you.
Things like that.
But beyond the indiscriminate and systematic nature of that, there's also no real cause for doing this.
When you're talking about the vast majority of people, most people are doing anything wrong.
Their the information that's being gathered is being gathered rather baselessly.
And even beyond the like fact that there's no real cause for doing this, there is also obviously no legal mechanisms that are in place.
So obviously the right to privacy is an absolute.
We have things like search warrants that you can use to wiretap somebody or search somebody's house.
However these require , this makes sure that you can't abuse on these kind of practices.
So in the same way in which like you don't want the government to just like walk into your house and go through all of your stuff without some kind of real reason for doing so, to make sure that there's real legal mechanisms in place, you don't want them going to your phone.
In a lot of ways, I probably have like a lot of people in the modern digital age, probably have more important personal things on their phone then they do just sitting around in paper documents in their house.
So it's a real violation when you're doing this.
And you want to make sure that you at least have some semblance of legal checks and place.
But the patriot act just completely flouts this by making it so that the government can just basically do whatever it wants with no real legal checks that actually exist, and certainly no real public accountability that's in place.
So even if people would be okay with this, there's not a real public discussion on this.
Because most of this stuff is happening behind closed doors.
So obviously there's no real checks and now that's a big problem.
So now let's talk about the trade off.
All of these rights violations, do they even come with any kind of good in terms of security?
I think that the answer is probably no.
And the reason for this is a couple of things: so first and foremost most threats against the united states probably come from a foreign a lot of them come from foreign entities.
So whether it's like foreign terrorists or foreign actors that are doing harm, foreign hackers, foreign nationals, like all, most threats against america don't originate in america.
Certainly with concerns of things like national security issues.
Obviously there's problems in america, but when we're talking about national security, we're by and large talking about exterior threats.
So already most of the people that you're going through their phones or taking data for, most of these people are just law-abiding american citizens.
So you're not actually doing a whole lot.
This isn't really giving you much.
But further, I also think that this is very unlikely to be successful.
It's basically a fishing expedition.
When you try to go through, like when you you have a country of three hundred million people and you can hope that by searching through like a few million on those phones or whatever, you're probably not actually going to find a whole lot.
People, especially if they're like a terrorist, so they're actually doing harm, they're probably not just flirting out their plans on a phone that they are worried about being wiretapped.
Like even drug kingpins aren't stupid enough to do this.
I'm sure an international terrorist organization isn't going to be doing those kinds of things.
People oftentimes communicate via like a various secure things, people communicate with encryptions, all kinds of things in which the patriot act isn't like actually going to help you with.
You're probably going to need like a more intense surveillance, more intense targeted surveillance, if you actually want to do anything meaningful.
So for all those reasons, we should just end the patriot act.