We should subsidize renewable energy and we should subsidize renewable energy because renewable energy is just an incredibly good thing for many reasons.
And subsidies are a good way to effectively get more of that good thing.
So first why is renewable energy a good thing?
The biggest reason is climate change.
We live in a world in which climate change is going to have incredibly horrible impacts if we don't rapidly decrease the amount of CO two and other other greenhouse gas emissions that we put into the atmosphere.
And one of the biggest ways in which we emit greenhouse gases is with non renewable energies.
So whether it's the oil from our car or the coal that we burned for electricity or basic refrigeration and cooling and things like that that require that require like electricity and things like that to run.
All of these things require a large amount of non renewable energy which gets funneled into the atmosphere and all of that can be corrected with green energy.
And that's huge because without more of the impacts of climate change you're talking about multibillion dollar costs of like essentially things like flooding and natural disasters obviously crop failures and things like that are obviously problems as well there's a whole lot of problems that are going to come with climate change both economic costs and real human cost that can be avoided with these kinds of things.
But secondarily even if that's not true they're still going to be a need for this there's going to be a need for renewable energy because there's going to be an increase in scarcity of non renewable resources and the biggest reason for that is just because we've been reliant on nonrenewable energy for so long consuming it at such fast rates that it can't possibly keep up with the that the the rate at which it rebuilds over like tens of thousands of years isn't able to keep up with the rate at which we're consuming it so eventually it's all going to be gone.
And that's going to be a big deal and that we're going to need to do something about that and plan in advance.
But finally I think it's going to be better for pricing and the economy in the long run and that's true because the scarcity obviously of non renewable energies is going to lead to a rise in it.
This is something that we've already seen like oil is so much more expensive than it used to be because oil is not is like as widely abundant as it used to be.
We're not there's more of a stricter supply of oil.
So we're already seeing this kind of basic economic principle happen.
And I think this is only going to get worse because because the things that I've talked about.
So then when you compare that to greenhouse gases you're talking about things that can be done incredibly cheaply and efficiently in the long run whether it's just putting up a panel and taking in sunlight not having to worry about a whole lot of various costs that are related to nonrenewable energy production in the long run green technologies and renewable energies are going to be a whole lot cheaper.
So I think that subsidies are an incredibly good way to get more of this good thing.
They're a good way to get more of this good thing because there subsidies are going to directly increase investment in it whether you're a researcher or developer getting an investment or you're a consumer that's getting some kind of subsidies for doing some kind of consumers related subsidy.
This is obviously going to increase the prevalence of renewable energy which is great.
But also this is going to lead to a signaling effect and a snowball effect because the more people that are encouraged to use renewable energies the more widely normalize it's going to be and also there's going to be greater economies of scale because when things like production plants for cars are now focusing on electric cars instead of oil based cars and it becomes cheaper to produce what it becomes cheaper to produce the renewable alternatives.
And that basic economic principle can be expanded over a whole lot of other things.
So for all those reasons definitely subsidize renewable energy.