We should absolutely prohibit corporal punishment, also more colloquially known as child abuse, and I think that the reason for that is two reasons for that are rather clear.
First, because it doesn't actually work, and second, because it's incredibly cruel and incredibly heartless thing to do, and as a moral society we should ban it.
So let's start by talking about why corporal punishment is grossly ineffective and doesn't actually work.
So, obviously like there is two general groups.
Like corporal punishment could be used as like discipline for like prisoners or things like that, or it can be used for like children as a form of discipline.
I think in either instance it's grossly ineffective.
As far as like prisoners are concerned and things like that, I think a lot of the same arguments with torture apply, in that people are more likely to be rebellious or resentful and things like that, so you're more likely to, if you like physically abuse prisoners, you're more likely going to see prisoners either be violent themselves, because the violence becomes more normalized within the cell walls because prison guards are doing it, or it's also going to become much more of a resentment, that you're going to see much more of a desire to do harm to other people, much more of a desire to do harm, because revenge and hate, especially when somebody physically abuses you, are rather powerful and rather difficult to get rid of.
I think that as far as it applies to kids, it's even more ineffective, and the reason for this is like pretty straightforward.
Most societies don't let you go too far with corporal punishment as is, if you're truly like truly injuring your kid, that's just child abuse, you could be put in prison for that.
So there's already a line that's being drawn, and it's already difficult to like meeting the try to like use corporal punishment as a tool.
But I also think that all it does is it makes kids better at lying, because if for example you spank a kid because they like talk back to you, or you spank a kid because they don't do their homework or whatever it is that they do, all they're probably going to do the next time is they're going to become more resentful, they're not going to trust you, they're not going to be open and honest with you as a parent, they're going to look at you more as an authority figure rather than somebody that they can confide to, rather than somebody that they can open up to, because, you know, you probably don't talk about your feelings or your life or things like that with people who physically attack you.
So you're probably not actually going to create a very healthy relationship between between parents and children either, and there's no real reason for that to exist.
So, why is it cruel and unusual, why is it grossly why is it just like a gross thing that we should not allow at all.
And I think that like I already said, most societies already don't allow child abuse and things like that, and if they don't they certainly should, and the reason for that is because kids are incredibly vulnerable.
Kids don't have the means of like supporting themselves and defending themselves, but kids are still people.
Kids bleed like everyone else, their bones break, and they feel pain like everybody else.
And the idea that like kids belong to their parents, or prisoners just belong to the state, and that you can do whatever you want with them and just physically abuse them, make them suffer, is just absolutely heinous, it's primitive in the sense that you try to cause physical pain to others to make them do what you want them to do, as if you have some kind of ownership over their body to the point where you can just where where you can just make them suffer for your own betterment.
I think that that's completely degrading to their own agency, to their own human lives and the own value that they have.
And that's why I think that like the physical abuse, the physical nature of corporal punishment, makes it grossly unacceptable in a modern society, and why we obviously need to ban it.
So for all of those reasons, very proud to propose.