We should not subsidize agriculture because first it's bad for the economy to do so, it's a relic of an old economy to do so, and secondarily because it's essentially just corporate welfare and it's certainly not something that we should be spending our tax dollars on.
So, let's start by talking about why subsidizing agriculture is bad for the economy.
I think that it's bad for the economy because it creates market inefficiencies in the way in which it doesn't allow the free market to try to resolve these problems.
So when you're subsidizing some agriculture when you're subsidizing farmers, you're not allowing for the most successful farmers, the ones who are able to produce the best crops, the ones ur who are able to do so in the best way, it curtails the ability of consumers - of the people who eat the food which is all of us - from actually getting the best prices on food and from getting the best quality of food because you're getting a skewed market respect perspective of what the actual farmers are.
But I additionally also think that the reason why, the underlying reason why agricultural aids subsidizing agriculture exists in the first place, is just a relic of older times.
It's a relic of like new deal era policies where it was much more necessary to subsidize farmers because you were worried about the livelihood of millions of small time farm owners but I don't think that this is the way in which it actually works anymore.
I think that the way in which farming works nowadays is primarily large corporate farms.
Like kellogg produces like half of all of our food or tyson produces half of all of our meat or things like that.
Like, there is huge monopolies of farms or and this is important because this means that when you're subsidizing agriculture you're not subsidizing individual farmers who have to worry about like a wave of cold killing all of their crops and resulting in a famine for them for like years and things like that.
It's much different than that now.
It's about it's much different.
It's now a corporatized farm system.
So the subsidies are just going to line the pockets of big CEO's or executives, people who don't actually need this money.
This money isn't actually going towards people who are on the ground involved in farming.
This is where things like like tax exemptions or like refunds are actually going to.
So that's important because obviously first and foremost I just think that that's garbage.
It's garbage that these are the people who are ultimately getting more and more money when they clearly don't actually need that money.
But secondarily I also just think that this is very bad in the opportunity cause to presents for how we could be spending our money.
If we weren't spending money, if we were cutting taxes in this way, we can be cutting taxes for like like for average americans, we could be or spending more money on things like infrastructure, education, healthcare.
There's all kinds of things that a state can find to do with money and there is many reasons that are better than giving it wealthy people who already have money.
So for all of those reasons I proudly believe we should not subsidize agriculture.