We should not raise the retirement age, because it isn't actually going to solve the problems of it's not going to really solve the major economic and structural problems with a lot of social safety nets that are designed to help elderly people, and because it's also very unfair to people who are near or at retirement age, and elderly people in general.
And there are several reasons for this.
So, let's start by talking about why I don't actually think that raising the retirement age is going to do all that much to help programs like social security or medicare, or programs like that.
And there are several reasons for this.
So, first and foremost, I think that most people will choose to keep working if they're able to do so, and the reason for this is obvious.
First, a lot of elderly people just because you're old doesn't mean you don't want to like do things with your life, and I think that a lot of people, like not everyone, but a lot of people enjoy their work, a lot of people get some kind of value out of their work, they think that it gives them kind of some kind of purpose, and people aren't necessarily so quick to give that up just because they get old.
You can still, even if you're old, keep progressing your career, changing careers, things like that.
But I also think that it's important that people are going to see that if you keep working your job, there's always going to be greater financial security, you're going to make more money working than of off your retirement account, that's for sure.
So, especially if you're worried about living for a rather long time, you're probably going to keep working past the retirement age anyway by choice.
I also think that a lot of a lot of social safety programs, like social security, are very very broken in that there is a a huge lack of funding.
So, merely making the aids like five years higher or ten years higher, isn't actually going to do that all all that much compared to say, maybe, ending the like the income the income cap on like your contributions to social security, things like that can probably be more effective.
But now let's talk about why I think that this is incredibly unfair to elderly workers.
So, keep in mind that just because there may be outside factors, like people are living for a longer amount of time than when these programs were enacted, or there is economic insecurity surrounding a lot of like elderly age programs and things like that, that doesn't actually mean that the underlying factors that make retirement necessary in the first place have changed, because there's a whole lot of people, especially people who work more physically demanding job, people who are laborers, people who worked in industries or factories, these people probably can't keep doing those jobs throughout their entire life, and after a while bodies can start to wear down, you're less able to do physical tasks, a lot of mental tasks don't come as quickly and easy to you anymore.
And this is why retirement is necessary in the first place, because you've served your time for society, you've served a very like you've served a good economic good, but now it's time for society to give back to the people who gave to it by contributing and working throughout their entire lives.
And a lot of people simply aren't capable of working to age seventy or past that, and it's very important therefore to make sure that very valuable things, like social security or medicare, are available to them and they're not just left unemployed with nothing, because they get fired for not being able to do their job as well anymore, but they're still not old enough to qualify for benefits and things like that.
I think that that should be a scary reality for a lot of countries, and for those reasons we should not raise the retirement age.