We should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
So for starters I wanna talk by just explaining the basis in a lot of ways for giving minors different treatment than adults.
Because obviously this is a pretty common practice.
Minors regularly experience different and varying rights from full adults.
Full adults have the right to vote, they pay taxes, minors have a different criminal justice system, they have more restrictions on the way they can work in like labor laws, they have restrictions on like objects that they can consume like tobacco and marijuana.
So I think in a lot of ways it's the basis for this is because we recognize that minors are still emotionally and physically developing as people.
So a lot of things that affect them can affect them and more extreme ways and for longer periods of time and moreover, the basis of which people are making decisions on can fundamentally be less rational and less reasonable because people are just less mature.
And that's important because I think that one of the biggest reasons the government is justified in making restrictions on its people is because people may just not be in a position to make the a really like a truly reasonable decision.
So now that that's been established, let's talk about what are the actual like ground specifically in which you could ban, you should ban piercings and tattoos.
And I think a lot of ways it's similar to why you don't want to why you do ban alcohol for drinking things like alcohol.
Because it's important point out that like tattoos and piercings can sometimes be harmful in a lot of ways.
You can get infections from these kinds of things, the procedures are oftentimes incredibly painful to undergo, so there's like definitely problems associated with.
In a lot of ways it can at times be more extreme than alcohol.
Like obviously alcohol carries more of a risk, you're probably not going to die from getting a tattoo, although depending on what the infection is maybe you could, but in the same way a lot of things like are less extreme.
Like tobacco on each individual instance is probably like less painful and less destructive than getting like a piercing or a tattoo maybe.
It's only in like the totality of like many times of using tobacco or many times of drinking alcohol that it becomes more harmful.
So I think that we should like ignore any kind of like argumentation to the contrary that piercings and tattoos can have some kind of adverse impact on kids.
So given that, what are the reasons why this could be like amplified even further?
And I think that the fact that a lot of the things are permanent, maybe not so much the pain that you get at the time of the piercing or the tattoo or maybe not even the infection, but the way in which your body is fundamentally changed forever, your body is going to look different for ever, is is like a very permanent aspect.
So it's a choice that people are making that isn't an easily reversible one.
So that's like more grounds for legitimacy for regulating it.
But moreover I also think that an outright ban is a good way to make sure that parents or other teenagers or other people in these kids lives aren't inappropriately pressuring people to make this kind of a permanent decision.
Because I think that a lot of cases, whether it's maybe like your parents have this piercing and they want you to have it too for some kind of cultural reasons, or an older friend of yours got it and now you want to get it, or like an older brother or sister or something like that.
It's important to recognize that these can have like long term impacts so you want to be like you want to be like risk averse in how this is happening.
So for all those reasons ban minors from tattoos and piercings.