We should not ban abortions, we should keep them legal and we should make sure that they stay safe as well.
Two reasons for this that I'm going to advance.
They are first and foremost, you should keep them because you have a right to that, and that's important.
And second reason is that it's a safety concern, in that abortions are going to happen anyway, and if they're going to happen anyway, you want them to be legal and safe.
So, before I get into that, I want to just give a quick overview about some like modulating things, because I think that we're fine defending certain regulation in the south for an abortions, obviously I think like things like viability could be a good standard, obvious significantly late term abortions maybe aren't necessary or defending unless that the life of the mother is at risk, things like that.
So first, rights.
And I think that it's important because motherhood and pregnancy take a significant toll on you, even if your intent is to just put the child up for adoption, the the the timeline for pregnancy can take a lot on you emotionally and physically.
Your body changes, like things that like you eat change, your mood can change, it takes a lot it out of you, could be like a stressful and a draining process, and all of these things are important, and further it could be more difficult to like maybe do your job at times, it could be more difficult to like work, you might have to take time off from work and you may not be able to get that time, because not all countries have paid medical leave parental leave.
So these are real concerns that women have when they're deciding if they want to have a children, if they want to go through the pregnancy.
And I think that's important because this is impact that it's having on their bodies.
And I think when it's a decision that is so intimately and directly affecting your body, you should have a right to make that decision, so that's why women should have the right to make that decision.
And I think that further, as long as we're talking about fetuses that aren't viable, fetuses that are still in the very early development, I don't think that there's a real moral harm to outweigh these bodily autonomy harm against that.
So I think that's a big thing.
The next argument I want to talk about is safety, because I think that this is also likely to be present.
So, I think that abortions are going to happen anyway.
And they're going to happen anyway even if you ban them, because the reason why people get abortions is because maybe they're not emotionally ready for a to have a child, or maybe it was an accidental pregnancy, maybe they don't feel like they are financially capable of supporting a child.
These are all likely the reasons why people end up getting abortions.
Some people get it just simply because they want to, they don't feel like it, but a lot of times it's it's out of necessity.
And I think that this is therefore important to recognize, because these people are going to have to have abortions anyway.
So if you don't allow it to happen at a safe and legal way, people are more likely to try to access it in less safe ways.
Black market, drugs and black market abortions that are going to be designed to satisfy a demand that is still going to exist, because we're talking about something that is fairly necessary, it's not just the you can't just flip a switch off and people aren't going to need abortions.
So given that we think that this is something that people have a right to anyway, but even if they don't, it's if it's going to happen anyway, the government should facilitate it happening in a safer way.
For those reasons, we think that you should keep abortions.