Astrology doesn't bring more good good astrology doesn't bring more harm than good because basically astrology is just so low impact, it doesn't actually bring any harm and the few marginal impacts they do have are probably positive impacts at that.
So first, why do we think that astrology doesn't actually have any impact at all?
Recognize that astrology isn't like a religion, it's not like people are looking to astrology for guidance on anything of particular importance or substance.
It is about like are you going to is it about like are you going to meet someone in your love life or are you going to like slip and fall or something or are you going to be vaguely more lucky or unlucky or some other kinds of things like that.
But these aren't actually things that truly affect human actions in a similar way.
But even if they did affect human behavior, we don't actually think that matters because this is something that people can consent into and this is important because I don't think that in a lot of ways astrology is meaningfully distinct from religion in like the philosophical sense.
So why do I think that this is true?
Because what religion essentially does is it's just like a base set of principles that come from some kind of entity or authority that is ultimately unprovable by science or facts, and you put faith in this entity to ultimately guide you into moral decision making or in order to guide your life.
In a lot of ways this sounds an awful like religion because it is an awful lot like religion.
The only reason astrology is different is a, less people believe it than religion but that's not really all that meaningful in a sense.
If anything it is better for astrology because it means that there's less plausible harms associated with it, so that's not really all going to do all that much.
But in addition to that I also want to talk about the few harms that it does give you the few benefits that it does give you because these benefits are important not to recognize because I think that in a lot of ways they key reason why humans don't behave, the key reason why humans are oftentimes unable to act in certain kinds of social context, so example like maybe why you don't ask somebody out on a date or something like that or you don't seek out a business opportunity or a job or things like that, is because you may not feel particularly lucky or you may not have the confidence to feel that you succeed in that task.
It's not so much that when you look to astrology you expect something to just happen and fall into your lap like magic.
It's more that you are bestowed with an internal sense of confidence that there's like some kind of faith backing you or some kind of faith with you in that things are going to work out okay.
But that's still usually contingent on you taking an action so I think that if anything people are more likely to take a positive action for themselves things that are good.
Like an example for this would be like maybe you're a deeply religious person and you're caught in a natural disaster and you see a rescue helicopter, you'd probably be pretty foolish to say no no no no no god will save me via a miracle.
A probably a more accurate way to conceptualize that would be god could be saving you by making sure that you get the rescue helicopter to you and therefore you should take advantage of that.
But that's just like the way in which this works generally, that's the way in which you had the principles work.
People aren't stupid, people don't expect these things to happen by magic.
So if you actually care about the impact of people feeling more empowered in their day-to-day life, people having more confidence, or people just feeling better about their day-to-day decision making, astrology probably has a marginal but yet positive impact on that and there's no harm to counterbalance it with.
So for those reasons, astrology does more good than harm.