National service should not be mandatory in the united states because it is both incredibly rights violative and it would also be bad for the civil service or public service apparatus in the in the united states anyway.
So first, why is it incredibly rights violative?
Keep in mind that there's only so much that we owe the state in the first place.
The state gives us certain services, it establishes things like fire departments, police departments, it regulates roads, it regulates a court system and things like this.
And these are all things that are designed to make our lives easier, safer and better in other various ways.
But here's the thing: we pay for those services.
That's why like for a lot of people, you can see like twenty five percent of your paycheck going to like the federal government, another dozen or so could be going to the state government, you are also probably paying a greater or like a like a separate tax into like healthcare apparatuses and things like this, you also are probably paying fines in like fees for a lot of other government services as well for using them, like say highways, you pay for like tolls and things like this.
So it's not like people are using government services for free right now.
By and large, if there's some kind of problem of like, so here's the next thing: the thing is that there's no obligation beyond like paying what you get from the government, like paying for what you use of the governments.
There's no obligation to the nation itself.
There is no obligation that like I have to like use my body or give up years of my life in service of the country, just because it's the one that happen to live in.
Because let's face it.
That country hasn't necessarily done anything that's worthy of it.
And if people choose to give back, if people choose to go into public service then that's their choice, but there's nothing that like the united states has done that makes it so that it deserves like several years of my life, in service to it, certainly not certainly not a lot of like certain or like bad parts of the US government.
And that's the next thing in that this can be like really rights violative because you don't really have any choice in the matter, in that it's really hard, it's like: national service is mandatory.
You really can't say no you can't opt out of this because the threat of this is probably going to be fines, imprisonment, the state can force you to do it essentially and that's bad because.
Besides that, it's incredibly political.
It's an incredibly political act to work for the government, especially if the government is like assigning you to various places or like ordering you to do certain things in the federal government.
So like they could order you do something in military service or to assist the military, they could order you to maybe be like an administrative assistant to like the like immigrations and customs enforcement, which I think is immoral.
They can force you to do all kinds of things and that's certainly not right.
It's not right that they can take out your voice limit your life and control your control your life and your limit your freedom in that kind of a way.
But I also think that it's bad because it's gonna be bad for national service in that rather than incentivizing a lifelong service, or longer term service at least, it's now going to be filled by people who are only there because they're being forced to be there, people who aren't really going to enjoy it that much, people who aren't going to like their job, people who aren't going to get all that much meaning from their jobs, and as soon as the term expires, people who are probably going to leave those jobs.
Maybe some people are going to like it, some people are going to stay, a lot of those people probably would have ended up doing it anyway.
So, the result is you're probably going to replace maybe a smaller group of lifelong public servants with a bigger group of people who are going to be less experienced, less happy and less willing to actually do the jobs that are required of them.
So for all those reasons don't institute mandatory national service in the united states.