We should ban herbal medicine, and we should ban herbal medicine because it's a way to trick people into spending money on fake medicine, it's not even medicine, on fake products, that they think are going to heal them.
So, I want to start by drawing a very clear distinction, between herbal medicine and between medicine that uses herbs, or other kinds of natural remedies.
Because obviously, some kinds of medicine are things that work and they're accepted.
So for example things it could vary from, if you're getting like sunburn to using aloe vera, or other kinds of things, these may be like natural in nature, but they have scientifically proven mechanisms to actually work on things.
That there's been controlled studies, published studies, that there's a lot of academic literature, that actually makes one believe that these things work.
The same could be true for a whole lot of things, like oftentimes nature does have a good deal of remedies for things, like if you have like some kind of like throat like, your throat is sore maybe, honey can be helpful, like there's all kinds of things.
But I think, that we need to draw the line at when you're trying to package something as medicine, and market it as such, when it hasn't actually been subjected to these kinds of clinical testing, to these kinds of clinical evaluations, and that's where I think that there's a very clear and flagrant line, and that's why I think that you you have a problem.
Because, when you market something as herbal medicine, especially given that you're still using the word medicine as a designator for it, this is incredibly misleading for people.
People look at something and they see that it's herbal medicine, and because it's called medicine, even if they know in their mind, that it doesn't have the same standards of evaluation maybe as clinical medicine, there's still a presumed efficacy there, there's still a presumption that it works to some extent.
And I think that this is first, especially problematic when we're talking about vulnerable people.
Like oftentimes, when people are considering getting herbal medicine, they're doing it because maybe , they're and they're like sick, they're in some kind of vulnerable position, and that leads one to do that in the first place.
But additionally, oftentimes herbal medicines, although they can be expensive, they may be comparatively less expensive than conventional medicine, and that's a big problem, because it pushes people who can't afford these more clinical medicines, rather than trying to like subsidize access to real medicine, it maybe gives them a sense of hope, or it pushes them towards fake medicines, that aren't actually going to work.
So, that's also something that I think is quite bad.
And I think, that additionally, there's also so, there's the matters of cheapness and access, and I think that that's a very clear standard for why the government should paternalize this, why the government should say: no, you can't do this, because when people are almost like tricked into thinking that something may work, but there's actually science backing something, then they're going to probably be more willing to spend their money on that, and when it doesn't work, there's not going to be anything they could do about it, they're still going to be sick, the government is probably going to have, to some extent, put the bill maybe.
So, I think that there's very clear public problems here, that require more intensive regulation.
The fact that you allow corporations to make millions of dollars off people, by tricking them into thinking that things are actually going to work, it's ridiculous, there's no reason why we should allow this.
So, for all those reasons, since it has no benefit, so for all those reasons very proud to propose.