We should not subsidize single parents.
So to start, let's try to frame what the problem here is.
By and large people who have children as like single parents can fall into like one or two categories: there's people who are by choice single parents, people who want to have a child but they're not dating anyone are married to anyone's they get donations, and on the second category of people, where it's not by choice.
Where it's a result of an accidental pregnancy, maybe even like sexual assault or some other kind of like coercive situation, maybe like a religious like religious family, things like that that can coerce you into having a child even if you don't wanna have one.
So the position that we're going to take is if you are having your child by choice and you're not able to support that child, if it's your choice then you're taking on the responsibilities of having another human being.
So you need to be able to be responsible for that.
If it's not by choice, rather than trying to deal with the consequences of all the financial consequences of an accidental pregnancy that results in single parenthood, we should instead more precisely focus our policies to actually attack the root of this problem.
Or in other words make it so that people aren't having like there's no single people aren't having children if they're not prepared for it as single parents in the first place.
So what do we think that this would look like?
This would be instead of taking the money that you used to subsidize single parents and instead using that to subsidize things like birth control, contraceptives, condoms, abortions if necessary.
Because in a lot of this money could be used way more effectively.
Obviously it takes a whole lot of money to raise a child if you're not ready for it, you have to, like whether it's like medical care, education expenses, food expenses, like clothing, like children are very very expensive.
That much is obvious.
So if you don't have a whole lot of money you're going to be heavily reliant on various forms of public assistance.
So we can lessen dependence on that in more financially efficient ways by making it more likely that people just get abortions or people will have access to birth control that maybe they weren't able to access or afford before, and maybe just maybe we could even have mandatory sex education that would make it so that people are more likely to rely on those services in the first place.
I think that you would have a lot better of a situation because you would be saving a lot of money of course.
You'd be saving money because it's just more economically efficient to to try to like prevent this problem in the first place.
But it would also by and large be more moral and a lot of circumstances.
Because a lot of people who have unwanted pregnancies or pregnancies were not prepared for pregnancies, are in like coercive situations.
They're in financial financially coercive situations because maybe they can't afford an abortion, they live in some or maybe they live some part of the world, or somewhere in the united states even, where abortions are incredibly difficult to get or inaccessible, maybe birth control isn't accessible to them for various reasons.
So by and large a lot of people who end up as single parents, they tend to be poor, they tend to be people and there's a reason for that.
Because if you have less like financial, if you have less money you're not going to be able to spend that money to essentially terminate a pregnancy early if you need to.
So I think that for all those reasons we should stop subsidizing single parents.