Nationalism is the ultimate disease of our modern times and it is certainly something that does more harm than good.
Think that there are two big reasons why nationalism is just absolutely awful for societies: first, it's bad because of the way in which it it create it otherizes the outside.
It creates it incentivize a slew of like racist policies, retroactive policies that harm people outside of the nationalistic group.
And secondarily I think that it's bad because of the ultimate injustices that it does to people inside the group as well.
The way in which it hurts its own people.
So, let's start by talking about exterior influences of nationalism.
I think that nationalism has really bad exterior influences on people because of the way in which it persuades people to think about others.
It persuades people to think about others in a negative light , like, these people of like another race trying to hurt us, it fosters a sense of light out fighting against them, it ultimately incentivize the people to be more willing to encourage and back like aggressive military action or annexation or even war, things like that.
It also incentivizes people to be very very anti immigration very inherently suspect of people who don't fit the stereotypical image of someone in that group.
So, when you look at a place like america you see a lot of like great fears of people who are like muslim or people who are hispanic, or even like african american, because it doesn't fit the idea of like the white patriot from like revolutionary times and like fit into that narrative.
I think that there is like all kinds of problematic ways in which nationalism manifests itself in that regard.
And this creates like ultimately like just bad policies and it makes it so that we treat people worse outside of those groups.
The next thing that I wanna talk about is the way in which nationalism hurts people internally.
This is also really important because nationalism can be used as a weapon to silence dissent.
, because if you are able to like paint someone who doesn't wanna support what you're doing as the government, as, you can paint them is anti american or something like that, it becomes a lot easier to just discard their arguments.
So, you can suddenly have a debate about like like socialized medicine or something like that isn't american.
You're not having a discussion about the merits of it, you're not having a discussion about whether or not good or bad, you're having a discussion about like these arbitrary values and that's a way in which it discourages the actual quality discourse of like quality discussions and ideas being brought forward.
The next, the final thing I wanna talk about though is that it also tries to persuade alter the perceptions of for people about what is important.
When when you live in like a more nationalistic society you're more likely, as I mentioned earlier, to focus on things like wars, focusing on things like national security and the like.
But all of these things come at an expense of solving interior problems.
So every dollar that gets spent on things like the military is money that can't be spent on infrastructure.
It's money that can be spent on education or health care for people.
And I think that when you're thinking about what are the more important things I think that does the the things I was talking about are certainly more important than the the more important things.
The things that affect more people's lives in a positive way.
And that is the final reason why nationalism does more harm than good.