We should not subsidize renewable energy, not because renewable energy is a bad thing or something that government shouldn't endorse, renewable energy is great and it's going to be necessary in the future.
We shouldn't subsidize renewable energies because politicians are incredibly bad actors at actually deciding what forms of energy are good forms of renewable energy, and also they're only really a drop in the bucket compared to the actual structural problems that make nonrenewable energy so powerful.
So let's start by talking about why bad forms of renewable energy are probably going to get the bulk of the subsidies.
When you look at what forms of nonrenewable energies get what forms of renewable energies get subsidies right now in places like america, you see a rather alarming trend.
You see things like ethanol which are obviously renewable it's primarily made out of corn you see things like ethanol get the lion's share of money from the government when you compare to other probably more effective things like solar power.
So why is this true?
Probably because of things like the iowa caucuses, probably because of things like various political incentives.
So I think that when you open up a market for essentially free government money, you're not really going to give that money to the best actors, the ones that are going to do the most public good or the ones are going to do the most make contribute the most to the progress of like renewable energy.
What's most likely is that political actors, people who have money, people who have power, are probably going to try to leverage that money and power in order to get whatever form of energy is going to suit them.
So whether it's something like ethanol, whether it some other kind of thing comparable that's going to be less effective, I think that at the end of the day you're probably going to see government incentives not lined up with what's actually the best form of renewable energy.
So you're not really going to get very effective subsidies, they are going to be incredibly ineffective.
You're probably just going to end up wasting that money because you're giving it to ineffective subsidies so it probably could go toward better things and it's also going to therefore signal further investment in these problematic forms of renewable energy.
But secondarily, I also don't think that these subsidies are going to be very effective for a reasons.
First because governments already subsidized of fossil fuels to a very heavy extent, most governments subsidize both the corporations and the energy itself in one way or another and that's part of the reason why fossil fuels are incredibly cheap.
But beyond that I also think that this isn't really actually going to do a whole lot to contribute to renewable energy development because I think that the amount of money that the government would probably be willing to put put towards these things isn't going to that effective.
We honestly need massive massive change in the status quo, we need things like like things like carbon taxes, things like massive revenue , things like maybe even bans of certain kinds of fossil fuels after a weaning off period.
Honestly to combat climate change we need incredibly drastic action and I don't things like minor government subsidies are going to be nearly enough to actually get the job done.
So for all those reasons, we should not subsidize renewable energy.