We should further exploit small modular reactors because they're a very good idea as far as effectively lessening environmental damages from fossil fuels and they're cost effective as well.
So first why are why are small modular reactors a better alternative from an environmental perspective?
I think that that's obvious in that despite the general scares that are often present when we're talking about nuclear energy, the fear of a meltdown, the fear that suddenly people are going to grow a third arm or something like that, in reality , nuclear energy is a whole lot less harmful.
First in the reality in its pollutants.
Obviously nuclear energy, nuclear power plants, don't really actually release pollutants, they're incredibly clean, and any kinds of pollutants that do exist are kept in incredibly secure facilities and aren't dumped into waterways or put into the atmosphere.
So they're better for the environment from that perspective.
But even in the event of some kind of accident, oftentimes nuclear meltdowns are preferable first and foremost because a nuclear meltdown is far far more rare given the level of security and engineering that goes into those kinds of things.
They're far more rare than or things like oil spills or coal mines collapsing.
Things that we may not hear as much about in the news because they aren't as sexy but things that happen on a regular basis.
Oil spills happen all the time.
Coal mine accidents happen all the time.
These kinds of things are incredibly frequent and oftentimes when nuclear meltdowns happen, a lot of the times they can be controlled a lot of times people get scared about them but they're not really all that bad like nothing bad really happened with like the three mile island thing in america when there was a meltdown.
The fukushima thing was pretty bad and the chernobyl wasn't great either, but like that's like a that's not like that's like a handful of things give it compared to like hundreds and hundreds of oil spills or mining accidents or things like that.
So in the comparative nuclear energy is better for the environment, it's cleaner, it's probably safer too.
So those are all good things.
But it's also but small modular reactors are also better in the way in which it allows an ease of a transition from a fossil fuel energy system and that's because first and foremost because it's cost effective and given the fact that it's cost effective, it's oftentimes more efficient than nuclear energy can be more efficient than things like green technology or wind -nology.
Not only more efficient energy efficiency-wise but it can also be cheaper cost-wise.
Those are all reasons why it makes it more feasible and easy to have a transition from a fossil fuel at a climate to a cleaner environment and that's important because as long as these transitions are more difficult, as long as they're harder, people are going to be more unwilling to make these transitions and they're going to be slower, they're gonna be more painful and that's really bad because it's important that we make these transitions.
So for all those reasons we should further exploit small modular reactors.