Water fluoridation brings more harm than good because it's helpful for public health, even if there are other alternatives that could possibly use, it's helpful for public health, and it doesn't come with any harms.
The only harm is cost and the reasonable we're gonna argue don't think that's a good enough reason.
So let's start by talking about health.
Obviously fluoride is very important.
Fluoride can help fight cavities, it can ensure stronger tooth health, things that are very important.
So, why is why are why is water fluoridation, why is public water fluoridation a necessary tool to make sure that you can uphold public health?
Because when you talk about people who are going to be more dependent on water fluoridation for their health, you're talking about poor people, poor people in society who are more dependent on public drinking water because they're not going to buy their bougie five dollar fiji water bottle or something like that, or they also may be less able to afford more like newer toothpaste bottles that like a ten dollar colgate pro-health five-time cavity fighting toothpaste that you like to buy, or things like that.
So, if you're gonna be less able, they're also oftentimes is less able to get dentist less able to afford dentist appointments, dentist disappointments may not always be fully covered under health insurance, deductibles could be too much, things like that.
So, water fluoridation is a good either supplement for people who already have access to these kinds of resources because it doesn't hurt that, but for people who don't have access to other alternate sources, this could be very important.
This can make sure that they're healthier.
This can be cost-saving for them, this could mean that they are better able to do like a whole lot of other things, so that I think is good.
This is incredibly important to realize when you look at this in conjunction with the potential cost of water fluoridation because there's no health harms of water fluoridation.
Water fluoridation doesn't actually have any kind of adverse impact on anyone health healthwise.
So the only thing that we have to look at is the actual money involved.
So, first and foremost, water fluoridation isn't all that expensive, doesn't cost all that money, it's fairly cheap.
So, I think that, alone, this is worth it on moral grounds because you're helping out people who wouldn't otherwise be able to have access to these kinds of things, and this is a rather important thing.
Teeth health tooth health is rather important to people.
But additionally, I also think that the health cost is going to outweigh anyway, and the reason that this is true is because a lot of the people who will if if more people start to get cavities or more people start to see tooth decay, this is not something that is going to happen for free.
People are going to have to this is going to have to get paid for somehow.
And the way in which it is going to get paid for is likely more and further straining on public healthcare systems.
They're going to be having they're going to be having just like because the public is going to have to pay for it on like some kind of like public healthcare plans most likely, things like medicaid and the like.
Or so this is a problem because what this ultimately contributes to is a problem where it would have cost less money to deal with the problem preemptively, and it also would have helped more people if the problem was dealt with preemptively.
So, you're not actually saving all that much anyway.
You're just what this would be is a long-term investment economically.
So that I think is quite good.
So, since this is important for tooth health for people broadly, it's also specifically important for tooth health for poor people because it comes with no adverse health harms and because it's quite cheap and, even if it wasn't all that cheap, which it is, the long-term health consequences outweigh this anyway.
So for all those reasons, water fluoridation brings more good than harm.