We should subsidize massive open online courses because it is an incredibly effective way to increase access to college to a college education to affordable education and oftentimes the quality of these courses can be pretty good especially if you subsidize them and you devote more resources to them.
So let's start by talking about what the problems are right now.
Right now college is incredibly expensive.
You could end up paying tens and tens of thousands of dollars taking on loans most likely because you don't have much of a credit history.
Most people don't have much of a credit history when they're like an underage person.
You're probably going to be and you're really in a coercive situation when you're taking on loans.
By and large you tend to be taking on massive massive amounts of debt with very high average interest rates that can put you in a really bad position when you're going to college.
Oftentimes a lot of people aren't even able to go to college in the first place because of those reasons.
Maybe it's because they have to work a full time job, maybe it's because they have to support a family, maybe because they're not even able to get a loan because their parents had poor credit, maybe they came from a poor background or maybe people only people struggled in certain kinds of classes and their GPA's weren't high enough even if they had other kinds of skills.
So there's all kinds of reasons why but traditional college like traditional colleges aren't always open to everybody like financially and even finances aside.
So I think as an alternative obviously open online courses can be a great correction for this.
Open online courses can be subsidized to the extent in which they're incredibly cheap if not like outright free possibly.
Furthermore, a lot of these courses can be taken at your own at your own pace.
So if you have to work during the day you can take them at night, or if you're working long hours you can just do it when you have time and it's a way in which it allows you to better manager academic schedule in a way in which is conducive to your individual lifestyle which can make it so that you're able to learn much more effectively and that's obviously a good thing.
So beyond that I also think that these open online courses can be an incredibly effective way of learning.
When you think about it all you're really getting out of traditional college experience is you're talking to your classmates, you're talking to professors, you're reading some stuff, you're writing some stuff, you're doing some kinds of you're doing some like maybe some community service on the side, but most of these things aren't like intrinsically like required like you don't have to do them at a college.
There are things that you often happen to do given the atmosphere of a college and the structure of a college but you don't have to do them at a college.
You don't have to go to college to read academic papers.
You don't have to go to college to talk professors if they're willing to email you as a part of an online course.
You don't have to talk to your classmates face to face if you're able to converse with them via digital means.
You don't have to buy like text books in like hard copies.
You can just like read digital PDF's and things like that.
There's all kinds of ways in which the digital world can function as replacement digital education and it can function as quite an effective replacement because it can fulfill a lot of the same functions.
So I really don't think that there is a whole lot of problems as for why we can't have massive online courses as an effective solution to essentially a crisis in affordable college.
So for all those reasons, we should subsidize online courses.