The bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were absolutely not justified, and I think that the biggest reason for that is because of the mass scale of civilian casualties it resulted in.
And I think that this is simply something that could never be justified, but this is specifically something that cannot be justified given that this can happen in tandem with other more preferable options, in my opinion.
So, let's start by talking about civilian casualty and civilian death.
I think that it's very clear that civilian casualties in a war are bad, something that you want to avoid.
But I think that the key reason why they have a great deal of moral weight to it is because of the idea of culpability.
So, look at it this way.
If you as the listener, like as you as the listener, if I'm like angry about something because maybe your friend did something, so I shoot you in the head, but you had nothing to do with that action.
That does not mean that you were like responsible for your friend's actions.
It doesn't mean that you did anything wrong.
It doesn't even mean that you necessarily support that.
Or, as a better example, I did not personally vote for donald trump and I do not agree with anything that he ever has or will do most likely, I do not think that I should be held responsible for the decision-making process that he goes through therefore.
So this is very clear because when you're talking about the nuclear bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki, you're not just talking about incidental civilian casualties as a result of launching a rocket into a hamas a a military target run by hamas.
Although that may not be all that great either, there's a couple of key distinctions.
First and foremost, there's the degree and totality of harm that you are levying against someone.
You're not just taking out small tactical military targets, you're trying to wipe an entire city off of the face of the earth, and that is certainly a much greater moral harm that you're imposing on civilians like tens of thousands of civilians that you are killing in one stroke is completely different.
But secondarily, I think that there is also a difference between intent to cause harm to civilians and the incidental or collateral harm that happens to civilians.
Because if you are attacking primarily military targets and there's incidental civilians, obviously that's bad, but that's more along the lines of unfortunate than you taking an affirmatively bad action.
In the same way in which it like it's obviously not good if you hit someone like accidentally in a car accident or things like that or things like that, like that may not be good, but that's not the same as premeditated murder.
And I think that's what in a lot of ways a nuclear bombing is.
It's the intentional targeting of a civilian for target for destruction.
So so two things: the degree of harm and the intent to cause civilians specifically harm are reasons why this is just so atrocious, something that we cannot possibly defend.
Let's look at this in conjunction of a hypothetical about preferable alternatives.
So, it is possible that the japanese would have surrendered anyway as a result of standard bombing practices, of standard military procedures and things like that.
It's also in the at least in the historical record, a very high degree of likelihood that one of the sticking points for the japanese is they wanted to retain their emperor and certain like vestiges of their prior systems as a condition of surrender.
And you know, in my opinion, that's a pretty reasonable condition of surrender, certainly not something that warrants dropping nuclear bombs on people.
So the US, if this deal did exist, should've accept that position perfectly fine.
Maybe that deal didn't exist, maybe you still had to participate in a ground invasion of the island.
So, you know what, I still think that's fine.
At the end of the day maybe more US soldiers would have died.
US soldiers consent into the possibility of death, especially in world war two.
There's an agreed-upon principle that if you're fighting in a war, you're possibly putting your life on the line.
That's not something that a civilian is consenting into, and I think that in a lot of ways it's woefully inadequate to just say just because someone is american, their life values more to an american government, especially given that you're talking about less civilian deaths.
That's always something that should outweigh.
So for those reasons, very proud to oppose.