We should ban fast food because fast food is really horrible for people's health.
And this is honestly has really dire national consequences.
When you talk about rising obesity and deteriorating health in places like america, but really across the world, one of the biggest causes for this is the proliferation of fast food as the regular and most common food that people are eating.
Obviously fast food is horribly unhealthy.
It has a great deal of like of cholesterol, of it's like highly caloric and has a whole lot of fat in it, it's usually made with foods that are it's often made a lot of artificial ingredients, a lot of artificial preservatives, and there's all kinds of problematic chemicals in addition the food being unhealthy in itself just because of its like nutritional content.
So fast food is really horrible for you.
And it's one of the biggest reasons why we have such high obesity rates in america and why a whole lot of people have diabetes, why a lot of people have like heart problems, one of the like largest causes of death amongst people, amongst adults.
, really the rise of fast food, and the unhealthy eating habits that people get from them, have horrible health consequences.
It lowers like how it lowers your life span, there is like a whole slew of consequences that are associated with this.
And this is of national importance, because when our health is worse and when healthcare spending has to be higher to compensate, when people are dying, and they can't really work as long, when people just aren't living as long, there's a basic like moral question there.
There's all kinds of reasons why fast food just does a whole lot of harm and we should get rid of it.
But additionally, fast food isn't even really a choice.
Because the existence of a fast food as an option necessarily prices out and kicks out healthier options.
And the reason for this is because first, fast food is just a whole lot cheaper than healthier foods like like vegetables or a whole foods, fresh foods, things like that.
So it's more likely that, especially in poor communities where you oftentimes have food deserts, you're more likely going to see healthy options getting priced out.
So generally fast food can be the only thing that's available.
But beyond that there's also not really a focus on like pre-prepared healthy meals or like healthy and faster meals, and since you are oftentimes over worked nowadays, fast food seems to be a really good option to get quick food for cheap.
And that's a really big problem because it's really a problem with the way like our economy is focused based on providing less healthy fast food to people as opposed to helping people get access to quality ingredients and healthier food.
And that's really bad for people's health obviously.
But finally I also think that there is like a really like there's a problem with fast food from like a cultural perspective.
From like a communal perspective.
Because I think that one of the biggest ways in which you bond with people, whether it's like family members or friends, one of the biggest ways that you can bond with somebody is over home cooked meals and wholesome meals.
And these meals are getting replaced by just fast food.
Well, rather than you're eating to like enjoy the experience, to enjoy the meal, you're merely eating to like shove some like tasty high caloric foods down your throat, to give you some energy and some like instant jolt of flavor.
And that's really not a really good way to really enjoy food.
So for all those reasons, we should ban fast food.