We should not limit birth control because birth control is fantastic.
In fact we should use more birth control.
We should use a lot more birth control and we should make it more available to everyone who wants birth control.
So why should we do this?
The first broad reason why are because of like very clear moral reasons why people should be able to have access to birth control.
So I think that, for starters, this goes to like a basic arguments about like a right to healthcare in a lot of ways.
So like if somebody is dying of cancer or if somebody's dying of some kind of disease, or if somebody breaks their leg and there or like or like their disabled part time because of that, or something like that, most reasonable people would agree that like you shouldn't just let somebody die, that you shouldn't just let somebody not be able to do their job for the rest of their life because like maybe they got paralyzed in an accident or something like, if you have a basic like moral understanding of the world and are probably a decent person, you'd think like when people are in need you should help them.
And in a lot of ways birth control is one of these very crucial medical like it's it's a very crucial healthcare treatment that people need.
Especially women that doesn't get that oftentimes they're not able to access enough, because like a lot of shitty health providers try to like get out of covering it.
And that's a big problem because it has a huge impacts.
When you have a baby, you're taking on huge huge biological changes and bodily changes from the very start.
You're like a very like like like food-wise can change, it like can have like impacts on your mood, it can have impacts on your ability to like do work in like certain activities, especially their labor intensive.
Obviously once you have the baby, like nursing itself, having to take care of the baby, recovering, are all things that have like a huge impact on you medically.
So like many people don't want to go through with that, quite reasonably, so wanna be able to have birth control as an option.
And moreover, as far as like just like access to birth control, the idea that like you would limit birth control and force people to take all of these bodily changes and things like that, force people to possibly have children if they don't want to have children, is absolutely preposterous.
Because parenting shouldn't just be something that you force on somebody.
Parenting is something that is like deeply important.
Like if you don't want to be a parent then there is probably a good reason for that.
Maybe you're not ready for it financially, you're not ready for it emotionally, you're not ready for it physically or whatever reason you have.
Maybe you just don't wanna have a kid.
You don't want your life to revolve around a kid and you'd rather do other stuff.
That's all legitimate.
And besides just like the legitimacy of you being able to make your choices with what you want to do with your life, which is why you should limit birth control, this also has a huge impact on the kid itself.
Because the kid is like, you don't want to have kids growing up in homes where the parents aren't like financially ready to care for a kid, or wanted to get wanted to like avoid having a kid but weren't able to do so.
So like that's really really bad.
But the like final thing is like from a financial perspective this doesn't really make a whole lot of sense either.
Because it's like a huge financial drain.
Like if if people are having children instead when they're not prepared to or women who have to like quit their jobs or not or only work part time because they also have to take care of children or maybe men have to do this sometimes too.
It can have like a huge impacts on earnings, especially people in like low people who are in like lower incomes, people who are in poverty might have to be more reliant on government services too.
So all of these things have like financial impacts as well.
But the actual real final argument that I'm going to make is that even if you think this is morally questionable, if people don't get birth control then they're just gonna get abortions.
And abortions are legally a legal right to get in most places and if somebody doesn't want to have a kid and they're able to, then they'll just get abortion.
Which is probably no more moral.
It's certainly not it's like on a similar moral.
So for all those reasons do not limit birth control.