We should further exploit geothermal energy because geothermal energy presents a wonderful alternative to the fossil fuels that we're currently dependent on that can be a lot more effective.
So let's start by talking about what exactly geothermal energy is and what the benefits of it are.
And the reality of it is that geothermal energy works in like a pretty basic way similar to a lot of other renewable energy.
So in the same way that like if you have a wind turbine the energy is getting generated by like wind turning a turbine to generate electricity, or maybe some kind of hydro electric energy where turbines are turning in a dam because the water is pushing them.
Geothermal energy operates in a very similar way.
If you've ever been to say yellowstone national park where you see like the old faithful geyser that just kind of goes up every once in a while, the earth naturally creates pressure.
It creates energy.
Given the way in which like the we have like a metal core that has like incredibly high heat and the temperature differences at various levels of the earth and the surface and what not create these kind of energy.
And this is really important because the result if we can harness this, basically we can harness the temperature differences or any time like steam is being released or hot energy is being released by the earth, we can use that to essentially like turn turbines and generate electricity in much the same way that a windmill can.
But this presents a lot of uses because geothermal energy can be useful and helpful in a lot of areas where may be other kinds of non renewable energy are going to be as effective.
So you can look at places, maybe they don't have access to a whole lot of running water, they don't have access to oceans or big rivers so they can't really use dams, maybe it's not windy enough many parts of the year, maybe it's not sunny enough parts of the year.
So geothermal energy can present like another good option.
In a lot of ways I think in the long term it can also be pretty cheap and cost effective.
Because it's something that just kind of will like naturally keep being used.
You don't really have to replace it, you don't have to mine for more energy, you don't have to drill for energy that comes out of the earth.
It's just something that's going to constantly be replenishing itself naturally and constantly providing energy naturally, which is great.
But obviously it's also preferable to the alternatives even if it's not good in its own right.
Because fossil fuels that are currently in use are way worse compared to geothermal energy.
Fossil fuels contribute to air pollution, they contribute to climate change and while they may be cheaper in the short term there certainly more expensive than the long term given the external costs that are a part of it.
So for all those reasons we should further exploit geothermal energy.