We should not abolish the double jeopardy defense because the double jeopardy defense is a vital protection to protect people against government abuse and government harassment.
So why do I think that this is a very big problem?
Because a common thing could be, oh, governments won't want to waste their time, governments won't want to waste money prosecuting people over and over again just for the sake of it if they think that they're going to lose again.
And honestly I think that that's nonsense because if there's one thing that governments around the world like doing, governments love spending money on putting people in in jails or ensuring compliance with the law.
And certainly like governments like the american government.
When you look at the amount of money that gets spent on prisons, the amount of money that gets spent on law enforcement, the amount of money that gets spent on the military, you spend like trillions and trillions of dollars more on these kinds of things then you do on other things like science or education or welfare and things like that.
So I think that first and foremost, on face, the idea that governments won't try to abuse the the lack of a double jeopardy provision to harass people is foolish.
I think it's foolish because governments are always going to have an incentive to try and get more convictions, try to put take people off the street that they look at as criminals.
I think that this is just something like it's in many ways a like part of the fabric of society and it's certainly something that's empirically true.
And I think that what we're likely going to see is that in a world in which there's no double jeopardy defense and someone gets acquitted of a crime, you're going to see prosecutors say, well it was just the jury, we're going to try again.
The judge was too liberal, we're going to try again.
Oh, well, we didn't get enough evidence this time, we're going to try again when we get more evidence.
And they're going to keep making excuses and things like that and say, you know what, we just didn't do this thing right, we can do this thing better.
Because they know that at the end of the day what people want more than anything is getting criminals off the street.
That's the way that incentives flow.
But additionally, how is this going to look?
Because oftentimes people are in prison while they're awaiting trial.
You look at things like bail can be very expensive and people can't afford bail so you could have people being almost detained indefinitely which is one of the whole points of like a lot of the protections in the first place.
When you're awaiting a trial, or if there is a fear of being retried, you could be harassed, it could be hard to find a job or maintain employment in your life because you constantly have to be worrying about going into court if you did get out on bail in the first place, because the second that you do a background check it's going to see that you have pending charges against you criminally, because they do record searches and things like that.
But finally there's going to be much more less of an emphasis on doing things right the first time if you're a prosecutor.
Because they're going to realize, well, I can just do it over again if I don't convict the person.
I don't have to worry about being as thorough with evidence gathering the first time around because I could just do it again otherwise.
And you're almost going to be making you're going to be making people less accountable because there's no risk on the prosecution of blowing their chance to put somebody in jail.
Now you're going to create a system where they can just keep doing this over and over again and I think that that's absolutely horrible, it's definitely going to get abused, it's a violation of rights, and for all those reasons do not abolish double jeopardy.