We should subsidize public transportation because having good public transportation is incredibly important to a country.
So first and foremost subsidizing public transportation is really good for the economy.
It's obviously good for the economy because when you have shorter commute times, greater ease of traveling, and more like movement, you're able to like better interconnect economies.
So by doing so you're much more able to like efficiently allocate resources.
You're much more able to allow people to have like more options to work.
You give people bigger markets that they can sell to, all things like that and these are all things that are good for the economy.
That's why like a lot of people think that infrastructure is important in the first place because it's good for the economy and it's good for like the people in that economy too.
It's also going to be good though in that subsidizing public transportation is good for the economy because it also gives people more disposable incomes because in a lot of parts of america if you don't have a car you really can't get anywhere.
Buses are often grossly inadequate and if you're in a city, oftentimes public transportation is overburdened, out of date, and not very effective particularly in places like boston, that's for sure and this creates a big problem because it means that a lot of people are spent end up going to work late because like the t is running late or it was snowing so people couldn't go to work because the t was broken or things like like things like that.
So people are more likely to miss work, go to work late, or people may need to spend money on a car because public transportation simply isn't a feasible option for them because it's not expansive enough that it's even convenient for them or accessible for them and this means that people have less disposable income because cars are expensive.
You have to buy the car or lease the car.
You have to spend money for gas for the car.
You have to maintain the car.
The car's probably gonna break down a lot so you have to do that too.
You have to get the car check ups.
Like all kinds of things that are just end up being you have to buy insurance for car too of course.
There's all kinds of things that make like obviously car ownership is very expensive.
So when people can be reliant on public transportation, it just adds like more disposable income which is good for the economy because when people have more disposable income they can like invest that income, save that income, or do whatever with that income so that's good.
Obviously subsidizing public transportation is also good for the environment too because it'll decrease congestion, it'll take cars off the street, so it'll limit the necessity to use things like fossil fuels or things like that.
It'll limit our need to keep having oil keep our dependence on oil.
It means that there's gonna be like less air pollution too because cities tend to be like pretty big in pollution.
So all those kinds of things are gonna be better for the environment and that's obviously incredibly important but finally, subsidizing public transportation is important for the people's quality of life because it's just nice that you don't have to pay for a car to get around anywhere or use it.
It's nice where you can get to places cheaply, efficiently.
It's a nice comfort to have and it's like a valuable public service that I think people have.
Nobody enjoys delays.
Nobody enjoys having to drive everywhere when it's like all of the times more relaxing to just like sit on a subway car or things like that.
So for all those reasons, subsidize public transportation.