Social media does more good than harm, because it gives people a real way to actually connect other peoples, in a much more convenient and easier fashion, and, a lot of the harms that are associated with social media are, like, incredibly non unique.
So, let's start by talking about this connectivity.
I think that, it's obvious that social media makes it a lot easier to connect to other people.
It's way easier to talk to people, view like pictures, or getting a window into their lives, because social media organizes it in a very effective way, where it's easy to access it.
All you have to do is open your phone, open your computer, and these things are there, and it's pretty easy to access.
So, I think that, this is incredibly important, because when it's easier to like socialize with other people, you're going to be more likely to do it.
If you have to like go out of your way to socialize with other people, you're not going to do it as much.
So, why do I think that it's therefore important that people are socializing with people more, or they feel more connected to other people?
First, I think that when people feel more of a part of a community, they have like a better sense of well being internally, and and this is because they just like feel like they know other people better, they feel like they like know what people are doing, or they feel like you can get a lot of like , you can like understand a lot of someone's personality from their facebook posts, or things like that, like you learn about other people this way, and you feel like you're more connected to a community, and all of that is good.
But, it also like just gives you an easier way to actually stay in touch with people, especially people who may be far away.
Like, if you go to college in a faraway state from where you went to high school, social media makes it a whole lot easier to stay connected, make sure these friendships don't die out in the same way.
I think that these things are like important from a well being perspective, and these things are nice to have, people enjoy them, and that's why people do it.
But like, also the harms of social media are, by and large, nonsense.
Like, people spend a lot of time procrastinating on social media or whatever, like okay, like people never procrastinated before the twenty first century.
Like, I don't even buy that a little bit, like people could like waste time by like reading like, like the newspaper, instead of doing their work or whatever.
Like is that all that better really?
People could waste time sleeping, or watching TV, or watching like, going to the like there's endless ways in which people have procrastinated for all of history.
Like, bullying and things like that, like or like trolling, obviously these things are like a bad like, it's not good that people are being bullied.
But like, bullying has still existed since, like, the beginning of time.
You can report people, you can block people if they abuse you, you can we can try to encourage people to reach out to authority figures if you do feel like you're getting bullied, but like, a lot of bullying also like has happened in person anyway, it's happened for all of time, like, these aren't exactly new things.
And it's important to note, because like all these things happen are like a fraction of the billions of people.
Like, the like the billions of people who use social media, and benefit from social media, they feel more connected by social media to their friends and family.
So for all those reasons, social media does more good than harm.