We should subsidize distance education because it ensures more access to education and that's incredibly important.
So the first way in which it ensures more access is just by making the literal act of going to school a whole lot easier which is great.
It makes it a whole lot easier because first right now there's oftentimes a real concentration of schools in specific locations that may not be accessible for a whole lot of people.
Like let's say that you live in a developing country you're probably not going to be able to go to some college in the united states and maybe it's not possible for you to go to the couple of colleges that exist in like a big cities or things like that.
Additionally but it's oftentimes easier to get access it's oftentimes pretty comparatively easy to get access to say the internet.
But this is even true in other kinds of contexts like for example schools tend to concentrate in america a most of the elite schools tend to concentrate in the like northeast area.
So it's increased costs of going to college there if you don't already live near the area.
Additionally there's a time problem.
A lot of people have jobs a lot of people have other kinds of obligations maybe people have to take care of family members and they can't really leave home there's a whole other kind there's a whole slew of reasons why people may not have the time to get involved in a traditional education setting.
Maybe not even go consistently to night school.
Distance learning allows you to learn at your own pace oftentimes it allows you to learn in a more customized fashion which is incredibly good.
But it also increases access in terms of money in terms of financial costs and this is obvious.
College is incredibly expensive.
You can spend tens of thousands of dollars on tuition in a ton of colleges a lot of this ends up happening going to student loans which is pretty bad for a whole lot of people.
A lot of people may not have the credit to afford it to get access to student loans.
A lot of people may not be able to afford the interest rates.
A lot of people don't think they're going to realistically make enough money post graduation to pay off student loans.
A lot of people are just freaked out of the about the idea of borrowing like tens and tens of thousands of dollars before they even start their life off.
Those are pretty reasonable things and reasons why it ultimately discourages people from getting an education.
And ultimately that's the worst outcome and it's the worst outcome because a less less education means that you're probably going to have lower career earnings it means that the workforce is less educated and your workers are less skilled.
There's less innovation and creation.
There's less economic growth there's a whole lot of reasons why you want to encourage economic why you want to encourage education.
But additionally distance learning is also something that can be uniquely helped by subsidies.
And it can be helped by subsidies because right now there's already a a large like demand that's being met for traditional colleges like there's no real shortage of traditional colleges.
But there is a real shortage of quality alternative options.
Obviously there's some alternate in the status quo like there's coursera there's like harvard open course and things like that.
But these things are oftentimes limited and they're going to stay limited because there's less of a demand for them and less economies of scale for them and all these things can be corrected if you have more subsidies so for all those reasons you should subsidize distance education.