We should abolish intelligence tests because intelligence tests don't really actually test for anything meaningful and aren't actually accurate in the way in which they evaluate intelligence and furthermore intelligence tests are also really problematic in the way in which they establish like a confirmation bias the way in which students operate in which they're catered to in the classroom which has long term impacts on their lives.
So let's start by talking about why intelligence tests are kind of stupid in the first place.
Now they don't really have a whole lot of value and the first thing is that obviously the kind of intelligence that they test for is incredibly limited.
By and large they test your ability to do basic maybe things like some basic problem solving or a certain kind of problem solving, maybe do some basic math or other kinds like that, time tests things like that.
But here's why those things aren't all that important.
So first, these are all things that you can by and large study for.
So if you maybe have like if you already had more of an educational background when you were taking the test, and you're better prepared for it you can already read better, you can already write better, and do some kinds of basic math better when you're taking this task, doesn't necessarily mean that you're more intelligent.
It just means that you were exposed information that made you more conducive success on the test and furthermore, on the flip side of that just because you didn't do well on a test it doesn't mean that you are in any way like inferior or not really intelligent.
It just means that maybe there are certain things that you haven't learned yet.
But additionally, other kinds of things like testing your ability to solve a problem quickly oftentimes these just aren't really skills that are all that important.
Like maybe in some occupations it's important to be able to do things quickly like if maybe if you're like a lawyer and you're making an argument, you need to be able to have extemporaneous speech or I guess debate would be rather applicable when you're giving an extemporaneous speech.
But if you're doing maybe academic research, by and large you're probably not doing things in this like time sensitive manner.
It's much more methodical.
So I think that a lot of the times and this doesn't even get into the fact that there's obviously whole other kinds of things that can determine your successfulness in life and your qualifications things like emotional intelligence, interpersonal interactions and things like that.
So I really don't think that they actually evaluate intelligence in a particularly meaningful way.
But I also think that intelligence tests can be pretty problematic in the way in which they create a confirmation bias.
The way this often works is from a young age people are given intelligence tests usually kids from like like better off backgrounds take these tests, do well in them, get funneled into gifted programs, have teachers and schools that tell them your special snowflakes and then they ultimately end up being in a are like already are a likely better position.
They tend to be pushed more rigorously and from the start are often in a better position to excel academically.
While on the flip side, oftentimes a lot of people who don't have those kinds of advantages are told from the very beginning that there's just something inferior about the way in which their brain works that they're not really smart enough to be taking this the hard taking harder classes, pushing themselves as much academically and I think that just like the stigma that comes with being labeled as like maybe below average intelligence per se based on the results of some like test can like be damaging on the way in which people look at themselves too.
If you look at yourself as below average intelligence or something like that maybe you're not as likely to push yourself academically because you're discouraged and you don't think that academics are the are like right for you.
So for all of these reasons, I think we should abolish intelligent tests.