We should lower the age of consent for two big reasons.
First, we should lower it because this is an individual choice that people should have the right to make and secondarily, we should lower it because the way in which it's applied is ultimately used to just target the relationships of young people.
So let's start by talking about choice.
I think that obviously the underpinning of a democratic free society like america is one in which there is a presumption of individual choice and individual freedom.
You should be able to make life choices of what you want to do what you think is important to you as long as this isn't actually hurting other people.
So I think that this is very important because this is why it's specifically important that people have the freedom to make choices that they want when it's in terms of who they love, who they have sex with, who they have a relationship with, and I think that that's particularly important because those are the kinds of relationships or interactions that first are uniquely personal.
They're the ones that are going to be the least harmful to other people and they're the ones that aren't actually going to do those things.
Second, they're also incredibly personal in the fact that they mean a lot to the individual person.
They are very being able to like be with the person that you love is an incredibly important thing to individual people.
So those are all important things and finally because of rational consent because of the fact that this is a perfectly reasonable decision.
By the time that you got to like consent ages are oftentimes now at like eighteen and sixteen.
Presumably a few years earlier, maybe by the time someone gets to high school, they're already prepared to like date people, to hook up with people.
These are things that reasonable decisions to make and I think it's important to note this as for why this is the case is because oftentimes there's already like education on this.
People are already getting sex ed by then, but I think additionally it's not like it's takes all of the maturity in the world to like date people.
This isn't necessarily something that is so important that it's something that we have to regulate.
I think that we should just defer to individual choice on this one.
But the second line of argumentation I wanna advance is about the way in which ages of consent are applied in practice to actually hurt people because I think that the traditional scary example that we all think of with respect to the age of consent is like this thirty year old guy trying to date this twelve year old girl, is actually not a very common one.
It's not the way in which this usually happens.
It's quite rare that this actually happens and I think that that would also still presumably be criminalized on our side of the house.
I think that the problem that we're talking about though is that what this oftentimes results and is maybe like high schooler a senior in high school dating a freshman in high school, or a junior in college dating a senior in high school maybe or those kinds of relationships where they're ultimately not a very big age gap but it's a it's a small age gap in a lot of cases but it happens to be sat under a few critical years that are on different sides of the ban.
And this bright line is therefore just something that's inherently arbitrary.
It's not one that has any real meaning because once you turn like a couple of days older or a year older, you're not getting any like more reasonable measure of maturity or anything like that but what does ultimately does is this bright line does criminalize people who are in these kinds of relationships, and I think that's something that is quite bad and because that just constitutes more of these relationships that are still illegal, I think that those are the ones that are more likely targeted by these kinds of policies like the the age of consent being higher.
So for all those reasons very proud to propose.