Global warming is a major threat, not just a major threat, it's an existential threat for three reasons.
First, because basic human habitability of our planet is on the line.
Second, mass starvation is on the line.
And third, super-powerful, wide damaging, natural disasters will be more frequent and more destructive, all things that are quite bad and certainly constitute major threats.
So let's start by talking about basic habitability.
Global warming is going to lead to glaciers melting and ice caps melting, and it's estimated that sea levels are going to rise as a result of this.
It's a phenomenon that we've already started to see happening.
So this is a problem because most people live on the coast.
You look at major population centers in the united states, for example.
You look at places like new york, boston, miami, florida, washington DC, you look on the west coast, you look at places throughout california, you look in places like in you look at places in like europe.
This is also a phenomena.
Tel aviv is on the water as well.
This is going to be a big problem.
So, these places can be under water if there's too much flooding.
There could be widespread flooding.
Parts of these cities can be uninhabitable, or entire sections can be uninhabitable.
For context of what this looks, like you could essentially imagine the devastation in new orleans after hurricane katrina where the entire area was flooded.
Imagine that but everywhere, and imagine that everywhere constantly and not just sporadically when there's a rare natural disaster like that.
This is quite bad and it will make basic cities that we've had unlivable.
This at worst means that everything that we've previously built there is going to be unusable and we're gonna have to leave.
So that's like very very bad.
At the best-case scenario you can imagine is that it's going to cost incredibly large amounts of money to fix this problem, things that we probably don't even have the access to, building levees across an entire nation, things like that.
But, an additional problem is the idea about starvation.
So, a lot of food can't grow outside of specific temperature rains ranges.
So if it gets too hot, wheat won't grow.
If it gets too if it gets too cold, maybe like fruit will stop growing or vegetables will die.
So this becomes a big problem because through global warming, you're also going to see a continued desertification as well.
So you're going to be seeing that certain like soil nutrients are gonna be more lacking.
So in addition to like temperature range going on, you're also going to see soil entire soil areas be less conducive to growing.
So a concept of what this looks like is you could look at things like the dust bowl in you could look at like dust bowl problems in oklahoma.
You could think about trying to grow an orange tree in the sahara desert or trying to grow wheat in the sahara desert.
It's probably not going to work very well for you.
Imagine this is a global phenomena.
Food is going to be more expensive and it's going to be less available.
This will lead to billion like millions of people dying probably, something that's very bad.
But finally, it's important to focus on natural disasters.
When you're talking about natural disasters, it's no secret that we've had record-high temperatures, and we've also had heat waves that have killed people.
So you look at the recent heat wave in pakistan that resulted in numerous deaths.
When you look at hurricanes, they're more vicious than ever, that are going to completely rip apart places.
When you look at storm surges that have never been as high before, when you look at historically destructive winters like the one that we had in boston a couple of years ago, these things are happening at a greater frequency than they ever had.
And these things happen because of climate change, because increases in temperature make it so that hurricanes can be more destructive and they can grow more frequently.
When you look at record cold, these things are global warming is not necessarily the most precise term, climate change is a better term, and oftentimes these things happen as a result of that.
This obviously can result in mass human casualties, mass infrastructural damage, mass like work in lack of productivity in a lot of contexts, all things that are quite bad.
So for all of those reasons, global warming is an incredibly major threat.