We should not abolish standardized testing.
So before I get into any of the details about this, I want to be very clear about a clarification of the scope of this debate because recognize that standardized testing does not necessarily mean entirely embracing the way engaging with standardized testing.
Doesn't mean entirely following the status quo.
So this means that we don't necessarily have to have high-stakes testing.
Nor does it mean, in fact, we would like to defend the opposite: that the funding of schools is contingent on their success, and that schools lose funding if they perform poorly.
If anything, we would argue for the opposite of such a system possibly.
So, let's start with an overview.
We think that standardized tests are important because they determine a good baseline of information which is important for resource allocation, and that secondarily the way in which such decisions are made, in absence of standardized testing, would ultimately be more biased and more pernicious.
So, let's start by talking about the like access of information, why it's important to have standardized tests as an source of information.
Because recognize that whether you're talking about something like the SATs and the ACTs in which there is a limited number of spots for college admission, or you're talking about where you should allocate limited federal funds or state funds for education, there's always going to be more limits on the resource compared to the the need and demand for that.
So this is very important because you need to come up with a way to fairly determine where these resources should go.
And I think that this is where standardized testing can play a very important role.
Once if you establish uniform, objective, standardized tests, you're able to see who's performing better, who's performing worse, which areas, which types of students, etcetera.
This is incredibly important because this lets you have a better idea of who needs more help, who needs more focus, where should more money go, and this is actually very important towards making sure that schools can be more effective in actually dealing with problems.
So that's incredibly good.
But, additionally, it's also important to note that the counterfactual can be a whole lot worse.
Because in a world in which there isn't actually standardized testing, what does this world look like?
You are already going to have assumptions that if like college, for example, isn't going to look at an SAT score, ACT score, they're probably going to defer to other metrics like engagement in extracurriculars, engagement in some kind of like activities or traveling, or the rigorousness of your courses, things like that, and all of those things are disproportionately more likely to hurt lower-income people or worse-off people.
And the reason for that is because they quite simply aren't able to access these things in the same way.
Oftentimes a lot of these schools are less likely to offer these kinds of things, maybe like they don't have a debate team, or you don't have the money to go to a debate tournament in the high school that can help you get into college, or people are just going to assume that if you go to in inner city public high school, it's more likely to not be as rigorous as a private high school in the suburbs, and people are going to then internalize that.
And a standardized test give them the way to get around that.
It's obviously not a perfect metric but at least it gives you a way to an objective way to prove yourself.
It gives you an objective way to actually demonstrate your knowledge on certain things.
And I think that this is also important for schools too in absence of that, because I think that in a lot of ways in absence of this, you're not going to exactly know what need is going to look like for schools.
So I think that state or federal government would be more likely to defer to a more egalitarian distribution, which may sound good, but that doesn't necessarily match up with need.
So ultimately, that wouldn't be all that good.
But, additionally, I would finally argue that there's no real harm to standardized testing in a lot of ways, especially if it's not high-stakes and standardized testing is being largely used for information gathering and things like that.
It's certainly better than the alternatives and it can certainly just be implemented in better ways than it is in the status quo.
So for all those reasons, we should not abolish standardized testing.