Nationalism, does more good than harm for two big reasons.
First, because it creates a collective sense of identity and a collective sense of belonging and a collective sense of cultural pride, which is incredibly important in the well being of people and happiness of its people, and secondarily, it's important for , it creates a situation of collective action or unified action, which is very important for adopting like shared values, shared principles, and also shared burdens, which I think is very important in terms of like a functioning modern country.
So let's start by talking about the sense of identity.
I think that it's quite clear and obvious that you through nationalism do get a good deal of like appreciation for one's nation.
Umm people, a lot of people are like, like so many people are like proud to say, like the phrase proud to be an american.
It's a think that's very common, or, nationalistic pride like waving around your flag and things like that, all of these things I think are important because they happen for everyone in all of the nations that they live in, it gives them a sense of belonging and a sense of pride as for where they're from and where they're born.
And I think that's important because it gives you a sense of belonging and identity in that you have a language to fall back on like a group of like , cultural icons to fall back on, foods to fall back on, it gives you like a sense of like umm it gives you like a large sense of identity and things like that.
These are those things that are just like important and I don't think they actually cause any harm in a lot of senses, because I think a lot of the ideas like war mongering and the like, a lot of that is just selfishism and that directly umm contradicts itself with the second thing I'm going to talk about which is about the idea of shared values.
Because I think that, nationalism isn't something that you can uniquely pin down to any specific manifestations or principles.
It's something that's bigger than that.
So you look at a lot of places in europe for example, the way in which nationalism manifests itself is a collective sense of a feeling of obligation to help people, collective obligations to help the poor, collective obligations to enact social justice and things like that, collective obligation to do those kind of things, all of which are very good and they make sure that you have like unified values, things like respect for international law, these are all things that create a unified set of values to make sure that people in the country are going to be acting along similar norms and similar lines, to make sure that they're going to be having like respect for people things I think are incredibly important.
But, I additionally think that most importantly, nationalism does good in the way in which it interacts with burden sharing.
And I think that it's difficult to get people to, it's difficult to crack through the collective action problem in that people don't wanna go like, maybe serve in the military, so they're not really having people to do that, or the fact that people don't want people in theory like spending money on helping poor people, but they don't wanna actually spend that money themselves, they don't wanna actually volunteer in themselves, do those kinds of things.
I think that nationalism creates in many ways a sense of shared obligation, the sense of shared burdens.
So it links people together inextricably, because you're from the same place you're from the same nation, you have a shared respect for each other's identity and being and and individual work.
So I think that you're more likely to empathize with them you're more likely to help them, you're more likely going to take on burdens, which means that you're more likely going to see more equitable burden sharing.
So that I think is very good.
So, for all of those reasons, nationalism does more good than harm.