National service should be mandatory in the US first, because there is a duty and an obligation that you have to help your country in a certain capacity because of what it gives to you and secondarily, this is almost a form of paternalism because it's going to force solutions to problems of youth unemployment and function almost as a progressive way of job placement.
But first I want to talk about the model for this and about how we foresee the implementation of national service because when national service in the united states should be mandatory.
I think that obviously this can include military service but it can also include non military service in the way of serving in one of the merry many bureaus and agencies or even in some kind of like national office in a more local capacity.
This could also mean some kind of trade job or training in that regard things like that.
We also don't necessarily care when you do it as long as you do it like in like a reasonably soon part after in your life.
So if you're not going to college maybe this could be after you turn once you turn eighteen you do it for say like two, three years.
After college you can do it for a few years or maybe even after say law school you could do something like say be a public defender.
I don't want to constrain the ways in which national service can be done and I think that we would have a rather expansive view about what would qualify as long as it's serving a public interest and it's being done at a reasonable at a reasonable time in an early point in your life.
So let's talk about the duty to help your country because any financial success or career success that you're going to have later in your life is while in large part due to your own successes, also due to the system that the country creates for you as a whole.
Whether it's the capacity to like secure your assets the safety and security that your country provides to you the legal systems and the justice system that the country provides in order to mediate conflicts and make sure that justice is upheld or the more basic ways in which just like various utilities public utilities are served for you.
We rely on these things in just about all aspects of our lives.
It's impossible for us to really go about our daily lives without relying on the government and its services in one way or another and this is very important because even though everyone in society takes advantage of a lot of services that the US government provides, they're notoriously undervalued and notoriously understaffed in a lot of circumstances.
So you could have people like public defenders who serve very important public purposes to make sure that our criminal justice system can like stand up for itself and they're notoriously overworked and notoriously understaffed because a lot of people don't go into those careers because they don't see that is where the money lies.
So you necessarily have to create this mandatory requirement in order to push people into these careers that while they may not be as lucrative serve an incredible public importance.
But I also think that this is important because it means you're going to get better and more qualified people.
So no longer are public service jobs just going to be for the people who can't get inside like more lucrative private sector jobs.
It's going to be something that everyone goes through which is going to mean that the quality of performance in these jobs are higher but it's also going to create more of a sense of importance amongst the population for these jobs.
The final thing that I want to talk about is about job assistance in placement because I think that that's very important too.
I think what this is going to do is it's going to force job creation because you're going to be when you're required to do something it's going to force the government to ensure job placement in public service industries.
So in a time in which there's high youth unemployment and a lack of job opportunities for a lot of youth, especially more underprivileged youth, this is a very vital way to get someone's foot in the door for a career and create job experiences which can help someone for the rest of our lives.
So for all those reasons national service should be mandatory.