We should definitely raise the retirement age because the aging because this is just a problem that is urgent right now, and it's something that we absolutely need to make sure that we fix before it becomes too big of a problem to deal with, and I additionally think that there's not any real or inherent harms to raising the retirement age.
So let's start by talking about the urgency.
Because they think that there's a number of factors that make raising the retirement age something that we have to do immediately.
There's first the fact there's a lot of aging baby boomers in our society.
There secondarily a lot of population decline, people aren't having as many children as they used to.
Third there is a lot of general economic stagnation across a lot of western economies and, finally I also think that the there's there is also an increasing quality of healthcare, which means that people are living longer.
So all of these things combined, create a very bad time because, all of this means that you're going to be having a bunch of healthy people retiring in the very near future, who are going to be living for decades longer, they could be living for another thirty years, forty years, and that presents a real problem because when these programs were instituted, as far is to make them economically feasible, they were implemented with a much shorter time frame in mind, because standard retirement age of sixty five back in the nineteen thirties, would be pretty reasonable if you only thought you're going to live probably into your sixties or seventies.
But now people are living into their eighties and nineties, and maybe even up to a hundred, and these are all things that the state has to foot the bill for, if you're not going to be able to have enough money raised for this.
And this creates a really big problem, because you're going to see a lot of things like social security fund going broke, a lot of like insurance backup plans going broke an all of these kinds of things, or people defaulting on their ability to playoff pensions, all of these things that are that could be absolutely catastrophic for elderly people.
So, I think that the only thing that you can do from there is increase the retirement age.
By increasing the retirement age, you keep more people in the workforce for a longer amount of time while they're healthy.
You make sure that people aren't settling for getting all these government benefits , unless they're people who truly need them in the later parts of their life, not thirty years before they die.
All of these things are very important to note.
So, the other thing I wanna talk about is about why this move of raising the retirement age is, doesn't actually have all that much harm to it.
So the first thing I wanna talk about other than this is that, you don't have any intrinsic right to retire necessarily like, it's definitely, like the fact that you're getting old doesn't mean that you have necessarily the right to all of these government benefits at any specific time, especially if you are deemed still able to actually do things.
And I think that therefore, we can determine the need that people actually are having these things.
So, that's important to note.
And it's important to note because I think that, people, there's no real harm to making people work longer.
Like, people may be lazy or people may feel tired of their job or people may be old, but that doesn't mean that they still can't work and they still can't do their job for a longer amount of time, for another ten years, since they are going to be living for a long amount of time.
It just means that people are going to be working longer that's the real harm.
And I think that most people are still capable of working for a longer amount of time.
And I think that our retirement age as a bright line is inherently arbitrary and foolish anyway, because keep in mind that if you're like a fifty year old coal miner you're probably going to be much more in physical need of retirement than a seven sixty five year old lawyer.
So, the the bright line with retirement is already arbitrary meaningless as is, we might as well, just make sure that we can raise it so that way it's actually going to be economically feasible.
So, for all those reasons, very proud to propose.