We should not subsidize journalism for two big reasons.
First, off I think journalism is a waste of money, and it props up an archaic way of actually getting news and information, and secondarily I think that this is the subsidizing of journalism by presumably governments, is going to create a lot of problems with respect to freedom of speech and independence of the press, and actually impacts the content of our information itself.
So, let's start by talking about why I just think it is a waste of money.
Honestly I, think that the organizations that provide the most value in terms of investigative reporting and in terms of actually under uncovering scandal in terms of actually informing people and rally important issues, these tend to be organizations that are probably going to be fine.
These are organizations like the new york times, the washington post, boston globe, these are organizations that, sure they're experiencing less money and less returns on money, there going to have to make cuts, but just because something isn't lucrative as it once was doesn't mean that it's still not going to be a workable occupation.
So I think that where the vast majority of the subsidizing is going to go is not towards these more valuable journalistic institutions.
It's going to go more towards like smaller and local journalists.
Things like, like I don't know like, like, channel twelve news from waltham or whatever.
And these are institutions that I don't think are necessarily all that important.
I don't think that the loss of these is going to be all that important.
I think that it doesn't, you don't need to have like every single talent or every single you don't have to have every single like, area having its own like, news agencies and things like that.
It's not necessarily important.
Most people just don't really watch the local news anymore.
Most people just don't read local newspapers anymore.
It's simply an outdated way of getting your information in an era where you can get both your information on the internet from pretty reliable sources.
If you actually value looking at the reliability of the sources yourself, you can access this for free, it's much more convenient, it's much better, it's much more aplicable to your individual specific case on what kind of news you want to learn more about.
And I think that propping up this archaic system just isn't something that we should necessarily do / but I also wanna talk about the freedom of speech and freedom of press implications, because I think that this is only going to make an already existing problem worse in the than it is the status quo.
I already think that a lot of journalists and a lot of like newspapers are unwilling to criticize corporations that do bad things and are unwilling to criticize a lot of corporations because there's a dependency on them.
So like, a clear example of this is that amazon's practices, like the company amazon's practices are probably not going to get critiqued by the washington post anytime soon, because jeff bezos owns both of those things.
This is the same for a lot of things like if like rupert murdoch owns fox news and the wallstreet journal, any of his other business enterprise are probably not going to get all that criticized.
You're probably much more likely going to see more pro business coverage, more pro business environments and what this does is this restricts the actual access of information to people in that it restricts or it alters in a lot of ways the content of information that people get.
Now if this would happen to governments, I think this would be even worse.
Because you can imagine a situation where the livelihood of people's careers, the livelihoods of journalism and things like that is reliant on federal money.
And if this is the case, you're probably not going to want to piss off the people who are actually giving you this money.
Like, the easy example of this would be I think that in a reality in which the like washington post is is like dependent on donald trump for funding, they're probably not going to want to criticize him all that much, but I think that this is also just like more broadly applicable because unlike specific issues, it's more likely to lead to less contentious focuses and things like that.
So, I think that this is going to be very bad because you're going to get less critical journalism, you're going to get less critical engagement with other sides of issues, and I think this is going to reduce the independence of journalism, which is I think one of the biggest things that makes journalism important.
So for all those reasons, we should not subsidize journalism.