We should absolutely further exploit nuclear power because it is cheaper and more more efficient than a lot of alternatives, and because it's also better for the environment and cleaner than a lot of the alternatives.
So let's start by talking about why it's cheaper more effective.
The sad reality is that while things like solar energy wind energy in hydroelectric energy are great non renewable resources, they're also by and large not very efficient and very expensive compared to our actual need.
And that's a problem because while those are viable long term strategies, the reality is that things like climate change and pollution and all that are big problems, and they're big problems right now, that we need to solve right now.
And they aren't just things that we can wait a decade or so until technology develops and investments develop in green technology and things like that.
So, as long as that's the case we need to look at alternatives and I think that nuclear energy is an incredibly viable alternative a great alternative in fact.
A lot of countries like france predominately get their energy from nuclear power.
It's mostly places like america which is one of the biggest the biggest polluter in all of history, that is reliant on sources of energy like coal and gas and things like that.
So why are these forms of , so obviously coal and gas are bad in that like their big polluters things like that.
The big appeal for them is that they're cheap compared to green technologies.
However, nuclear energy is incredibly efficient in the way that it's used and it's oftentimes a whole lot cheaper, because you don't really need all that much uranium.
It's not like weapons grade uranium.
Like you don't really need to enrich it to pass certain levels and things like that all that much.
You don't need to get as much like advanced technologies and things like that.
In a lot of ways we've been using nuclear power for a long time, it's pretty like well developed, works pretty well, it's efficient, checks up all the boxes for a workable source of of our energy.
And this important because they also think that it's clean and good for the environment.
So there's some people who are like: " wow, wait.
But what about the possibility of a nuclear meltdown and radioactive waste and things like that?
That sounds pretty bad for the environment. "
So, true, those things may not be great but first and foremost those things are pretty rare.
There's only a handful of cases where you actually see nuclear power plants going to melt down, and these are usually the results of like very rare natural disasters.
So things like a tsunami in case of fukushima or things like that.
But oftentimes it's not the result of like the technology itself being bad, it's a result of natural disasters, which is a problem because you can just as easily see these accidents are just as common with things like oil and natural gas.
You see explosions with this kinds of things all the time, you can see like oil spills literally happen all the time.
There so much oil in the oceans, it's ridiculous and it's obviously horrible for wildlife and these things are oftentimes more widespread.
It's maybe just not as like eye popping as nuclear meltdowns in most cases, so I think that's a big thing there.
But it's also important because the next thing is also on the issue waste and things like that.
So nuclear waste is like probably a whole lot better than pollution and things like that, in standard things like coal and coal mining or injecting chemicals into the ground for something like fracking for oil or any of these kinds of things.
The bigger reason for that is like it's a pretty big world and it's pretty easy to secure nuclear waste in like individual facilities and places like that, in incredibly secure locations.
So like you can like store it like deep underground or like in mountains and things like that, where there's almost no risk of it actually going anywhere.
And like sure it's going to build up forever, it's essentially a nuclear landfill which isn't great, but ultimately these things are a whole lot better than the status quo, which is most of these things instead pollution just gets pumped into the air that we breathe, which is bad.
So yes, further exploit nuclear power.