We should absolutely further exploit green technology.
Because, global warming is a threat not just in the narrow sense, it's not just a threat in that we have to cut co2 emissions from our cars, it's not a threat in that we have to use more renewable sources of energy, or not cut down so many habitats.
It's more , it's more broad in the fact that every aspect of our daily lives in various ways needs to change in order to make sure that we can actually the earth is livable in the future, because the earth is in danger.
So, I think that in order to make sure that this happens, we need to have a wide range of solutions and a wide range of technologies.
So this is where I think that green technology comes in and why it's important that we further exploit it.
Way I think that the first way in which umm green technology can actually directly help umm combat climate change, is that it can help in , just the technology of doing things like maybe purifying water in a better way so you can you saltwater instead of having to access like draining water out of like lakes and things like that.
Maybe you could be automatic switches for turning off lights when you're not there, maybe it could be things like that to monitor over used, maybe it could be other things like improvements on the way we heat efficiently, or on the sources of heat that we use altogether that could be done more efficiently.
I think that all of these things can be incredibly helpful, and one of the biggest reasons why, is because I think that people are going to be very unwilling.
Even though it's required that people change the way they're actually living their lives, it's going to be very difficult to persuade people to actually change their lives.
So because of that, you want to make sure that the transition can be smooth as possible, and that's why having good technologies that can exist as replacements is important.
So this is why for example if you know that meat consumption is incredibly bad in what it does for the environment and you wanna replace it, you're not gonna get people to stop eating meat.
So what you want to do is you want to create the best like replacement item possible so that people may not even be able to tell the difference.
So if maybe you can use chemical engineering to create synthetic meat or something like that that tastes good, people would be willing to not eat meat, and that would be good for the environment.
Things like this, these are direct solutions that can have massive impacts, but these solutions require money, and the reason they require money is because people just aren't always willing to donate enough because people can be economically shortsighted at times.
People are just willing to spend the money on the thing that's already available, and when a lot of people are already getting into that or it's already existed for a while, economies of scale and things exist, it's very easy to keep relying on the mechanisms that you already have.
This is why I think that green technology plays a very important role in ultimately spearheading the kinds of switches that we can get.
So, all of that is true and all of that is important, and a reason why it's important is because of the degree to which climate change is an actual threat.
Because recognize that, if we have inherently fragile resources, scarce resource, things like access to fresh water, things like what we use for fuel, those things are scarce and when we over use them, then we're in a very bad situation.
But also more directly than that, we also see the impacts of global warming manifests itself in natural disasters.
You could have like , more hurricanes than ever, historical heat waves or historical blizzards, you could have earthquakes that happen from things like fracking, you could have flooding and starvation from temperature fluctuations and icebergs melting.
All of these are directly attributable to global warming, and all of this, which is the worst things, the worst impacts that we could have, all of this can be ameliorated if we invest more in green technology.
So for all of those reasons, very proud to propose.