Abolishing needle exchange programs is an absolutely horrible idea, it's not going to deter people from doing drugs like heroin, it's not going to cure addiction, it's not gonna deter anyone, all it's going to do is spread diseases more rapidly, which is bad, and be incredibly unsafe for incredibly vulnerable people, which is immoral and awful.
So, that's why we should keep needle exchange programs.
First, why do I think that abolishing needle exchange programs solves absolutely nothing.
Like, there is no tangible good that can come out of it.
And the reason for this is like the idea of it is like, when you give drug addicts needles to use, they're gonna use those things to do drugs.
So like by magic if you don't give them the needles, then they're not going to do drugs or they're gonna to do it less or something like that, which is like absolutely ridiculous.
First and foremost on like like a logical level, and second on a like emotional understanding and like our scientific understanding even.
So like, first on a logical understanding like, if people are, it's already like drugs like heroin which are predominantly what get used for these things, like, these drugs are already illegal in the status quo they're already somewhat difficult to access in the status quo, you already have to like do a lot to get these kinds of things and the like.
If you're willing to like go out of your way, so like, consistently acquire heroin and use heroin when you probably know that it's not all that safe or useful, I don't think that the absence of a clean needle is going to curtail you, especially given that there's going to clearly be a whole lot of people who since they're addicted to drugs are just going to rely on using old needles, using needles that they find lying around, using someone else's needle, all things that are gonna be like much much more dangerous.
, I also think that this is going to like lead, like it leads to, like it's a very naive way to actually look at addiction because people don't, people keep using drugs not because they maybe think that it's like affirmatively good, but because like they feel like they have to because they don't know what they could maybe do without it or things like that.
I think that the most important thing that we should be doing is emphasizing a willingness of people getting treatment.
So, if you wanna make sure that people are more willing to actually get treatment for drug addiction, how about instead of keep making it more and more difficult, keep shaming them or like by like getting rid of their support services, how about you try like bring them in more how about you try to actually help them a whole lot more, give them these needles and when they come to get those needles make sure you're asking them do you want help, make sure that they are aware of resources that they can have access to, all these other kinds of things, and that's like a whole lot better way of actually decreasing stigma associated with drugs, that can save lives.
But, let's talk about like the safety concerns associated with needle exchange programs.
First for drug users and second for society more broadly.
So, like I said, people are still going to do heroin anyway or other kinds of drugs anyway with dirty or less safe needles.
This does lead to things like HIV and AIDS getting transmitted, it leads to other diseases as well, being more likely to get transmitted.
So that's bad.
That's bad because it means that more people are going to get sick and die, but it also means that like there's more of a general prevalence of these diseases.
Like, you don't want to have like higher like even if it's like because like, drug addicts aren't just like there's a warded off segment of the population, like they have sex with people who don't do drugs maybe, or like even if that's not like these things like can spread by other means like, like if you get HIV or aids, if like you bleed on to someone and like it can get into contact with someone else, or like saliva even in some other kinds of diseases, so it's like this is like, diseases can spread and you don't want to just like let people die of these diseases because that has a really wide social impact.
So, clearly you want to make sure that you like keep maintaining public health.
There's a reason why international health organizations maintain these things, also, these things are literally like like these things are like pennies out of national budget, it's like, these things probably cost like point one percent of a national budget.
These things aren't actually all that meaningful as far as like like the money is concerned, but they are really meaningful on the individual level.
So for all those reasons, don't abolish needle exchange programs.