We should abolish personality tests because personality tests are and a lot of ways essentially junk science and we definitely shouldn't actually be making important decisions on them, especially things relating to employment and jobs.
So let's start by talking about why exactly personality tests or junk science.
So for starters people are incredibly diverse.
Obviously personality exists, people have different personalities, but what personality tests actually test for is rather ridiculous.
By and large the way that they are conducted is in the form of self evaluation in questions, which is already rather foolish because whenever you're trying to do some kind of self evaluation there's always going to be contamination there.
People oftentimes have different portrayals of themselves than their actual reality.
There's probably not that many people who are willing to say their dishonest or like overly aggressive or like people tend to look at themselves through rose colored glasses and probably aren't going to be the most honest.
Furthermore, people are oftentimes, even if they're okay at broadly assessing their personality, certainly aren't going to be able to do it in a precise way in terms of like some of these arbitrary distinctions that come up.
So the so it's asking you maybe if you're a more of an introverted person or an extroverted person because you're more likely to maybe go out on a friday night round and just stay at home and watch TV.
And you're saying this is very likely, like very much like me or extremely like me or kinda like me, these are all like very fine distinctions and the way in which you evaluate them is probably ultimately going to be arbitrary.
But even beyond all of those things, I also think that the way in which it breaks it down is also kind of ridiculous because people are really diverse in their personalities.
There aren't just like eight types of people in the world, there's many types of people in the world.
So trying to like put people into boxes in a way which may be tries to like it like, on a really superficial level, tries to make it easier for you to assess someone as a person.
Does really give you a holistic understanding about person at all.
So given all of that we definition use this as a basis of any kind of evaluation whatsoever.
We definitely shouldn't be using them.
Whether it's the police or military or a business or anyone shouldn't be using personality tests as an actual means of evaluation because this kind of ridiculous.
Besides the fact that you're probably not going to get very accurate results and therefore if you're using this is an evaluation, you're probably going to be rather disappointed in the when this actually comes to fruition.
But it's also rather unfair.
Maybe the test ultimately labels somebody as dishonest when they're not actually dishonest or maybe the test is going to say someone tends to not really like authority all that much because they said they don't like when the government does XYZ thing, but that doesn't mean that they're not going to listen to their boss if their boss gives them like a job to do.
So oftentimes personality tests can also paint people in an unfair light which could maybe make it more difficult to find employment, or maybe the right kind of employment, so you definitely don't wanna be using personality tests so you might as well just abolish them.