Stem cell research brings more harm than good, for two big reasons: first, because it's immoral and that's a harm, and second, I think that stem cell research results in the politicization of science, and that's very bad.
So, let's first talk about why stem cell research is immoral.
Embryos have a whole lot of like human like qualities to them, embryos are still people, they're just at a younger stage of development.
So, when we're talking about something like infanticide, which is obviously illegal, what's like the meaningful distinction here?
They're both out of the body, there's only like a few months difference often times between these people, like a few months is the blink of an eye in the perspective of human life.
There's no real, like, tangible scientific actual, like, there's no like scientific definition for life.
It's a value based one.
So, when you're coming up with like a value based definition of life, you probably should be more deferential to preserving life, because life is like incredibly important, and it's incredibly valuable.
So, embryos are undeniably human life, it's just a matter of how much we want to value that human life, to what degree of rights should we give to these human lives, and you know what?
Just because they're younger, just because they're not like out of a womb yet, or something like that, even though they've like, been removed from one, just because they haven't developed for a few more months, doesn't mean that this isn't still a living being, that we're making decisions for on its behalf, without its consent, conducting scientific testing of all kinds, things that I just think are inherently immoral.
But, the next thing I want to talk about is about the politicization of science, and why this is bad.
So, even if it's all even if everything I said is nonsense, like, millions of people believe that stem cell research is immoral.
So, what this does is this politicizes science.
It means that, it's more likely that similar kinds of research are going to get less likely to get funding.
So, what's in it, like, what does this what does this principle look like?
If people think abortion is immoral, they're going to defund planned parenthood, and that's going to hurt every other thing that planned parenthood does, like provide like contraceptive access, or like educational resources, or or any other kind of basic healthcare things that planned parenthood provides.
This is similar for things like stem cell research.
People will be more likely to just defund institutions that do stem cell research, and that's going to hurt everything else they do you, funding can become a much more unstable, people start to question the credibility of the science, the credibility of the result itself, because they view it through a political lens.
So, all of these things lead to a whole lot worse outcomes.
Those certainly aren't things that you want, and that's very very bad.
So, for all those reasons, embryonic stem cell research brings more harm than good.