Teacher tenure reform will not bring more good than harm and I think that the reason for this is because teachers are uniquely requiring of these kinds of protections and at the way in which works in the status quo is uniquely important for teachers eventhough it may not seem as much in other instances.
Why do I think that this is true?
Because I think that in a lot of contexts, teachers are oftentimes caught in the cross-hairs in a volatile society as far as public education is concerned.
Public education is often the first areas to see cuts, teacher salaries are oftentimes some of the first areas to see cuts, teachers are often times some of the first groups in public employees to try to get fired if you want to try to make space or save money.
And the reason for this is because there's often times a widespread there's like there's widespread lie that public spending is often done inefficiently and in poor ways that would be better if maybe you outsource to charter schools or things like that.
So I think that this is actually very important because I think that when you have tenure and when the hire when the firing process becomes more difficult, these are actually the kinds of firing the kinds of cuts that you're less likely to see because you have more legit protections that are in place to actually go against these harms.
I think that this is very likely to be true because if a teacher just isn't performing well, recognize that it's not like it's impossible to fire a teacher when they're on tenure.
If people aren't actually learning in the class, this is generally showed by test taking and things like that, people will figure that out and they will say that you're not doing your job and there's generally a financial interest for schools and making sure that teachers do their jobs and generally there mm schools public schools are oftentimes not like moral actors who care about the education their people.
So they're not just going to let teachers just do whatever they want, that seems rather foolish.
An additional reason why I think that it's uniquely important to have teacher tenure protecting them is that it in a lot of ways preserves teachers rights to strike in a lot of ways because teachers are oftentimes requiring to unionize in a similar way to protect their rights and things like that and I think that that's another way in which teachers could get more subtly fired.
Obviously it would be illegal to directly site that is the reason but usually you can try to usually you can try like make up excuses or things like that and I think that this would therefore be like a good way in which to protect that.
The next the the final reason that I want to talk about is about the necessity of actually attracting qualified people to the field and this is something that's very important to do because usually pay is already low enough as it is for a whole lot of public education teachers but they're uniquely highly qualified in a lot of ways.
You have to have a college degree, even if eventhough you're not getting paid all that much, and sometimes it's even expected at certain schools or for certain jobs that you have a specialization in the certain field, that you maybe even have a higher level education degree or some other kind of more intensive training.
So this is important because you need to attract people into a specialized field when they have low income.
So a good way to get around that is by providing a higher degree of job security and even if it may not seem like advisable to add job security because like worse-off people could be could end up coming in, the fact that maybe some, even if that's not true, like some worse-off teachers would get hired.
This is still ultimately not as bad because the counter factual would be losing a whole lot more good teachers, losing a whole lot more like heavily qualified teachers when they're not now going to come into that field because of job security.
And I think this is very important because without having like qualified teachers, good teachers, you're not going to actually be able to teach people all that well.
You're going to have a really big hole in your public education system.
So for those reasons, you should leave tenure as is.