We should keep free newspapers for two big reasons: first because I think that they are just simply of at least some use to some people, and secondarily I think that banning them has incredibly significant freedom of speech and freedom of expression problems.
So first let's talk about use and why this is important.
Keep in mind that it's not like you're talking about things that are just entirely wasteful, things that are just simply bits of garbage that are going to sit on the floors of subways.
And it's important note this because when you're talking about people who pay the money for ads, people who pay for these things in the first place, we're not talking about irrational economic actors.
In fact we're talking about quite rational economic actors.
So, people wouldn't be spending the money on producing these contents or putting advertisements in these papers if there wasn't at least some evidence, some research or something that backs up this truth.
And that truth is that people do read these newspapers.
So that's important because now that were operating under that assumption, it's important to note that people may not be able to get news or content from other sources necessarily.
It's possible like they don't have the money to afford newspapers, or maybe it could just be like a matter of convenience where people see it sitting around, they say: " I'll give it a look " or something like that.
So I think that this is a problem because it seems like it's like a clearly not very problematic economic action that brings at least some value and some use to people, that they're just trying to have some kind of government regulation of, which I think is rather ridiculous.
But the flip side of this is that I also think that there is a rather significant freedom of speech and freedom of expression problems with this.
And I think that this is true because they're essentially just trying to get rid of an entire medium of like putting your message across or things like that.
Like the mere fact that like there may happen to be waste or whatever, or that there may happen to be problems associated with this, like if this was a paid newspaper, obviously it would be absolutely ridiculous to try to say that you would absolutely ban it.
And I think the fact that this is a free service does not make like the rights infringement any less powerful or any less important.
So when the people who are publishing this are publishing it, they're publishing news, they're publishing their opinions maybe, or anything like that.
They certainly have a right to do so.
They certainly have a right to express themselves in these ways.
There's been a ton of like supreme court rulings and a ton of just, in america obviously, that show that you're allowed to like distribute things like pamphlets, to promote like say religions for example.
And I think if anything, this is far less innocuous.
This is maybe not necessarily like even religiously motivated, this is just trying to give people a little bit of information and I don't really see any big problems with that.
So for all those reasons very proud to oppose.