We should ban abortion because ultimately it is immoral.
It is immoral in the fact that we need to make sure that we value life and the potential for a human life as an incredibly valuable idea and secondarily, because when you're making moral decisions, you should look to probability in cases of probability and uncertainty, you should defer to the least possible harmful alternatives.
So in the case of abortion, you should defer to making choices that aren't potentially harmful to a human life.
So, before we get into the meat of this argument though, there are a couple of situations in which it's very clear to make sure where I don't foresee this ban applying.
I do not foresee this ban applying to cases where an abortion is necessary to save the life of a mother or it is otherwise necessary for the health of the mother.
I also do not foresee this ban enacting it for some reason the child's health would be at risk and this would be a better solution.
I also further do not see in cases of rape, for example, abortion should also be allowed in those circumstances, other extenuating circumstances like that.
Additionally, we also think that it's important to defend a world in which contraceptive access condom access and sexual education access are much more widespread, better funded and better accessible because ultimately, these are a lot of the lack of like education on that front or the lack of access to contraceptives for a lot of people are what make, in many cases, abortions necessary in the first place.
So, now that that is established, let's get into why given those circumstances, abortion is immoral.
So, it's quite obvious that there is nothing more important than human life.
Every good thing that you have ever experienced, are experiencing, or will experienced is possible because of this.
In a way, that is why we look at murder as the worse crime of all crime.
Because murder is essentially the destruction of your own universe from an individualist prospective.
When you are murdered, everything that you can experience is dead, there's nothing left for you.
So, given this, there should be an incredibly high bar towards allowing this to happen.
And we think that given that there's a lot of circumstances where and given that there is otherwise abortion is a choice, if you take out circumstances where the life of the mother is at risk or where rape was taken place or where you didn't have the financial access to contraceptives or condoms or things like that, ultimately therefore, abortion is just a choice.
And therefore, since it is a choice, it should be something that can be regulated and regulated in this way, because you're essentially balancing the fact that having a child could be something that maybe you don't want to do or you don't feel ready to do.
However, even if those are very legitimate concerns, they can't balance against the fact that you're essentially making it so that an entire human life cannot be experience, something that is the ultimate moral harm that outweighs that.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about probability and uncertainty.
So this is very important because one standard that's often discussed when it comes to abortions is the idea of viability.
And when you're talking about viability, this is in many ways a moving target.
People don't exactly know when viability does exist, and it's also an ever like increasing range.
This also presents a problem because where therefore when you should defer against like viability or you don't know exactly what, because it's difficult to like get comprehensive medical understandings of like what a fetus can actually experience as far as like pain or cognition, we would argue that when you're doing this you should defer towards minimizing the possible harms.
Because the harms that can be experienced from this are quite great, and therefore you should defer against these moral farms.
So, for all of those reasons, think it's very clear that you should ban abortions.