We should not subsidize public transportation.
I wanna be very clear about what this looks like.
This doesn't mean that, in at least our opinion, that we should get rid of public transportation altogether, we're merely saying the government shouldn't have control over it, the government shouldn't subsidize it, we should allow private industries to develop it, maybe have some like regulation over it but as far as the money and fund raising and like cost, benefits and profits are concerned, that should be done in the private level.
Let's talk about why.
So first and foremost let's lay down some facts on the ground.
The current system that we have isn't working.
Public transportation in the united states is garbage.
Is absolute garbage.
, it's incredibly unreliable, it's incredibly uneffective, it breaks down frequently, it doesn't actually like it's like infrequent and it's also expensive anyways.
All of these things are absolutely bad, it's old it's outdated, there's just like endless complaints with public transportation in america.
The status quo is clearly broken.
So, why would privatization of public transportation be a whole lot better?
First and foremost because like private like corporations have just like more money sitting around for a lot of upfront investments on these kinds of things.
They have less like demands for their money.
Governments have a lot of things they have to do with their money.
They spend it on security, they have to spend money on like healthcare for like poor people, they have to spend money on like education for like public education like like there is a whole lot of things that governments have to spend money on.
So, it's better in which you like you minimize the constraints and like the like the stresses that you put on a government budget because private corporations have a lot of this money sitting around.
Next, corporations are a-political actors, so they don't have to worry about like a a congressional trial every time: " oh !
This is like nationalistic government spending.
Wasteful government spending. "
Things like that.
Like, when it's a-political in nature, the spending is much more stable, it's easier to fundraise, it's easier to get more money for projects and things like that.
So you're going to get more money going into these project.
And I think finally the profit motivation for these things makes sure that these public transportation projects are actually done in a sustainable way.
That's important because that sustainability element implies and the profit element means that they have to make sure that a lot of people are going to use the public transportation and in order to ensure usage, they have to make sure that the quality is better than it is right now.
They would have to make sure that it's more effective, it's it spread out over a wider area, it's faster, it's more reliable, it can do it all all of these things are gonna be better.
And all of those things have like pretty good associated side benefits too.
These things are going to be better for the environment therefore and all those things are going to be better for traffic therefore.
So, all those things are very clear and direct benefits from privatization of public transportation schemes.
I think that like the one conceivable harm that you can come up with this is for is that like people may be unwilling to do this or it could cost too much money as far as tolls are concerned.
So, first and foremost I think that like oftentimes, public transportation, people would be willing to pay a little bit more for public transportation if it was actually effective and actually reliable.
, the reason why people get annoyed is because public education often acts as a supplement to existing expensive modes of transportation like owning a car or things like that.
But if public transportation could be like a true reliable replacement, it would be something that I think a whole lot of people would actually like appreciate and things like that.
So for all those reasons, very proud to oppose.