We should subsidize higher education for two big reasons.
First, we should subsidize it because it's very good for the economy overall and secondarily, we should subsidize it because, on the more individual level, it's also obviously economically good, but it's also very important for social mobility and individual empowerment.
So, let's talk about what we mean by subsidizing higher education.
Obviously, subsidizing higher education does not necessarily mean entirely free education.
However, obviously, we are going to defend a world in which we substantially increase public subsidies for higher education, compared to the status quo.
We also don't think that this necessarily has to be available to everyone.
We think that we're we're perfectly comfortable in giving out greater subsidies in the forms of greater need-based aid, rather than just more general lowering of prices of education, and also increasing the extent and availability of public loans for education.
Oftentimes in the status quo, public loans for higher education have much more generous terms of repayment and much more generous interest rates than private loans do, and but they're oftentimes not available to give as much money which fully covers the cost of public education.
So that's another thing which we want to correct for.
So, why is subsidizing higher education good for the economy?
When you exist in a highly developed country, you predominately are going to see your economy be a service sector based economy or a more technologically focused based economy.
And this creates a problem because it means that there's going to be a lack of a comparative lack of cheaper labor-based jobs or cheaper manufacturing-based jobs.
This means that oftentimes the economy necessarily requires that most people have a higher degree of education, a higher extent of education for working in just like higher quality jobs.
So this means that a necessary condition of your employment is oftentimes going to be getting a college education.
And in the same way in which the reason why we fund low primary and secondary school is because those are necessary parts of your employment in a lot of cases.
This is very similar for higher education so that makes sense too.
So, we obviously don't want a whole bunch of people unemployed, because a whole bunch of people unemployed is lost productivity, and it's also just a drain on resources which isn't very good either.
But additionally, this is also important because there's going to be when you don't have as much money that you're making, you're also just going to have less money that you're going to be able to pay for things.
So, when you have a higher paying job work or if you're more educated, you're gonna make more money, and that means you're going to be able to consume more, which is also good for the economy.
Additionally, and this also ties in to the feasibility point, we think that this is going to be a long-term investment that is going to pay off.
And it's going to pay off because more and more people are going to once they're like better educated are they're able to work better jobs, they're able to innovate more, this is going to be better for the economy so this is going to cover the costs of the subsidizing more.
But we additionally, in the short term, think that there is certainly available money for this.
Maybe just spend less on the military and more on education and helping people.
That sounds pretty good to me.
So, the next thing that I want to talk about is about individual empowerment of people.
And on the individual level, it is still often too difficult and too inaccessible to afford a college education.
And this is particularly true given that college education around the world, but particularly in america, sees its expenses rising rapidly which prices out a whole lot of people, even people in the middle class.
And this creates a big problem because it means that you're oftentimes, if you're not able to even afford college, you're locked into essentially the cycle of poverty, or you're not going to be able to have as engaging discussions or you're not gonna be able to have as like engaging an educated population as well, which means you're also more likely to have foolish political decisions like the election of donald trump, or denying climate change, or things like that.
So it's very important on the individual level as well to make sure that people can go to college, to make sure that they're productive intelligent and beneficial citizens and so that they can be empowered to break out of the cycle of poverty.
So for all of those reasons, we definitely think that you should subsidize higher education.