We should keep racial profiling, because ultimately, there are limited resources for very real threats, and you have to find a way to a reasonably act, in order to make sure protect people, and I think that racial profiling is a reasonable way to do that, as long as you make sure you do it responsibly.
So, let's start by talking about the necessity of these kinds of actions, because when you're talking about racial profiling, you're talking about it existing in lack of some other kind in lieu of some other kind of security check.
So, if maybe you're not profiling people, you're going to be performing either no checks, or like no investigations or inquiries on certain people, or like checks on everybody, amm and obviously this isn't, this is ridiculous.
So, you have to do it in some kind of way, and the reason for this is because of like limited bodies to conduct these things, and limited resources to arm like financial resources to hire people, or to check everybody.
So, it's important that you're doing this in some way, and it's important to make sure that , so you can't do it you have to do it one way or the other, and additionally, it's important to note that these are really major threats that we're talking about.
There is oftentimes very real terrorist attack threats that are happening, you go to a lot of places in europe, and public squares get bombed, now our public areas, there could be threats, there could be mass shootings in places like the united states, like jewish like jewish areas throughout europe are almost at constantly at risk of possible violence, and it's important to note that these are very real threat, so you have to do something about it, and you have to take security measures, or.
And, that's important to note, because a lot of these things oftentimes do you have some kind of racial overtones in them.
Like if you're talking about investigating maybe you're trying to protect people at like a black church, or something like that, you may want to, if you're a police officer providing security, you may want to racially profile possibly whites, white people for white supremacy in the same way, because they're more likely to cause threats, in the same way that sometimes if you're like talking about targets to jewish, like synagogues, or jewish schools and towards france, then you're much more likely talking about the fact that a muslim person is going to perpetrate that.
These are simply the realities that we live in, and it's important to recognize those problems, so you can do something about those problems.
And therefore, that brings us to the final thing I want to talk about, which is there's no inherent problem to profiling.
When we're talking about profiling, we're talking about maybe stopping someone, checking checking out on them, making sure that they passed background checks, making sure they're not wanted for any reason, things like that.
These things are a hassle, obviously, these things are unfortunate, but they're not a major impositions on people.
As long as, people who are conducting checks aren't being disrespectful, they're not being violent, and they're not harassing anyone, as long as those things aren't happening, then we don't actually think we have a problem here.
I look at racial profiling as a way of making sure that you can maintain security, do it in an efficient way, in an effective way, given that you have limited resources to actually conduct your vision of how to keep people safe.
And it is important that we keep people safe, so we have to do it in some way, this is the best way to do it.
So for all those reasons we're very proud to oppose.