We should protect the right to internet access because internet access is incredibly important in our digital age to almost all aspects of life, and making sure that people can live like an enjoyable and fulfilling life.
So let's start by talking about the more conventional rights that the internet is necessary to access.
Nowadays the vast majority of speech is on the internet.
If you want to come up with the best way to organize individuals, the best way to convey a message, or the best way to maybe not convey anything at all but to learn about other perspectives, to learn about other people's messages, then the best way that this happens nowadays is on the internet, and that's important.
If you look at like old like US supreme court cases and things like that about the value of freedom of speech, you hear a lot of rhetoric about the marketplace of ideas and about how freedom of speech has to be protected so that way ideas can be exchanged in the best ones can be implemented.
And the internet is in a lot of ways the actual personification of this marketplace of ideas.
Because the internet is is the like best forum in which you can actually have like exchange of ideas.
Across all kinds of times nationalities , across like any kind of like medium essentially can be bridged by the internet.
So anyone can be connected with anyone.
So obviously internet access is important to make sure that you can get information and and and send out information.
But beyond the obvious like speech consequences and information availability consequences, which are major, there's a whole lot of other reasons why the internet is important as well.
Namely it's just important to make sure that you can access a lot of things on the day to day life.
Like job postings are on internet nowadays and they're oftentimes necessary for work, internet is oftentimes necessary for education, if you're like a kid in school but you don't have internet access but your homework assignments are posted online, or textbooks are cheaper online and things like that so you wanna use that, like there's all kinds of ways in which it could be applicable there.
If you want to get directions to some place the internet gives you a much more sure find way of doing so, if you need to look up the bus schedule, basically anything that you can think of that makes your life easier, the internet can make your life easier.
So it's obviously very important to people to have internet access for basically any reason.
And it's also important because the internet isn't inherently a cheap thing if we don't ensure access to it.
Right now the internet is mostly monopolized by a couple of , or at least in america, it's monopolized by a couple of telecommunications corporations and they can charge basically whatever they want.
Like for example, the place that I live in boston, in roxbury, only has one internet provider, and that is comcast.
There's no competition it's a it's an artificial monopoly.
So internet prices can be pretty expensive.
They can price a lot of people out and a lot of people are probably not able to afford that and therefore they don't have internet access.
If you have a right to the internet, a lot of these things may get are likely to go away.
You can better regulate the internet because it's announced as a recognized right to you, you could have more sensible public policy, you can do all kinds of things that make it so that internet is more widely facilitated amongst the population, which I think would be a whole lot better.
So for all those reasons, you should protect the right to internet access.