We believe that a policy or an idea of the right to self-defense being absolute is absolutely a horrible idea.
We on opp prefer a world in which one or the of the two obligations is instead impose.
One: one in which there is a duty to flee or a duty to de-escalate in a situation in which there is a threat or secondarily, a duty to if it is not possible to flee, a duty to not try to kill, a duty to rather try to incapacitate somebody.
So two reasons for this: the fact that this is an absolute defense edict what is would be very prone to abuse and secondarily, that there is an affirmative right to life and due process for people whose lives would be ended by such a practice.
So first let's talk about abuse.
There's two reasons under this.
The first of which is that people are incredibly bad.
Reason why it would be abused is that people are incredibly bad at perceiving threats and the reason for this is because fear clouds a rational judgment.
So obviously it would be not great if there is some kind of a threat and people did not need to kill somebody, it's probably not controversial that it would be preferable that people wouldn't take such an action that would kill somebody.
It would be preferable if they were if they called the authorities or if they tried to flee or if they did something else instead.
The problem is that when you're not obviously since you're probably just talking about an average person, not anyone trained especially to deal with these kinds of things, a: fear clouds your judgement so you're more likely to be prone to a violent reaction, even if it's not one that is necessary.
So what this does is this results in needless death.
Secondarily, we think that there's a racial undertone that's often going to happen to this, and the reason for this is because oftentimes like especially in a society like america, blackness is often associated with danger or violence, or in some other parts of the world in context, muslims are associated with like violence and conflict as well.
So I think that the problem is that people are more inculcated to believe such norms so people are more likely to perceive threats from these groups.
This is how you get situations like unarmed black men in america being shot or things like the george zimmerman case where it's a perceived act of self-defense, when in reality it's actually an aggressive action.
And I think that when you have an absolute right to self-defense, especially the way in which it's often practically fulfilled in a legal court system, what it does is it results in very clear egregious abuses like this.
And I think that these such abuses, since they're essentially resulting in either innocent lives being dead or at the very least, needless lives being lost.
These are certainly more important than the counterfactual but additionally, we also think that even people who are possibly committing crimes or threatening your life, that these people still have a right to life in the same way that you have a right to life in that in order for any kind of punishment to be imposed on them, any kind of like suffering on them, there's a certain process that must be fulfilled.
And I think that this is something that is very important to talk about here because I think that an absolute right to self-defense, in which you can just kill someone if they do something to you, this is very clearly essentially just vigilante justice.
You just doing what you want in absence of the state.
And I think that there's a big problem here because even if somebody is physically like imminently about to harm you, that does not necessarily make them guilty because guilty is a process, it's a legal process.
That's how you actually get a just outcome.
It's a process that is achieved by a a certain set of due processes via the ability for people to plead their case, by the ability for them to have a defense and certain rights being imposed on them.
And even if that's not true, the punishment that has to be imposed on someone has to be proportionate in order for it to be just.
You probably wouldn't want to execute somebody if they stole a loaf of bread.
The problem with this is that an absolute right to self-defense overrides the principle of proportionality as well as the principles of due process and justice.
So any act of self-defense that would be absolute and not therefore, a duty to try to de-escalate or flee, is therefore illegitimate and we should not have such of such a right.
So for those reasons, proud to oppose.