Banning alcoholic beverages is a horrible and ridiculous idea.
Work I'm going to present two arguments today.
First that people have a right to consume alcohol, that this is a right that people have and secondarily that a ban of alcohol, even if people maybe shouldn't be drinking alcohol or it's not the best thing too bad, a ban on alcohol is going to have the opposite of any intended effect that it could have.
So let's start by talking about why we think that people have a right to consume alcohol.
One of the most basic underpinnings of any kind of liberal democracy a place where people's freedoms and rights are respected is the right of choice.
Especially when this choice revolves around lifestyle choices that only affect you personally.
Obviously you have the right to choose what kind of food you want to eat if you feel like drinking lemonade or a diet coke or if you feel like wearing a certain kind of clothes these are basic ways in which you should choose to live your life and just because something is a psychoactive substance or substance that alters your mind doesn't actually mean that this should change.
In fact I think if anything this should create a more powerful protection.
The fact that alcohol is a mind altering substance, the fact that it could maybe reduce your levels of stress, the fact that it could act as a social lubricant, the fact that you may just like feel like greater feeling of pleasure after drinking alcohol, these are all like very personal effects.
These are all things are very personal on the individual level and these are mental mental functions that the government should certainly not regulate over because the government should not have the authority to regulate your own mental functions.
This is particularly true given that the harms that are specific to alcohol are by large specific to yourself.
The harms of like over use can be specific to a whole lot of things.
The harm of drinking you can obviously if you drink if you like drink too much of like soda you can get fat or you get diabetes if you eat too much mcdonald's you can get you can get heart you can be more likely to have heart problems or other kinds of things.
There's all kinds of decisions.
So I think it is an important choice that we let people make on a regular basis because they're balancing short term usage pleasure that can come from that with the possibility, if they maybe use it unwisely long term harms like maybe liver damage or things like that but that's certainly a choice that people have every right to make for themselves in the same way in which they have the right to sacrifice possibly getting in the way they have the right to sacrifice possibly their like heart health if they eat more mcdonald's.
So the only things that they really have on their side is that there is third party harms but luckily there's quite a good solution to the third party harms that come with drinking.
Things like maybe like public drunkenness, disorderly conduct, drinking driving under the influence or like more violence as a result of alcohol.
Very easy solution: make those things illegal.
Make driving under the influence illegal and heavily enforce that.
Make public drunkenness illegal and heavily enforce that.
Those are perfectly reasonable things to ban because those are actual actions that harm other people.
You can obviously ban an action that has some kind of adverse impact on society but when the only impact is a personal choice on themselves that right certainly doesn't extend and it's very important to separate the two.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is why this isn't going to have the impact they want to.
So obviously the united states has already tried prohibition and it utterly failed.
And the reason that this is true is obvious.
Because banning something doesn't mean that people don't use it if there's a widespread cultural acceptance of it and the fact that people enjoy it.
You can look at marijuana as an example.
Marijuana's been illegal for a long time.
That doesn't stop from like tens of millions of people from using marijuana every year.
There's a lot of places where it like a lot of so there's no real like efficacy there.
The only impact this is going to have is that people who drank too much are now just going to be afraid to get help like go to an emergency room because they're afraid that they're breaking the law or there's going to be more criminal activities as a result of having to illegally produce and distribute alcohol because there's still going to be a demand for it.
And people who may have alcoholism, which is a very real disease, people who have alcoholism are going to be less likely to try to seek out help for that because they're going to be worried about possibly being put in prison because of that.
This isn't actually going to help save any lives.
This is only to make all these problems worse.
People are going to use it anyway and people have a right to use it anyway.
So for those reasons we should not ban alcohol.