We should ban homeopathy, because it at the end of the day just hurts people, it hurts people because it discourages real treatment, and it discourages access, or seeking out real treatment in place of fake treatment.
So, obviously the government should ban them on those grounds.
So, let's talk about that: what is a good standard?
What should the government be thinking about when it decides if it wants to ban something?
There's three things that come to mind for me: first, does this hurt people?
Second, are there any benefits that could possibly counterbalance the fact that this hurts people?
And third, even if it hurts people, or doesn't help people all that much, is this a choice that people can make accurately and consent into, is there coercion involved, things like that.
Am homeopathy has problems with all three of these rather basic paradigms.
So, let's go into that a little bit more.
So first, as far as the harms are concerned, homeopathy obviously has no real scientific value, but it has harms, in that it could possibly for example, the treatments they are getting themselves can be harmful, you can get more sick as a result of the homeopathic treatment, or at the very least, the homeopathic treatment is happening in absence of scientifically proven treatment, or am actually well tested treatment.
So, even if the homeopathy itself doesn't make you less healthy, which it might, it certainly isn't going to make you more healthy, which is net loss if you are sick, because if you're unhealthy that means you're just going to be staying unhealthy, and that's obviously a very big harm.
So homeopathy is bad for that.
Am, but, additionally there's no benefits to counterbalance this.
Maybe if homeopathy was proven to work for some people, am in of itself, that would be worth it, but it's not.
There's been extensive scientific testing on this, and there's no real proof that homeopathy actually helps people, any more than a placebo effect otherwise would.
So, there's no real reason why we should accept the fact that this does harm people, and we discourage people from getting real treatment.
But, the final part about this is about can people make this choice, and I think that this is uniquely bad, because if this is true, then you're essentially seeing people getting coerced into picking a treatment that, we know doesn't work, am and why?
And the reason for this is they think because it's cheaper, fake medicine is usually cheaper than real medicine, real medicine costs money to produce, it costs more money to research and develop, it has to go through more extensive testing, there's reasons why medical care is oftentimes expensive.
So people may feel, especially if you're financially disadvantaged, you may see this as a viable treatment option, something that could fit your financial needs more so.
But that's bad, because I think that the focus should be on enabling access for people for real treatment, it to be enabling access to real treatment, rather than am making it so, that people feel pressured into picking fake treatment, ultimately getting sick and dying anyway.
Obviously that's very bad.
But don't think that that's obviously something that this would be first choice, I think most people's first choice would be the more accepted in sound medicine, because people want to be healthy, people are going to want to pick those things.
Am but, the final thing is that, people also may be coerced into picking this, because it may be easier, oftentimes undergoing, whether it's taking possible cocktails of drugs, that could impact your mind in a different ways, or impact your mood, impact your health, or eating habits, am possibly having to undergo something like like chemotherapy can lead to harmful side effects, amm oftentimes drugs can't get mixed and mashed together very well, there's all kinds of things that can happen.
There's all kinds of reasons why homeopathic treatment may strike someone as an easier route to go under, and that's something that people want to believe, on a very basic level, they want to believe that it's going to work, but belief in something working doesn't mean that it's actually going to work, in the same way that believing global warming is a myth doesn't mean that everyone isn't going to be fucked in a few years.
So it's very important to recognize this, because this is a perfect scenario for which you should ban something.
Homeopathy only hurt people, it doesn't help anyone, and people can't even reasonably pick if this is right for them, because they're probably going to be pressured or coerced into take taking this, because they feel that this is an easier way out of a big problem for them, or even more perniciously, they feel that they can't afford, there's no real affordable option for alternatives, so they see this as cheaper.
That's not very good, you need to have better options for people, and in light of that you should ban homeopathy