No we absolutely should not further exploit conventional unconventional oils, and the reason for this is because it will be both directly and indirectly catastrophic for the environment and humanity as a whole.
So first, let's talk about the direct harms to the environment because when you actually look at the process of unconventional oil extractions, the process of fracking and extracting oil from like shales and sands and things like that, this requires the injection of chemicals into the earth's surface itself and this is obviously very bad.
There's been studies that have shown that places that honestly never get earthquakes before like oklahoma, north dakota have been getting earthquake starting to get earthquakes in record numbers.
There's oftentimes like sinkholes and environmental damage because of the drainage of things or the rejection of surfaces and things like that and obviously those things hurt people, but additionally the chemicals themselves often also result in a a chemical run-off.
And the reason for this is because you can't just inject chemicals into the ground and expect them to not go anywhere.
Things like they run-off, they seep into the earth's soil the especially when it rains it like also leads to more run-off.
These things often end up in like water supplies therefore because of that and this can create a big problem obviously.
People can have drinking their own drinking water be contaminated but if that's not the case, also certainly plants and animals that are in the area will absorb these chemicals most likely and that creates a problem because when humans consume that they'll therefore also get these chemicals as far as inhalation.
That's like it's the same principle as far as like you don't want to eat too much salmon because you could get high concentrations of higher concentrations of mercury as a result of that.
But in addition to the direct harms of fracking, there's also incredibly prominent indirect harms that come from fracking.
Namely that further dependence on oil and other non-renewable sources of energy like it very unclean sources of energy will only further lead to more global warming and climate change.
Why is this the case?
Because one of the biggest reasons why we have such a big problem of climate change is the use of oil a lot of like automobiles being used, a lot of like factories, and things like that that burn off that burn off like heat and oil or gas and coal and things like that.
We want to lesser our reliance on these and that's the best way to actually reduce our carbon footprint.
And this creates a bit of a problem because when you keep exploiting what you already have, you're essentially just conceding to being lazy and cheap and kind of stupid to be honest because you're not reinvesting in green tech and infastructure as you should be.
You're just relying on the things that you already have access to, and while this may make short-term economic sense because you don't have to pay the cost of investing in new infrastructure, in the long-term this is really really bad because even on a basic financial level but also just on a human life level climate change is just going to be a whole lot worse when certain parts of the world that are within like a like a couple of like dozen miles of the coast become uninhabitable which is where most of humanity lives.
When there's increasing like desertification, when a lot of crops are more like it's harder for crops to grow or they're more likely to get damaged because of extreme heat or there is more likely to be national disasters.
All of these things come with immense economic harms and immense human costs as well and all of these things are directly linked to climate change and global warming and are therefore directly linked to a continued use of renewable energies.
And this is just the most important thing that we need to make sure that we end.
So for all those reasons, we should not exploit the use of conventional unconventional oil.