We should abolish the united nations security council vetl veto power because at the end of the day it is one, anti-democratic and two, the it leads to a reality in which the UN cannot actually do anything and becomes largely ineffective.
So let's talk about these two things.
First, let's talk about how it makes the united nations more anti-democratic.
I think that there's a couple of broad reasons for this.
First and foremost, keep in mind that the vast majority of countries that are in the united nations are ultimately not able to, under this system, have actual voice in the matter.
And the reason for this is because no matter what the proposal is, whether it's on something like aid or a war, human rights issues that are very important and that people across the international community are affected by.
What happens is that when any individual country, whether it be the united states or france or china or who on whomever, they are able to essentially veto whatever the world will is.
And that's something that's incredibly problematic because it means that whatever their will is, it's ultimately not being followed even if most of the world thinks that something should happen.
So imagine what this reality looks like.
Imagine a reality in which like you you have a domestic government in which whether it's like the wealthiest people in society or the most influential or powerful people in society those people are just able to veto whatever the democratic will is.
You would probably consider that to be a rather outrageous and unjust system.
And when you think about it the united nations security council veto power system is not all that much different.
What it essentially does is it gives a group of five nations disproportionate power over the rest of the world, which is definitely not something that we should do if we want to support democratic norms or support democracy on a principled level.
But I also think that it's bad the veto is bad because it results in gutting of the UN's efficacy.
So how does it do that?
Keep in mind that the five nations are by and large fairly different nations.
You have them in different parts of the world, they have different systems of government, they have a lot of differences in terms of what their values are.
So this is important because what this results in is if these countries have veto power when issues get to the table ultimately just a veto is likely to happen because they can't really agree on anything.
So the result is that nothing gets done.
So when nothing gets done the result is that people it creates the reality that the UN can't do anything so the many issues where the UN could be doing things, whether it's like on matters of human rights violations or peacekeepers in war zones and things like that, it becomes much more difficult for the UN to actually do things that help people's lives and for the UN to actually be a force for good.
But additionally it also results in a lot of people thinking that the UN cannot actually get anything done so it creates a perception that the UN is just this nonsense body that can't actually do anything.
And it creates this image of the united nations that people are ultimately not very fond of, which in turn reduces confidence in the united nations which ultimately means they are less likely to have an effective united nations.
So for those reasons you should abolish the veto power.