We should ban scientology because scientology is incredibly harmful to a lot of people in society certainly to a lot of its members and it also oftentimes engages in criminal conduct.
So let's start by talking about some of the obvious criminal wrongdoings that the church of scientology has perpetrated.
And these things can range to things like tax fraud where it falsely can claim on filings about like certain religious activities or certain exempt activities when in reality oftentimes it's just creating like a commercial practice where the goal of the church is just to like make money off of its members and give profits to certain individuals in that church.
And in a lot of ways it's really more of like an actual business than a meaningful church or a meaningful spiritual center.
So that's certainly a really big problem and it can ultimately end up like defrauding the government of money.
You've additionally seen problems like like criminal conspiracies that the church of scientology has committed where like like seizing unfavorable documents trying to suppress them things like that which have been resulted in like court decisions condemning the church of scientology for engaging in these kinds of actions.
Moreover you also see incredibly problematic practices that the church of scientology engages with perspective members whether it's like stalking people to recruit them to trying to coerce or pressure people to join the church even if they're not interested.
All things that like really just constitute harassment and and a lot of ways which is not something that we should be allowing in our society to exist.
Because it's really just an illegitimate way to run a church certainly to run any kind of like organization but certainly to run a religious organization.
Moreover there's also been a lot of like widespread like reporting on the fact that people aren't oftentimes able to leave the church of scientology that they get like pressure to stay they get pressured to like keep paying spending time with like members spending money with members and membership and things like that in that people can essentially get like almost like imprisoned in some ways within the church even if they willingly joined it at some point it can become incredibly coercive and difficult to leave which presents even more problems with the church's practices.
Moreover there's also a lot of widespread recognition that they target vulnerable people people with like poor mental health people who are more like insecure people who are like trying to like look for something in such a way in which that vulnerable people are getting caught up in this and it's something that's really harmful and we need to make sure that we're doing more to stop.
And the best way that we can stop this since you can't really effectively regulate this away since the rod goes so deep is you just have to ban the church of scientology.
So for all those reasons we should do just that.