We should not legalize sex selection because sex selections legitimizes the worst kinds of sexism and misogyny in a society, and we also think that by banning sex-selection abortions, you're going to help on the path for more gender equality and empowering women in general.
So let's start by talking about why sex selection is so problematic.
It's important to recognize that sex-selection abortions almost exclusively target women.
They target women because they are perceived as being less financially valuable, they're perceived as being less valuable as human beings culturally valuable, they're seen as more of a drag or maybe they're just not wanted.
These are obviously horrible ideals, ideals that we shouldn't allow to happen.
So, what is important to make sure that we focus on this debate is how can we change that?
Now can we just accept that this is the way cultures are, this is the way some realities are, but how can we actually take positive steps toward making it so that people don't actually look at their at women this way?
So, the first thing that I think it's important to note is that banning something comes with incredible power.
When you ban something in society, you are casting the an ultimate moral condemnation on that.
When you think about the things that we do ban in society, there are things that are generally not very highly looked upon, where we ban things like murder, robbery, theft, all these kinds of things.
We ban them because they are we ban them because we recognize that these come with a very intrinsic harm to society, harms to other people, and there's something that we cannot tolerate.
We also think that the moral force of the law can also be very much a compelling force because even if people aren't necessarily going to change their minds, we also think that people are going to be likely to weigh against the like the costs against the benefits of the fact, especially if they're like afraid of the fact that they could get that doctors may not be like willing to perform these procedures, they may think that it could be unsafe to go to like an alternative source, they may be more willing to just have the baby and not worry about a sex selection.
So I think that, therefore, on those two levels, on the fact that you're more likely to change people's minds so you're not going to have to worry about this call in the first place and you're second, going to deter people from doing this, this is a direct way in which you get less sex-selection abortion, which is good for women's empowerment.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about why this is necessarily okay.
Because it is woefully insufficient to just say, " oh, culture overrides, oh, autonomy overrides ", but these aren't good enough reasons because what we're talking about is systemic sexism that needs to be combatted.
Obviously we wouldn't allow things like female genital mutilation to we shouldn't allow things like female genital mutilation to exist and be accepted.
Those are cultural practices in the same way that the sex-selective abortion or in the same way that preferences for a male child can be a cultural practice.
That doesn't mean that it's good and that doesn't mean that we should just auto-defer to that and be tolerant of that.
There are certain practices that are quite bad.
This is one of those things there need to be boundaries on autonomy, and we put those all the time and this is a fair set of circumstances to do that.
But additionally, I think that culture is also just a particularly dubious reason because it's assumed that people can't change their minds, or that this is just going to be the way things are.
Maybe there's going to be resistance, maybe people are going to get upset about that, but ultimately that's not really the way that social progress works.
Social progress oftentimes requires necessarily contending with this backlash, contending with this anger, in order to achieve a desired outcome, and this case that desired outcome is making sure that women don't have to be worried about that that women don't feel like the only reason that they exist was because of like like a sex-selection abortion or things like that.
So for all of those reasons, we definitely should keep we should ban sex-selection abortions.