We should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools because at the end of the day drugs and guns have no place in schools whatsoever.
There's no rational reason for them to be in schools and I don't really think that there's any actual real consequence of outright banning these things and having zero tolerance policies that are very strict.
But first I want to talk about possible misconceptions because keep in mind that mistakes are not necessarily things that we think should fall under a zero policy tolerance policy.
So for example, if somebody brings like some kind of toy to school and it gets mistaken for some kind of weapon or somebody brings oregano and it gets mistaken for marijuana or something like that.
These sound like things in which the school has a responsibility to actually make sure that it's ban is attacking the things that it should be banning and I think that mistakes are ultimately going to be proven as mistakes.
You're going to find out eventually when you confiscate the item if you get caught with it whether or not it's true or valid.
So I don't think that those things should be a part of the debate.
So what are the things that we're actually talking about?
We're talking about things that have a real danger to people: guns, drugs, things like that.
So I don't think that these things have any place in school.
I think that there's absolutely no reason whatsoever why someone should ever need to have drugs in school.
You don't just accidentally bring heroin or cocaine or marijuana to school.
You probably are doing that with a purpose and that purpose is likely either to distribute it or to use it, neither of which should be acceptable on school grounds.
School is supposed to be a place of learning and drugs even at their like least harmful level, even if like you want to have a debate about the degree to which they are harmful, at the very least you're probably not able to study or learn very well when you're on drugs.
So I really don't see why they have a place there but they're also probably very dangerous and generally shouldn't be there.
When we're talking about weapons, these are obviously things that you can't have on campus on at schools.
Especially in a society where there is a lot of gun violence and where there is a good deal of like threat that people may misuse their weapon and especially in a society where a lot of gun deaths are ultimately accidental in nature.
I think that even if like people don't have any kind of intent to do harm, even if people may be otherwise legally able to carry a firearm, I do not think that the school a school is a place where these weapons should be had.
Because keep in mind there's not really a whole lot of reason why you should have these otherwise.
You won't be needing it for sport when you're on school grounds and I don't think that as far as defense is concerned if you feel like you need some kind of weapon, whether it's a gun or a knife on a school campus, then the danger that you're feeling is much much greater than it should be for a child to deal with and they should be going to an authority or somebody who has a better capacity to actually deal with these things.
So I really don't see, since there's no argument for sport, there's no argument for self defense, any real reason why you should be able to have a weapon.
I don't see any reason why you would need one.
I don't see any reason why you can mistakenly bring one in most cases and I don't see why we should care if it's an accident or not given that these accidents are dangerous too.
And at the end of the day you need to have zero tolerance, you need to have this level of punishment, you need to have that level of deterrence to make sure that people aren't bringing guns into the classroom.
So for those reasons we should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.