The affordable care act brought more harm than good.
Because ultimately, it didn't go far enough, it didn't take advantage of the eh the unique political opportunity that it had, and it didn't impose single payer health care, which it could have, which would have been a whole lot better.
So, let's break all of this down, because I think that, it's important to talk about the passing of the affordable care act, and the affordable care act itself, necessarily comes at the expense of alternate plans, or alternative options, or it comes with a certain degree of political connotations.
So, I think that first and foremost, something that we've obviously seen, the passing of the affordable care act, brought a whole lot of anger, and a whole lot of backlash towards it, because of identifiable harms at the plans.
The facts that the average person's premiums were going up, and the perception, the stigma of entitlement, made it seem like it was just a doomed to fail plan.
But additionally, amm there's also aspects of incremental progress that, make it why you shouldn't push for more.
Given that, the democrats at this time had the control of the presidency, they had control of the senate, and they had control of the house, so they had control over everything.
So they could've impose almost anything they want, that's why they're able to get obamacare in the the affordable care act in the first place.
So, if you you can oftentimes see that when something new gets enacted, it's oftentimes very difficult to pull it back.
So, amm they could have put a better plan forth, and I think what a better plan would have looked like is the affordable care act, is is single payer, and I think that there is a couple of reasons for this: first and foremost, I think that it would just cost less money for the average person, which I think is very good.
I think that it would cost less money, because you would you would cut out a lot of things like advertising costs, and costs of competition that health eh health insurance companies have to have with other people, but also, you're going to just remove a need for profit altogether, because when you're talking about a health insurance industry, whenever it's a for profit industry, especially like a massive industry like an insurance company, they're going to want tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars in profits, and it's simply not feasible, for this kind of money, to not being spent on the welfare of people, the actual health that people are getting.
Given that, when we're talking about health care, we're talking about a basic right that I think the people should have, something that is important to people in the in the most basic ways, the ability to get up in the morning, and do your job, or to enjoy your life, to be healthy, that's just it's so basic, it's something that people need to have, a right to, and it needs to be affordable, and all of these things are going to be better.
So, there should be a public option, and I think that obama obama care necessarily comes at the political exclusion of other more radical plans.
So, for all of those reasons very proud to oppose.