We think the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were justified and they were justified for three main reasons.
One, that the japanese were ultimately instigators of the conflict in the first place.
Two, there were no reasonably a reasonable alternative courses of action.
And three, that ultimately this would achieve benefits in the long run by accomplishing future deterrence.
So, let's start with japanese instigation.
Obviously, the japanese initiated a war against the united states by attacking pearl harbor.
So, why is this important?
The reason is that the united states was now necessarily entered into a war against japan and it had to fight japan.
And this is important because when it chose to attack hiroshima and nagasaki, those targets were picked as ultimately more industrialized and productive cities.
So by attacking those cities, they ultimately eliminated their ability to eliminated their ability to have more productive power, which hurt japan's military capacity.
But it also hurt the morale of japan in a very unique way, which ultimately was more likely to contribute to a war in which america did not start in the first place, but was forced to confront otherwise.
But additionally, I don't ultimately think that you can even really assign moral harm here, because there are no real alternatives.
Why is this true?
Because recognize that an invasion would not only be costly, but would likely accomplish the exact same in terms of civilian casualties as as well.
So when you look at the cost that this would have on american lives, this is something that we simply can't understate.
The soldiers that would be dying, possibly in the tens of thousands, each individual one of them is an american life, someone who probably has a family back home, or at the very least a whole future of their life to live.
This is what america has an obligation to protect, and if they can make a decision that would save countless american lives, they should definitely do that, and they should especially do that if there's no even real guarantee that there's going to be a difference in civilian casualties.
This is true because if it weren't for the unique terrorizing nature of the nuclear bombs, it's possible that a prolonged military occupancy would have been necessary, and essentially a US conquest of the entire continent piece by piece.
That would have required fire bombings of cities, fire bombings of plants across the area of where workers were, there would have been widespread damage anyway.
These are all casualties that would have likely arisen anyway, there likely would have been rebellions and uprisings, all things that would have resulted in a whole lot of damage and harms as well.
But, we finally want to talk about the future deterrence effect that this has, because I think that this is incredibly important as well.
And I think that this is important because the use of nuclear weapons made it more likely that you're not going to see nuclear weapons used in the future.
And I think this is true because of the way human beings think, and the way human beings act.
They're visually they're visual thinkers and they when they see something that is visually powerful, something like a tragedy that fold before their eyes, or something that has tremendous human casualty, things like with the radiation and the likes of the bomb.
I think that what this ultimately accomplishes is a much more powerful aversion to that.
So this is why when you just hear statistics about tens of thousands of deaths in a place like syria, that's ultimately a lot less powerful than looking at actual pictures of the carnage that you see there.
You're because because what it does is it evokes a base human instinct a base human emotional connection.
So I think this is incredibly important, because obviously there was a whole lot of devastation and damage from the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki.
What I ultimately think this led to though, is more of a human aversion to nuclear of nuclear weapons, and I think this is one of the big reasons why we haven't seen anyone actually be willing to use a nuclear weapon.
So at the end of the day this could've actually saved a whole lot more lives and made the world a whole lot more stable in the long run.
So for all of those reasons, I think it's quite clear the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were justified.