We should ban organic food for a simple reason.
It is less safe than conventionally produced foods.
So in order to establish why this is true, when I first talk about how this about how organic food is because of the fact that it doesn't use industrial pesticides, and because of the fact that it lacks additives, it's going to make you more likely to be sick.
The reasons why this is true is for a few reasons.
First and foremost, the importance of pesticides.
Pesticides are incredibly important for controlling diseases, whether it's e coli or salmonella or other kinds of naturally food borne diseases.
This is the reason why you saw the recent disease outbreaks at chipotles across the united states of america that led to numerous health problems for people.
The reason this is true is because due to the lack of industrial strength pesticides, it's more likely that diseases are going to be able to be kept.
But furthermore, because of the variant methods it's also more likely that the diseases that the variant methods of manufacturing for these foods in a very growing methods for these foods, it's also more likely that these diseases are going to prop up in different parts of production facilities and are less likely going to be able to be controlled for.
But additionally we also think that the presence of additives in food is important to you because it reduces spoilage, and while spoilage is obviously important for making sure that food can be consumed for a longer period of time, spoilage is also important because spoiled food simply isn't safe to eat, and unsafe food to eat could be quite bad for people.
So the reason why we think that food safety is obviously incredibly important to consider as an issue is because we don't want people to be getting sick.
That obviously can lead to strain on public health resources or the individual health resources of people, it leads to less productivity in the workforce, and it's just something that it seems like the government should have an obligation to help people with.
So why do we think that therefore this risk of organic food being less safe is an unnecessary risk.
Because theoretically this risk could be outweighed or if it was shown that there were actually long term benefits of consuming organic food, long term benefits like you're less likely to get cancer maybe from these pesticides, you are less likely to get other kinds of long term illnesses that could come from using these manufactured goods.
So we actually don't think this is very likely though, because while there is rock solid evidence and there is truth to the fact that these pesticides make sure that the food is is more safe in that you're going to be getting less diseases, the science behind the benefits of organic food is quite flimsy.
There isn't really any clear scientific consensus that there's actually any benefits to organic food.
So there's no real point to deferring to that logic.
But even if you don't believe that, even if you do think that there is still benefits to organic food, we don't actually think that the average consumer is going to experience these benefits.
And the reason for that is because this is dependent on the way in which that food is actually produced, first of all at facilities.
And this is a problem, because oftentimes facilities will be using varied production means, there's not going to be a unified system like with industrialized farming that is going to ensure quality control for these foods.
So this means that you're not necessarily going to even get the greater nutritional values or health attractions, because you can't actually confirm that you're going to be getting the organic food that experiences these benefits, even if some organic food does.
But finally this is also dependent on health regulatory agencies.
And the problem with this is that health regulatory agencies are oftentimes able to operate outside of the public eye and outside of public scrutiny.
But the scrutiny that they do not operate away from though is the scrutiny of people, of lobbyists, and the scrutiny of the corporation that they're supposed to regulate.
Throughout the entire world, especially in developed countries, you see revolving doors of politics, you see people who are former members of the industries become regulators of industries.
This is a problem, because it means that it essentially creates a system in which people are misled to buy organic food under the assumption it is healthier for them, and that that in reality it is less safe for them and just cost more money.
And it is for those reasons we should ban organic food.