We should not ban hate sites because banning hate sites is, first of all an impossible thing to do that's only going to make the situation worse, and secondarily, in the world of like hate speech being harmful and the way in which it hurts people	, having like devoted websites where people can vent out their hatred is a pretty comparatively benign way to like marching in the streets or things like that.
So let's start by talking about why banning hate speech will be grossly ineffective and only make the problem worse.
Keep in mind that like wanting to ban hate sites isn't the same as being able to actually effectively eliminate them because the problem that we see is whenever sites, like for example reddit, try to crack down on hate speech you see the people who want to post hate speech will just go somewhere else.
They can go to say, 4chan and when 4chan becomes too mainstream they can go to 5chan and when that starts to get shut down they can go on to more untraceable areas like you can go on to the deep web or things like that.
Or you can more heavily focused on anonymizing your posts or having like untraceable trackers and things like that .
All of there's always going to be a way where you can use the internet and modern technologies to mask your identity and to mask the places where you congregate as a hate group as a whole.
This is simply just like a a a matter of fact in the current society that we live in with the technology that's available to us.
It basically like the war on drugs on steroids like how we can't really end the war on drugs cause there's always going to be more drugs drugs that pop up.
Really if you if you try to suppress things on the internet, you're basically just going to move them to a different place on the internet where it's going to be able to fester in a less regulatable area.
And I think that that makes it a whole lot worse because when you're shifting the public debate from areas that are more mainstream, like if racist posts are appearing on reddit where most people like a whole a whole lot of people use reddit, these debates are shifting from areas where there's going to be more mainstream anchors, where there's going to be more of a mainstream spotlight, they shift to other areas where there's going to be even less of a focus.
So this means that , first and foremost, you're going to be able to as openly condemned the hate speech because you're not going to see it happening.
You're second going to underestimate the power of the hate speech and the number of individuals who are hateful because you're not going to really see them as openly or be able to engage them as openly and additionally you're going to allow it to kind of like fester in the darkest corners which is probably only going to serve to further to further strengthen hateful feelings and the feelings of self persecution or whatever that hateful people feel.
So you're probably not going to really accomplish a whole lot by banning hate sites.
But even if that's not necessarily true, when you look at it from a different perspective hate speech, unlike the internet is not problematic insofar as like you're talking about websites devoted to hate or hate sites, it's problematic when it spills over into like private areas so like if someone's facebook wall or twitter feed, which is not a hate site, becomes a place where hate congregates and things like that.
I think that those are rather distinct things and it seems like place like sites that are devoted to allowing a form for people to communicate about their hate seems to be a pretty clear ground where they have their right to like discuss things as they see fit and it also seems to be a comparatively benign ground for them to do these kinds of things because it's a sequestered part of the internet, more or less, where people don't have to engage with it unless they choose to or want to.
So for all those reasons we should not ban hate sites.