We should ban alcoholic beverages because of the incredible harm they do to people on a daily basis and the necessity of fixing that problem with an extreme and direct action in order to fix the many ways which people get hurt on a daily basis by alcohol.
And I think that a ban is therefore a good solution.
So, let's start by talking about what the actual harms of alcohol are.
Because I think that they come in two ways.
First, there's a lot of inherent harms that are associated with alcohol.
Alcohol hurt people's health in a very direct way.
It like hurts people's liver, it hurt people's brains it can cause heart problems, there's all kinds of ways in which alcohol can alcohol can actually just like impede on your health.
And this is bad because this causes a lot of harms for society at large.
This requires people not being able to be workers, possibly people being reliant on like, the healthcare system and things like that, people needing access to like doctors and things like that, and all of that is certainly a drain.
That's also a drain on individual people alone.
It's also harmful to individual people.
So we don't want people to make these decisions if they're going bad decisions.
But additionally, there's also facilitative problems with alcohol.
It facilitates a lot of problems in that, when you drink alcohol, you're more likely to commit violent crimes, you're more likely to do things that are dangerous or reckless, like drive drunk or things like that, and obviously these things are very bad and making them illegal, is fine, making them a illegal is helpful, but it doesn't solve the root cause of the problem because I think that, if we're willing to make things like driving under the influence illegal and if we're for willing to make things like like, drinking in public illegal because we know that it could possibly lead to like violence or things like that, or disorderly conduct, I think that if we are willing to make those things illegal it's because we think that those things are quite bad, and I think if you think those things are quite bad, we also need to do what we can to eliminate the root causes of those things, which could be alcohol.
So, given that all of that is true, obviously, why do I think that a ban is a good way to actually make sure that this works?
Because recognize that, it's not important that by banning something you're going to get a hundred percent compliance, obviously if you ban alcohol, some people are still going to find ways to drink alcohol, but the problem is that's not the way the harms work.
Cause if we can even make that number a good deal lower or even a little bit lower, that's still saving people from liver problems, it's still seating people from possibly violent incidents or violent car accidents because of someone driving drunk.
If we can even like solve that a little bit, that's still a really good thing.
So, this is important.
Because I think that, the social stigma power that comes with banning something is incredibly important.
I think that people are just going to be more afraid of doing things because they're banned it's going to be more of a perception of danger against these things that it's going to be bad, there's no longer going to be this active glorification, you're not gonna see people on TV shows as much like maybe like in like a TV show just publicly drinking or in like commercials for beer, things like that, all these things that normalize alcohol, all of that is going to disappear.
And I think that, through time that's going to result in a different percentage of different perspective on alcohol usage.
And I think that overall that's going to be good.
So, for all those reasons, very proud to propose.