We should abolish term limits because term limits are anti-democratic, can be bad policy in a decent amount of circumstances and they're not necessarily inherently bad in the first place.
So for starters, term limits are inherently anti-democratic and the reason for that is because when you're talking about what an ideal democracy should look like it's one where the people are maximally empowered to choose who they think is best able to enact their ideals, their ideas and policies into actual action.
And and whatever people think is going to be the best for them that's a choice you make.
So in order to be just in that way you want to be minimally restrictive in who you allow to run for office.
So things like term limits, things like age limits, limits of all kinds that restrict who's allowed to get who's allowed to get access to office is necessarily bad because it restricts the rights of the people to decide who their leaders are.
And it allows whoever sets like these archaic laws in the first place oftentimes to make these decisions.
But secondarily term limits can also be bad from a policy perspective and a very clear example of this could be you know someone like FDR where it may make sense to have somebody who's in power for more than one term.
So let's say that you're in the middle of a war and you may not want to change leaders in the middle of a war, it could be in the middle of an economic crisis, or it could just be that there is not anyone that's more qualified for the position then the person who could run for the third term and that's who the people think is going to be most capable of actually getting things done because no more experience than you have in position maybe you're going to be better at it.
All of those could be perfectly valid circumstances under which it would make sense for somebody to have multiple terms, and certainly not be limited by anything.
The the final thing that I want to talk about it is term limits aren't necessarily bad and they're only bad insofar as the democratic process itself isn't being followed.
So obviously if you have like people who are proclaiming themselves as presidents for life that's like inherently suspect because it's essentially saying that like you're going to be president forever and not necessarily subject the public well.
I don't really think that that's what term limits are about.
The idea behind term limits is that if you let someone rule for like fifteen years instead of like ten years or something like that, then suddenly that person is becoming more despotic and their rule over the country's tightening or something, which I think is a little bit ridiculous because it's all about who the person that's wielding power is and whether or not the democracy itself is healthy is probably independent of whether or not there are term limits.
So for all those reasons do not we should for all those reasons we should abolish term limits.