We should cancel the social security tax, and we should cancel it not because it is ideal in its current form, but because of any alternatives that could possibly exist would be inferior.
Any feasible alternatives would simply not be good enough, and social security is so important to so many people.
It is necessary, therefore, that we keep and await it.
First let's start by talking about some of the things that we would defend.
We think it's perfectly comfortable that since we're defending the side of keeping the social security tax as it currently is, we can still defend minor changes, for example, ending the contribution caps and things like that that make it a more financially salient solution to the baby boomer problem.
So, now that this has been established, let's talk about why social security is so important to the lives of so many senior citizens.
Recognize that before the passage of social security by the FDR administration, millions upon millions of senior citizens died in poverty, with no money at all to their name.
Why is this true?
Because senior citizens do not as they are retired, obviously, don't have money to take care of themselves.
They don't have a way to generate income and they don't have a way to just take care of themselves in very basic ways.
So this puts them in a position of extreme dependency out of no fault of their own, simply out of biological necessity.
But, additionally, the money that seniors make and the money that seniors save becomes less valuable over time as goods become more expensive and as inflation rises, so maybe and additionally, as minimum wage laws and things like that also generally progress.
So this is important because it means that even if you made a good amount of money in your living, it's still difficult to save that money because you're going to have even if you save your money up, you're still not going to have enough money, likely, to afford the basic things that you need to enjoy a good quality of life once you become a senior citizen.
So, now that we've established that social security is incredibly important, let's next talk about why it is necessary that we keep it in the form it is.
So first, I think it's highly unlikely that we would ever actually see a more progressive system like the one that our government described, and I think the reason for this is because the political incentives against social security are oftentimes already incredibly large and that there is not that many more incentives to do those kinds of things.
I think that the much more likely scenario that we would see play out would be a privatization scheme.
So, this would be absolutely horrible, and it would be absolutely horrible for several reasons.
First and foremost, I think that when you create a profit motive for this industry, rather than relying on the government to make investments and not having to worry about profit, when you have a profit seeking industry taking care of this, they're more likely to take higher risk investments, and they'll take those higher risk investments because they have a possible promise of a higher payout.
Now, this may sound okay because it means that senior citizens are going to get more money, but I ultimately think that this is a big problem because when you're taking a risk with someone else's money, you are additionally also likely to be less careful with this.
So this is incredibly bad because I think that what this will likely therefore end up doing is whenever you get to a time of a recession or even in non-times of recession, you're going to have people taking risks with senior citizens' life savings, things that they depend on to survive, and that's simply not something that we can accept, so that's not going to work.
But additionally, privatization is also going to be more expensive for people because even if you're not going to have to pay the social security tax or the like, you're still going to have to take things like manager fees, you have to pay usually like basis points off of like basis points off of the money that you make or investments that you make and things like that.
And oftentimes because of the higher costs of operating for the private sector and about how they have to make the profit, you're going to have to pay more for the exact same service that you're getting.
So this is going to hurt poor people, and this is really bad because these poor people are the ones who rely on social security the most.
But finally, I don't think that the using employer-funded systems are a very good solution because as we see in the status quo, employer funded pensions can oftentimes be ended or cut prematurely, which additionally leads to the harm that we are talking about to a whole lot of people.
So for all of those reasons, we should definitely not cancel the social security tax.