We should keep anonymous posts, because anonymous posts are absolutely vital for free expression, but also attempting to ban anonymous posting is one of the most unenforceable things I've ever heard.
So, let's start with that, about why this is ultimately doomed to failure, and I think that the biggest reason for this is, that if people post anonymously because they don't want their identity known, and, just by like amorphously banning someone from posting anonymously, doesn't mean that they're not going to post, especially if they really want to say something like that.
It's pretty easy to both hide your identity on the internet, but also try to like alter your identity on the internet.
So, if like for example, now you can anonymously post on reddit, or four chan, or something like that, now you're just going to, instead, pretend to you can just pretend to be somebody else.
So, if previously I would post on reddit anonymously, now I can post on reddit as say, james ladder, or tim luciano, or will smith, or rachel gefaismen, and I live in a similar area as them, I can alter my identity, there's also ways to have like IP addresses changed, or anonymized, or things like that, and I highly doubt, that in most cases, the government is probably going to devote so many resources that actually cracking down on these kinds of things, like millions of probably more than millions of people pirate music, pirates TV shows, and things like that, and it's not like the government can just enforce this, and be at their door for every single kind of thing, and the people who are high enough profile targets, that the government would want to enforce this kind of a ban, are are probably the people who are most capable of hiding their identity, getting their message across, without this kind of anonymous posting.
So, idyllic, all you're going to do is just like further muddy the discourse.
And now, instead of having anonymous posting, you're just going to have like a bunch of false people posting under like false aliases, or things like that.
So, I really don't think that this is actually going to work in any way, and it' and this just like makes the problem even harder to really focus on.
But, the next thing is free expression, and I feel like this is incredibly important, because oftentimes people feel constrained in what they can say, based on the fact that based on the fact they may fear social backlash, political backlash, whether it's from the employer, from strangers on the internet, and things like that, and I think that there's a lot to this.
Like, sometimes, if you like post your thoughts on the internet, or on a forum, or things like that, you can put your you you put yourself out there, for possibly anyone in the world honestly, criticizing you, threatening you, or things like that, and being able to post anonymously, brings a kind of shield to your identity, and it makes it more likely that you could be willing to engage, and express your thoughts in the first place.
And, I think that that's one of the most important things about the internet, the way in which it encourages you to express yourself.
And, that's incredibly important, for making sure that you actually can have real discourse, and it's important for making sure that there's real discussion happening, over a diverse set of viewpoints, rather than just a more focused set, of what are seen as the socially acceptable viewpoints.
So, for all of those reasons, very proud to oppose this motion.