We should ban anonymous posts because anonymous posts create a culture on the internet of harassment and it silences discourse and it additionally also leads to devaluing of discourse and overall worse discussions about substantive issues in society and I think that those are very bad things that the government directly has a business in regulating.
So first let's talk about what I think is the most severe issue and that's that anonymous posting creates it makes it a lot easier to have harassment.
And I think that the reason why this happens is because when you don't have to actually attach your identity to what you're posting, you feel more emboldened to do things that you may otherwise be more unwilling to do.
So obviously there's crimes on the books about things like stalking, about harassing, about publishing private information about people.
These are all things that are illegal in the status quo, however when these things are done via anonymous posts or false identities, it makes it so that it's incredibly difficult to so that it's actually incredibly difficult to enforce these laws because the internet is just so widespread.
The internet just like so like easy to use and accessible to so many people that it becomes and since all of your information, everything is oftentimes on the internet nowadays, whether you have hackers or just bad people, they're able to get access to this information and do incredibly bad things to you.
And I think when you ban anonymous posts in addition to more directly targeting the postings itself, you're also targeting the sites that allow that serve as a platform that enable these kinds of harassments and things like that to happen in the first place.
So no longer well like places like 4chan or like r/alt_right on like as a subreddit or things like that no no longer will like these kinds of like anonymous areas be able to function as essentially incubators for the worst kinds of people in society.
Because now they're not going to be able because the sites don't want to get shut down, the sites are going to be worried about their own legal repercussions and their own interests.
So they're not going to have as so if you ban anonymous posts then they're obviously not going to let their own people get involved in these kinds of things and you can put the onus on these platforms to conduct like identity checks and things like that.
So that way you actually have enforceable anti-harassment laws and more enforceable privacy laws and things like that.
And I think in like the internet age where all these things are very prevalent problems, this is a very real policy issue that we need to solve.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is I want to talk about trolling and the impact that this has on discourse and the like.
Because I think this is very important in that people, because of the threat of harassment or the threat of violence and things like that, are possibly not as willing to express their views on the internet which is a primary platform for communication nowadays.
So like any time for example you criticize maybe donald trump supporters on twitter or things like that, you can open yourself up to anything from death threats to like your identity being hacked or your accounts being hacked and all kinds of things like that.
So it makes it more unlikely that people won't even feel comfortable expressing themselves.
So that suppresses discourse which is obviously something that is pretty bad.
But I also think that it makes it more likely that you're going to see things like trolling, you're going to see things like that that are going to further degrade the discourse that we have in society which makes discussions more uneducated, discussions more hyperbolic, less ground in reality and informed, higher prevalence of fake news because people are more willing to like spread around false lies and rumors and things like that if there's no shame or stigma attached to like them putting their face not themselves.
I think that banning anonymous posts can get rid of a lot of these problems.
So for those reasons we should ban anonymous posts.