We should end delight savings time because daylight savings time doesn't really have any purpose.
It's kind of just confusing and if anything harmful and all of the benefits supposed benefits are largely fake or not that important.
So let's first talk about how this is true.
There is two general reasons there's like general reasons why daylight savings times exist and that's because they want to try to lower down energy costs during nighttime hours and things like that.
So any kind of research that existed on this if it is persuasive at all that daylight savings time actually incentivizes savings in energy productions, first of all, mostly this is like archaic and old.
Second of all, this was more important maybe fifty years ago when we are in world war two or other kinds of things like this when there was real nationwide energy like consumption like charting in these kinds of ways, because there's more needs to save, that's not really as much of a problem anymore but I just finally don't think that this is true for the most part.
I think that by and large most americans have their routines like in the same way like my lights are on right now because it's cloudy in massachusetts in that this these are things that happen oftentimes no matter what the time of day is if it's dark outside or whatever sometimes certain rooms in houses are dark.
Like I think by and large this seems like a nice idea but by and large I don't think that is on like both of like as far as research is concerned on like intuitive obvious level, I don't actually think that people change their lighting or energy habits all that much with regards to daylight savings.
However one thing that research has to some extent shown is that on the days in which you are actually making the switches in time zones, people are losing extra hours of sleep so there's been studies that have shown that people are more likely to get into accidents on those days whether it's like work related accidents or car accidents because people are more likely to have had less sleep.
There's also obviously problems about records being confused or things like that public records of the crime and things like that.
I also think that as far as like this concerns farmers most people aren't farmers anymore so like this isn't really a big issue actually.
So there's not too many compelling reasons why you need to keep delight savings as a point of comparison.
It also as far as like the idea of wanting to have more daylight hours after work for like health reason and things like that, maybe it's like good because people are more likely to go outside and like do things if it's light outside at seven o'clock in the that's in theory persuasive but this doesn't daylight savings doesn't even solve that problem.
You need to have light it expands daylight most during the spring and summer which is when days are already longer so like if it's going to be if the sun would set at eight o'clock now it's going to set at nine o'clock and you do get that extra hour of daylight but that doesn't even impact stuff during the winter when you need it more.
Like in boston if the sun sets at four thirty it the four thirty PM half the time during throughout the winter and daylight savings doesn't even let it set during five thirty during the winter and that's when you even need it more.
So it seems like this isn't even a good solution to a problem if you think it exists.
So for those reasons, end daylight savings time.