Patriotism definitely does more harm than good, for two big reasons: first, because patriotism as an ideology leads to people enacting far more oppressive, and worse off, policies, and secondarily, because patriotism makes it more difficult to even critique the validity, or benefits, or cost of these policies itself.
So let's break all that down.
First, let's talk about the policies themselves, and why I think that patriotism fosters a lot of that policies.
The reason why it does this is because patriotism creates almost an idea of in group supremacy, it creates like this pathological support for your own nation, for your own government, it puts the values that you try like uniquely possess on a pedestal, and it necessarily oftentimes portrays this in contrast to other cultures, or other nations, or other values, and it also necessarily creates a system, where there's an us versus them dichotomy.
So, I think that this is really important, because what it does is it creates things like more animosity towards like say, free trade, or more animosity towards immigration policy, or more of a willingness to declare war.
All of these things are obviously very bad for different reasons.
But I also think that it also has, in addition to those more like international impacts, like the way in which you can harm other people, by discriminating against like hispanics because of immigration, or things like that.
It also has a problematic domestic nature as well, and I think that the reason for that is because patriotism results in a skew of spending priorities.
What it does is, instead of seeing spending on, maybe, things like healthcare being prioritized, you're more likely to see, because of a patriotic ideology, more likely to see government money going towards things like the military, or war, or like crime prevention, or any of the other kinds of things, that are more traditionally associated with patriotism, or with like like american ideology, and that's very important, because this hurts a lot of people, it hurts a lot of people when we're willing to spend more money on war, than on things like healthcare or education.
But the second area of debate I want to discuss is that, patriotism makes it harder to critique policy itself, and it makes it harder to critique policy, because, what it lets you do is it lets you dismiss the complaints that people bring up about your policies as simply anti american.
What it does, is it creates a way for you to use scare tactics, or anti american sentiment, in order to just eliminate dissent.
So, what would be like an example of this illustrate the principle of this?
You could be saying that like, if you're like anti war, because you think the war is unjust, or because like you're hurting other people, or things like that, it's very easy for someone to say like: you're soft on war, you're soft on defense, you're soft on this or that, or even more perniciously: do you want the russians to get an advantage?
Do you want mexico to get an advantage?
Or china or whatever x country is, that's like very very bad, because what it does is it diminishes the value of the concerns on face.
It doesn't let you actually discuss: you know what?
Maybe we shouldn't be doing this thing, this money could be better spent elsewhere, things like that.
It diminishes the actual value of the discussion in the discourse, and essentially makes it like this like impossible discussion, about who's more american, who's better in line with these arbitrary values.
So, I think that that's also like very very bad.
And, that means they are less likely going to actually get the better policies being enacted.
So for all those reasons, because patriotism leads to worse policies, and because patriotism means you're going to be less likely to try to critique those policies, very proud to propose that, it does more harm than good.