We should not abolish the right to keep and bear firearms because guns can be important for self defense and also sport for some people.
So let's start by talking about what we would support.
Because abolishing the right to keep and have firearms would would mean that pretty much all guns can be banned and regulated.
And I think that there's a much more reasonable common ground, where you can ban things like automatic and semi automatic weapons, you can ban things like assault rifles.
Our you can also regulate access much more strictly.
You can have a universal background checks, you can maybe like tax guns, require gun insurance, make like all kinds of restrictions and regulations that are put in place that will I make it so that guns are less likely to fall into the wrong people's hands and that guns are less likely to be abused and they are more likely to be safe.
But that doesn't mean that guns are all inherently bad.
So there's a couple of things here: so the first of which is that there is a self defense concern that is here.
Guns are incredibly prominent in america, and regardless of whether or not you legally allow people to have guns, there's already millions and millions of guns that are already in existence.
So in order to make sure that people are able to protect themselves possibly, able to use self defense, you want at least some people who are trained to have guns besides police officers who may not be able to get there in time.
Because if there's a civilian has a gun who is being attacked or sees somebody being attacked, then maybe they're able to do something about it.
That could be like a really good legitimate and valid use for a gun.
So guns can have like they can definitely serve a purpose.
But beyond that I also think that guns can be useful for sport.
A whole lot of people compete in things.
Like whether it's like rifling or target practice, you just go to a shooting range for the fun of it, or maybe like deer are over populating some area so you're able to hunt some deer, or something like that.
Things that already are legitimate in allowable and happen right now.
This is like an important thing that some people do, that some people have fun with and that's a choice some people make.
And it doesn't really hurt anyone.
It doesn't really hurt anyone that people go to like a shooting range or hunt some overpopulated deer or something like that.
These are like perfectly legitimate pastimes.
And in like a liberal society, in a democratic society you should make it so that people are able to like just do what they wanna do.
But the final thing, the final argument is that this is this right has really important historical roots in a check against in in a check against oppression in a lot of ways.
The government has like a whole lot of ability to use force and it can do a lot of stuff to you that could necessarily be bad.
So the ability of people to like keep firearms, keep their own independent sources of power and weaponry, if they need to, and the whatever, can be something that could be useful like for a variety of reasons in the instance that there's oppression.
This debate isn't just taking place in the united states, it's abolishing rights to have guns wherever these guns may exist it seems.
So in circumstances where maybe you need it for safety not just from other individuals, but from even state or more organized actors, guns can obviously serve a role and a purpose.
So for all those reasons don't abolish rights to have firearms.