The one child policy brought more good than harm to china, because it was an act of necessity, and while it may not have been a perfect policy, it was necessary from a like a physical carrying capacity standpoint, an environmental and an economic standpoint.
So, I think that it's very important to note this necessity, because this necessity came out of the fact, that when it was instituted, china was already the biggest population in the world, with over well over a billion people living with its borders, and this creates a lot of problems.
First, on the like environmental physical like limitation of a carrying capacity of any given area.
Because, it's important to note that, human beings use a tremendous amount of resources in their lives.
That's why we have a lot of like environmental problems, that we have now.
Because human beings use a lot of natural resources, whether it's like oil or coal or gas or whatever for heating, whether it's water for drinking, land for food, or like a land for farming and for food, or precious metals for trinkets that they may like to have, or for like electronics I guess as well, like there's like endless ways in which human beings use tremendous amount of resources.
This is compounded by the fact that as societies go through the stages of development, as they move on from developing countries to developed countries, you only tend to see people using more and more resources.
So, this presents a problem, because china was already one of the biggest countries in the world, and it was already using up a tremendous amount of resources.
China was only going to keep using more and more resources as it got more and more developed as a nation, because its standards of living would just get higher.
So, this is a problem, because it would be it would be just like, without major changes, impossible for china to actually function that way.
You would see mass shortages of a lot of resources, mass increases in the expenses of these resources, because there be such high demands, and a lot of these things have finite like, natural, like a lot of these resources have finite natural capacities, so the supply wouldn't be able to meet the demand that an average human has.
So, this is why a one child policy is important, because it necessarily eh it shrinks you, it shrinks the size of the country in the long run, and it shrinks the demand and strain on these resource in the long run.
I also think this is good from a health standpoint, because overpopulation , especially given that a lot of the population increase in china have been on a lot of like coastal cities in china, which are many of the biggest cities in the world, this is where a lot of the population increase caprice, and there's a lot of density related problems that are health related problems, with overcrowding as well.
But the final thing I want to talk about is about the economic aspects of this, because I think that this was economically important as well, recognize, that by having a ever increasing population is good, as long as the economy keeps growing up, with it.
One of the worst things that you could have is you can be having an influx of people, in their twenties or thirties, not being able to find jobs, because there's been massive increases in the population, but there is economic slowdowns or stagnations.
And, this kind of thing is more evident in a lot of more developed countries, like you can look to places like japan as examples, but also obviously places like america or western europe as well, where as places become more and more developed, you tend to see economies tend to slow down more.
They still grow, but not as much, and this is key, because this meant that if you solve the current rate and of population growth in china continue, at the rate that it was, there simply would not have been enough jobs in order to actually maintain all these kinds of things.
And, this is a important, because like when this policy was enacted in like the nineteen seventies, where you can see right now china's economic growth is already slowing down, like when this was enacted you'd start to see people start to see more and more people, if it weren't enacted in their twenties or thirties, right now who would be struggling to find jobs , this creates demographic problems, it creates long term economic problems, because the worst time to have unemployment is in your twenties and thirties, that's when you're supposed to be getting out of college, starting your career and all those things.
This leads to a whole lot of civil unrest and long term social problems.
So, for all those reasons, the one child policy brought more good than harm.