We should subsidize public service broadcasters because it's vital that people have access to free services and information if they can't afford cable.
So this is very simple.
Not everyone has the money to afford cable.
These things can cost like some maybe could be twenty dollars a month for the most cheap package, maybe could be fifty dollars a month or a hundred dollars a month, it depends on where you are.
And this is a big deal because some people are struggling to get by and a lot of people don't have this money to just spend around on that.
Especially when when you have to when you're forced to like buy a cable package, you're spending money on things that you're by and large not going to use most of the things most of the channels anyway.
Public service broadcasting has a solution to that.
It's free as far as the service is concerned and it can provide like valuable services.
So PBS can have things like shows for kids, so you had things like sesame street in america, it could also have important news and important information so that people don't have to pay for information, people have to pay for like news in order to know what's going around in the world and that's very important, because it just basically leads to a more educated in foreign populist and make sure that people at least have a basic ability to it like have like services.
But the other thing that I want to talk about is that what do these subsidies actually entail.
Because when people like donald trump talk about wanting to just completely gut PBS, what we don't realize is just like how limited of an impact this actually has.
Like when you're talking about how much a subsidy for public service broadcasting has to be, given that like they don't have to do the most extravagant things ever, it's just one channel and they can even have advertising on that channel, to like make up some of the revenue that's happening.
The only thing that the only difference is that it's going to be like free for the individual customer.
But these things don't cost all that much money for the state.
Because by and large you can like sustain it reasonably without a revenue, because people do watch PBS, but additionally you could also just like not like cut the money because it's such a drop in the bucket compared to what an overall federal budget is likely to be.
Like the amount of money that we spend on PBS in america at least is like a very very small fraction of what the budget is.
Like I'm sorry but maybe have one less warplane and suddenly you have an entire budget for PBS there.
At the end of the day, it's not like we're actually taking all that much money away from really important things in order to prop up this service.
So with that and given that it's something that helps people, it's something that isn't all that much of an unreasonable expense, I think that it's quite clear that we should support public broadcasting services and keep subsidizing it.
So for for all those reasons proud to propose.