We should not end athletic scholarships because keeping athletic scholarships is a very valuable way to help people from disadvantaged backgrounds and also the people who are receiving these athletic scholarships certainly deserve them given the amount of benefits they actually give to the universities in the first place.
So let's start out by talking about why athletic scholarships are just like a moral thing to have.
So by and large most people because we're very very few people who are playing sports in college no matter what division are actually going to be able to make it professionally.
The benefits of getting an athletic scholarship are because you're getting a university degree for free and for a whole lot of people getting financial aid may not be something that's possible you may not be able to get accepted into the college in the first place and there's also oftentimes a lot of people who aren't able to really take out loans or are inconfident or aren't going to be able to succeed in those kinds of ways.
There's a whole lot of also a lot of people because of like the backgrounds in which they grew up in maybe it's not really like possible for them to like put together a successful enough college application that they would be able to get in otherwise.
And a whole lot of people from disadvantaged backgrounds and a lot of times they do tend to be minorities are helped by athletic scholarships you're essentially giving them an opportunity to take their degree and make a life in a way in which they aren't going to have otherwise.
Oftentimes people who get athletic scholarships are the first person in their family to actually get a college degree and that's something that's really incredible and not something that should be taken for granted when you're considering this.
A lot of these people can't just get merit aid in the same way that doesn't mean that you're not qualified it doesn't mean they are capable of succeeding it just means that they're having a chance taken on them in a different way.
But I also want to talk about whether or not they deserve this.
Because it's common argument is oh you should give it people who got in with their brain blah blah blah.
Here's the problem at the end of the day the people who get an on athletic scholarships are doing an incredibly good service to the universities because when you talk about the schools that most commonly employ these oftentimes large state schools that are operating off of limited budgets because state governments don't care that much about public education so they're oftentimes operating off of limited budgets and donations can be transient and not always stable one thing that is stable is the millions upon millions of dollars that you get off of selling tickets to pack a stadium for a team.
Or off of the multi million dollar endorsement deals that you get or marketing deals for televising games and all these kinds of things.
All those kinds of things rake money in for universities they rake money in for athletic departments they rake money in for the school at large which can used bailed better research facilities to hire professors to fund other students financial aid and all kinds of things.
I honestly think that this giving to these people who are responsible for making all this money in the first place by putting in the work.
The least you could do for them is give them a free college education because quite honestly they deserve a whole lot more for the money they make these universities and the benefits they give so the universities to the university itself to all of the people in charge and to all of their fellow students who benefit from their presence we definitely should not end athletic scholarships.