We should abolish needle exchange programs for two big reasons: first because it encourages drug use by making it easier to do drugs in a safer way, and secondarily because it requires a spending of money and ultimately there's only limited resources that people are going to be willing to spend on these things, and it can take away from more important things like rehabilitation services.
So let's talk about these two things.
First, how it encourages drug use.
It's quite obvious that when you minimize the possible harms that are associated with it, and let's say getting HIV from doing heroin is obviously in additional compounding harm that is associated with it, then this makes it more likely that people are going to do these drugs in the first place.
Obviously we shouldn't be encouraging these kinds of things because they're, well drugs that require needles, they're oftentimes quite dangerous, uniquely dangerous compared to a lot of other drugs, and they're the ones that society should be the least encouraging of.
So this is very important because the nuance of this argument is that people are probably going to do certain kinds of drugs regardless.
However, they don't necessarily have to do things like heroin.
Like maybe people can do a different drug instead, like cocaine if they're gonna do an illegal drug, or maybe an a hallucinogen like LSD.
I think that oftentimes, you're not gonna be able to out right deter people from doing drugs if they want to do drugs.
But people who are willing to do drugs, you can probably direct them more towards different drugs, and I think this is important because if it's not as easy or it's not as possible for a lot of people to do drugs, because they can't really access needles as , as easily, people are going to be more likely to do things that are easier to do, like maybe cocaine, because all you need is like a lighter or sniffing or something like that.
So, ultimately this is good because there's a lot of comparative safety to these drugs.
So if people are going to do drugs at all, which they probably are, it's better didn't do them in the safer way.
But the second thing that I want to talk about is about the problem political will.
And I think that the way this problem manifests itself is that people are generally unsympathetic to drug users and people are generally, in political society, unwilling to spend a lot of public dollars on helping people who struggle with drug problems.
So if they're going to be spending money on providing needles from these people, they're probably not going to be is willing to spend even more money on other services.
These services can include things like rehabilitation, and that's quite quite bad because I think that on the scale of things that are more important, things like rehabilitation services, addiction services, or support services and the like like halfway houses, all those things are likely more important but less likely to happen if you're already spending money on these other kinds of services.
So these two things combined make it so that a needle exchange program, while it on its like superficially on it's surface, may seem like it's doing good because it can lead to like direct benefits in that obviously it's better if someone uses a clean needle than a dirty needle.
However, the best thing that we should be like the best goal that we should be looking for is them using no needles at all, either because they're using a different drug or because they're not addicted to the drug in the first place.
And both of those things are less likely to happen if they're going to have a needle exchange program.
So for those reasons abolish them.