We should fight gender inequality because gender inequality is absolutely horrible, it's immoral and has all kinds of bad consequences.
So let's start by talking about at the most basic level why is gender inequality a bad thing.
And the most basic thing is that people should be treated the same.
Whether you're a man or a woman, you're still a person.
You still have thoughts, you still have feelings, you still have your own body that you should have autonomy over.
These are basic things.
It's a matter of basic human dignity that you should be respected.
You should be respected as an equal person.
In the same way in that, just because somebody's white or somebody's black or hispanic or asian, you shouldn't treat people differently on the basis of their race, you shouldn't treat people differently on the basis of their gender.
People don't really pick their gender, it's something that you're by and large just born into and it's something that is an immutable characteristic.
And it's not something that you should be treated differently on the basis of.
It's something that is like also a basic part of your identity.
So feeling ashamed, feeling oppressed or being oppressed because of such a basic part of your identity is an incredibly messed up thing that really does a whole lot of damage to people.
But beyond that more philosophical reason why we should fight gender inequality, there's also a lot of practical impacts and they're also really bad.
First and foremost there's there are safety concerns about it.
Whether it's like literal sexual assaults that happen far too frequently, sexual harassment that we see frequently, whether it's donald trump like harasser in chief, harvey weinstein like was a recent scandal, or bill o'reilly or anything like that.
Or like rapes on college campuses, rape and sexual domestic violence.
There's all kinds of ways in which women are literally physically attacked as a result of the gender inequality that exists.
And that's probably because men feel like they have almost this kind of ownership over women in a sexual way.
And that, and the result of this is basically a physical imposition of gender equality on people.
It makes it so that women are physically harmed as the result of gender inequality.
So it's not just the psychological harm or this kind of like philosophical immoral thing.
You're literally attacking women because of gender inequality as a result of that.
So that's obviously very bad.
Beyond that, there's also incredibly harmful political consequences.
Gender inequality manifests itself in incredibly rights violative ways.
So if a basic political precept is that we should have democracy, we should have representative government, and government should be representative because that's the way in which he got its legitimacy and gets its consent from the governed, then that's a big problem.
Because women are by and large disproportionately unrepresented in government.
Women are often time there's, obviously in america there's never been a a female president.
But beyond that, there's also a huge skew in terms of gender balance of politicians.
And that's important because when you have female politicians, they're more likely to understand political issues that uniquely affect women.
So whether it's things like maternity leave or abortion or women's health care, things like that.
Men are disproportionately more likely to want to actively infringe on these kind of political rights of women, things like that.
So you need more female politicians to counterbalance that in a practical sense and also just so you're actually giving political representation to women in a fair way.
There's also obviously financial consequences of this too.
Women make less money on the dollar then men do, which is really bad because it's incredibly unfair, women are more likely going to be financially dependent on men especially because of the way that childbirth works.
Women are likely going to face discrimination in the workplace because of that or they're less likely to get they're more likely to get passed over for promotions and less likely to make money.
So there's a lot of financial consequences of gender inequality as well.
So for all those very bad reasons, we should definitely fight gender inequality.