We should not further exploit nuclear power and we shouldn't exploit it further because while nuclear power is arguably in at some cases better than some of our current energy uses like fossil fuels, I don't think that it's better than green energy as far as the comparative is concerned and I think that further exploitation especially if it's going to happen right now should be largely focused on green energy and there's necessarily a trade off in terms of resources for investment.
If you were to invest in nuclear power that will come at the expense of green energy.
So let's talk about those two things.
First, why green energy is better than nuclear power and secondarily, why there's going to be a trade off between the two that's bad.
So first, why is green energy better?
So I think that first and foremost it's safer.
Green energy they first and most obviously can't be weaponized.
You're not going to be able to weaponize the wind or solar energy.
So whenever states try to come up with excuses like oh well we need to have this nuclear factory for peaceful purposes or whatever, well now that's not an excuse anymore because you don't really need nuclear power because green energy could be a thing.
But additional it is also risks of meltdowns and while meltdowns aren't all that common in the status quo and not they don't happen all that often, there's two problems.
First, when they do happen they're quite severe.
So if you think that for example like things like like I think it's like six mile island or whatever in america, or chernobyl in like russia or ukraine, you look at the fukushima disaster in japan, these things have made entire areas essentially unlivable and because of global radiation spread through things like the wind whenever there's like nuclear fallout from a meltdown these things have big consequences but additionally also when you're upping the scale of production, that's also going to add in more risk.
Especially now when you have a lot more environmental volatility in a global warming era when there's a lot more natural asters but I think that additionally it's also going to be in the long term better from a an environmental perspective in a cost perspective because there's always going to be some kind of green energy alternative like there's probably very few places on earth that don't either have running water that you can use for hydroelectric power, wind that you can use for wind energy or sunlight.
If a place doesn't have water, doesn't have wind, doesn't have like a lot of sunlight, it's very difficult to find a place on earth that meets all of these criteria so or example maybe massachusetts isn't that sunny but it's very windy, maybe somewhere like texas or israel is a lot more sunny even if it doesn't have as much say like running water or things like that.
So there is those arguments but I also think that as far as cost is concerned uranium is you have to set up the factory, you have to put in a whole lot of cautions on the factories for like nuclear factories, you have to mine uranium.
Uranium is a whole lot rare and more expensive.
So all of these things are also on the cost terms if you're going to exploit something or invest in something more on the cost terms it's probably going to be better to and cheaper and more versatile in the long run to use green energy.
And this is a problem because in terms of absolute absolute terms, there's going to be limited resources as far as what you invest in so the government just isn't going to be able to invest in everything that you want to but also on like the political level, there's always going to be political checks that you are going to make so that the government's never going to be able to spend all the money on things.
So if you're further exploiting nuclear power as your energy source once you see your energy needs are satiated you're probably not going to be is likely to want to invest even more money into other things like green energy when they're not seen as necessary because you already have nuclear power.
So I think that for all those reasons, we should not further exploit nuclear power.