Corporal punishment should not be banned and it should be allowed because I don't actually think that the long term consequences are all that severe and I think that from like a trauma perspective obviously and I think as far as a disciplinary tool it can be a pretty effective way.
I think that most people have been spanked like most people when they were kids we're probably once or twice or maybe more than that we're spanked by their parents sometimes maybe if like you use swear words your dad was just like I'm going to wash your mouth out with soap rah rah rah and they do that as a way to make your point go across.
Oftentimes it's pretty benign things.
And I think there's a difference between like spanking somebody like washing their mouth out with say soap doing other kinds of like physical punishments to somebody.
I don't think that means abuse obviously you can't like like you don't wanna like punch your kid in the face or like or like punch them really like anywhere as like a way to like punish them you don't want to like permanently bruise them.
You don't want to like actually harm your kid.
I think there's like a clear distinction between abuse and corporal punishment and the difference is that like things that might like abuse can cause actual long term lasting harm but if you're just like spanking somebody or like something minor like that all you're doing is getting your point across by using like minor low level violence as a way and like emphasize why something is bad.
And I think that can be pretty effective because I think that it's quite obvious that violence can make your point seem stronger.
If somebody is using like if somebody is like saying incredibly degrading or bad things about somebody and you want to really get your point across that that's a bad thing is it more effective to lecture your child about why like what they're doing is wrong and maybe they are just simply at the point where they can understand that or are you going to try to create a gut biological reaction or a gut biological like like a feeling of disgust towards that action that they made because there's definitely like research that supports this where when you closely associate and actually with a negative consequence like some kind of pain you're going to like make an association of like negative feelings of that consequence so like from a biological perspective it makes perfect sense that this is something that happens.
So I feel like kids are going to want to if you do this you're going to want to avoid it and I feel like that can often be a more effective punishment than like oh I'm going to take away your electronics because like when your kid when the kid is now sitting without like their TV or without their phone or something like that they're just going to sit and be resentful they're going to justify things to themselves and they're going to be like yeah what I did is right and they're not going to have that kind of negative like gut negative association that biological impulse away from something that comes with experiencing pain.
Because experiencing pain is just something that's like so basic that like it grains into your mind and it gets the point across a lot better often times.
So I feel it's like a pretty fair way to get your point across and I think there's no problem with that.
You want to make sure that like people aren't doing it in unreasonable ways you don't want to have people be abusive but I feel like corporal punishment isn't all that bad it's something that people have been doing for generations and most of the time there aren't really big problem with it.
So for all those reasons we shouldn't get rid of corporal punishment.