Urbanization does more harm than good for two big reasons.
First, because urbanization result in a worse quality of life, and second, because urbanization leads to people being worse off economically.
Before I get into the meat of these two arguments though, I want to first talk about the broad ability to apply these arguments more broadly.
Because I think that as much as a lot of the things about quality of life concerns and cost concerns are prevalent in developed countries around the world, when you see I think that these problems are oftentimes magnified in developing countries.
So, now that we've talked about that, let's talk about why there's going to be a worse quality of life for people.
I think the first reason why there's going to be worse quality of life is on the matter of health.
When you look at the health of people, it's oftentimes worse in concentrated urban populations, and there's a few reasons for this.
First and foremost, sanitation tends to be worse and more difficult in these circumstances.
This is obviously true in a lot of developing countries around the world that don't have the money or the infrastructure in place to actually lead to a lot of like clean public health spaces.
But this is generally true of a lot of cities in developed parts of the world too, like places like america.
You're more likely going to see higher concentrations of people that could lead to diseases spreading more rapidly, it becomes harder to dispose of things like waste efficiently and the like, more like vermin and other kinds of like or like mosquitoes, all the kinds of things that feed off of like human droppings or waste, all of these things are more likely to grow there, there's more places for a lot of these kind of things to hide in like to nooks and crannies of various things like .
There is a whole lot of like safety issues that could be concern for people, and this can have impacts on people.
There's also problems of like more concentrated pollution that can lead to longer term health problems, because quality of air tends to be worse when you're at lower higher concentrations of a population.
It's honestly in a lot of ways an endless list of reasons, and this is incredibly important because a lot of these problems are a whole lot less more severe when you don't have all this density.
It's unique to the density in a lot of ways, why you get all these health problems, and that's incredibly important.
That comes with a financial cost, but it comes with like ability of someone to live their life for a longer period of time.
People aren't going to be able to enjoy life as much either.
I also think that there is the secondary of concern under quality of life is more safety, it is safety concerns.
I think that there is also safety problems because you're more likely to see higher rates of violence or higher rates of crime when you're in more densely populated areas.
So that's also something that would be bad and expanded with more urbanization.
Additionally, I also think that there is a lot of like physiological and psychological elements that make living in a city worse off for you.
Your first and foremost, because of things like gridlock and traffic and the like, you're more likely going to have a longer commutes, you're probably going to get less sleep, you're probably going to have less access to green spaces and parks, other sources of recreation or at least it'll be more difficult to access.
And all of these things obviously can have heart health effects, if you get less sleep you're less likely to be healthy.
But they're also not always good for you psychologically.
You feel oftentimes more stressed, you feel like you're less able to relax effectively, that the amount of time that you're working feels longer.
All of these things are bad.
But there's also economic concerns to worry about, and that's the second thing I want to talk about.
I think that there is a reason why you look at rent costs in places like new york or san francisco, they're necessarily much higher than in the they're necessarily a lot higher.
And the reason for this is because people keep moving to cities under the promise of more jobs, but the rate at which you're able to create job is never going to be enough to satiate this demand.
So what you ultimately get is you get an over-saturation of the markets that are involved in this.
You're going to see people keep moving and moving into cities because of the promise of more jobs, but all this does is it increases the demand for rent for housing, and it increases the demand for goods and services and all of these other kinds of things.
This is why the average cost of living is oftentimes more expensive in cities, and this creates huge financial consequences for a whole lot of people.
So for all those reasons, urbanization does more harm than good.