We should criminalize physician-assisted suicide because it is ultimately impossible to check against abuses, and the ways in which it can be abused can ultimately have incredibly pow-profound impacts on disadvantaged people in society.
So, let's break down first, how this is actually going to look, because when you recognize the diseases that people often have when they're contemplating physician-assisted suicide, we're talking about diseases that it's very difficult or impossible to cure or treat, and treatments for these kinds of diseases can oftentimes be incredibly expensive, incredibly difficult, or things like that.
So, here's why this presents a problem.
Because there's a whole lot of people who may not be able to, it could be more like of a financial hardship for them if they're going to be paying for this money.
Now this presents a problem because then they could feel pressured into taking this they could be pressured into opting to die simply because it seems like a more financially feasible option, is a way to opt out of treatment, especially if you're only going to die in a few more months anyway.
I think this is very very bad however because, especially when you're at the end of the life, life is the most sacred thing that you could possibly have.
It's it's the root of everything that you could ever value and the last few months that you live are the most precious months and are months that should never be deprived of you and there however in it's it's it's a time to be so it's essentially it's time to do some of the things you wish you could have done throughout your life and this is your last chance to do them, to say goodbye to people.
It's very important in a lot of ways to make sure that you don't feel pressured into prematurely ending this time, and that I think is a very legitimate fear that can come out of that.
And there's no real way to check against that because it's impossible to really tell or determine if somebody is doing something because they generally feel genuinely feel at peace with a decision they're making or they're doing it because of some other kind of exterior pressure, something that we don't think should be a legitimate grounds for someone choosing to die therefore.
But the next thing I want to talk about is not just coercion because of socioeconomic status but because of the ailment that you may have itself.
You can have especially for a lot of aging people you could have alzheimer's you could possibly have a patient who has some kind of like some form of autism or there are some other kind of way in which the patient isn't able to fully conceptualize the magnitude of the decision that they are making.
This is another very clear set of circumstances where you can't actually consent to what is being done to you, and this is also another tricky set of circumstances because you may wnd up with somebody who says " oh, well this is fine.
There's no problem with this, this is legal, this is going to be easier, I'm going to die anyway, blah blah blah ".
But the problem is is that if they're not able to have a full cognition of this, then they're ultimately having their life taken away from them without their consent.
Something that is obviously quite bad.
The final thing I want to talk about is about ethics in general because I think that the goal of medical ethics and the goal of medicine in general should not be just to minimize suffering in such a way, to minimize suffering through death or things like that.
I think that that in many ways that's just a wrong way of looking at it, and the way in which you should go about this is minimize suffering while you can live yourself.
So if there is fear that someone is going to spend their last few months in pain, try instead of focusing on ending that pain prematurely, you want to make sure that there's a focus on better and more like new or better ways in which to end suffering.
So for example, instead of giving somebody a cocktail of a billion prescription drugs, maybe let them use medicinal marijuana or alternatives like that that could be nice for chronic pain.
There's I I think in a lot of ways even if it doesn't currently exist, this could also foster more research and development and those kind of things.
So for all those reasons, physician-assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.