We should ban frats because the culture surrounding frats and the actions that they take are inherently harmful and there's really no way to fix it.
You have to get rid of it altogether.
So let's start by talking about what exactly it is about fraternities that makes them so problematic and the culture around them so toxic.
There are several things here.
So first the harmful acts that it perpetuates in terms of things like rape culture and sexual assault and violence against women.
When you hear about college sexual assaults and the like while they're often while they can obviously oftentimes be from other sources oftentimes these things happen at college parties and more often than not they happen at fraternities that are hosting these parties.
And I think that there is a couple of things under this and first and foremost fraternities don't do nearly enough to prevent the sexual assaults that happen on their watch in fact they oftentimes try to actively encourage it in ways such as trying to get as many women as possible to the party trying to get those women as drunk as possible.
Trying to pressure women into sex in every way possible.
And engaging in all kinds of behavior to make it so that it's more likely that there is an environment in which women are going to be victims of sexual assault.
Additionally frats are also pretty harmful in terms of the hazing that they do.
And while there's been attempts to crackdown they haven't been very successful and you still see people dying people going to the hospital people getting seriously injured as a result of a a result of hazing.
But finally there's also there's also not always intentional but there's accidental harm that comes from fraternities.
Whether it's like alcohol overdoses and needed to get hospitalized and then getting your stomach pumped or drug overdoses or accidents related to drunkenness like falling off a roof because like those things happen sometimes.
Those kinds of things are also more common when you have fraternities that are perpetuating a party culture.
So all of those things lead to both intentional and unintentional harms and all those things can be linked to fraternities.
So why aren't these things necessarily going to be changed.
Why can't you just try to encourage better practices amongst fraternities?
And I think that there's a couple of reasons for this.
First and foremost I think they are often times unwilling.
I think that we should talk about how fraternities are perpetuating rape culture or how hazing is problematic or things like that.
Oftentimes fraternities tend to get incredibly defensive.
They try to point to other good things that they do you like community service and look at that as an excuse for harmful actions in other walks of life.
They're oftentimes saying that these are part of traditions that these are things that they've been doing for an incredibly long time or they'll even try to say that there's nothing wrong with trying to like get women as drunk as possible as long as they their idea of consent is being met.
So I think that there is an inherent unwillingness and push back that often comes with fraternities.
But moreover I also think that the community itself is incredibly toxic in a lot of ways.
Because I think that beyond that unwillingness I think that there is a group mentality that I think that there's a group mentality that makes it so that changes is less likely because because of these traditions that are going to make it so that it's steeped in.
So I think for all of those reasons we should just ban fraternities and be done with it.