International volunteering brings more harm than good for a few reasons: because it's bad for local economies where you're going to volunteer, because it's bad for relations between those people as well, and because it ultimately reinforces bad stereotypes about the people that you're trying to help.
So how does it do all these things?
First we'll talk about the economy.
It's quite obvious that one of the biggest reasons why you see a lot of a lot of like some countries in poverty besides things like imperialism, which we'll get to later, is because they don't have sufficiently developed economies that are able to support their populations where people are able to work a good day's living and make enough money to support themselves and their families.
So the best way in order to ensure development is to make it so that there are jobs that people can work and that's how you actually make a self sustaining economy.
So you don't need constant intervention and you don't need to keep volunteering.
People can support themselves.
So how do you ensure this?
So it's quite obvious that if you give someone a free service, they're obviously going to take that service.
So if you offered to build someone a house for free, obviously they're going to build that house for free.
Here's the problem, what this does.
This takes away on two different levels.
First it takes away from the private sector and the ability of people in the local economy to develop.
So what does this look like?
If you're going to be building a house for somebody for free, suddenly the people who may be supplying those raw goods they aren't going to be able to make money off of that, all the people who would otherwise be getting paid for their labor are unable to sell their labor and make money that way, so those are the first ways in which you're going to get rid of possible economic growth.
The second way in which this happens is it takes away from government sponsoring of these kinds of services.
So even if like so like international volunteering is unique because it's entirely devoid of possible goods and services, things like.
Even if you need to give someone who's homeless house for free, which obviously you should do this, if someone can afford to pay for this kind of construction.
It's it's substitutable by things like the government paying for the services or paying other people provide these services.
But when people go in directly and do these kinds of things for free, which is inherent to international volunteering, that uniquely leads to an economy not able develop.
So this has much wider ramifications than just simply being limited to something like housing, because this is obviously housing, it's quite major.
But this can also do things like english teachers.
This people who have like that kind of skill are going to find it more difficult to find a job.
You can talk about like maybe even like manufacturing medicine to fight malaria.
People who would manufacture those things are now also going to be out of a job.
All of the many areas in which we have volunteering, this is a ubiquitous problem with that specifically.
But next thing I want to talk about is about the relations and stereotypes this propagates.
I think that this has a couple of bad things.
First and foremost, it doesn't lead to the actual creation of bonds in a very positive way.
And the reason that it doesn't do that is because oftentimes people who go there aren't going to be there permanently.
Most people who go to volunteer are only going to do it for a couple of years maybe after college.
So the problem that this has is that the connections that you make with locals are oftentimes only going to be ephemeral and are not going to be all that long lasting.
So this means that you're not actually really genuinely helping a lot of people as far as being a constant guiding force.
So for example, if you're replacing an english teacher that is native to the country, then you're going to be replacing it with someone who's not going to be there after a couple of years.
So this means that ultimately that person is going to be losing that possible guiding force for more years down the line.
But I also additionally think that it's possible that they won't do as good of a job because they're not going to have as much of an in depth understanding of that culture and as much of an in depth understanding of what the actual needs of the community are.
And this goes into the final thing which is about how it propagates bad stereotypes.
About how it propagates stereotypes that people in developing countries like developing parts of the world like africa and countries in africa or southeast asia or other areas need to be held, need to be saved because they're desperate for services and help from the west.
And it's I think it's important to combat these stereotype because it leads to bad policy down the line.
So for all those reasons very proud to propose.