We should cancel the social security tax and we should cancel it immediately, because it is a rights violation.
And it is a rights violation that has no countervailing justification and it is not legitimized by any actual need for it.
So before I get into that, I want to clarify the grounds of what we're discussing here today.
Because I think that the motion is very clear in that it says we should cancel the social security tax, not cancel the FICA tax, so therefore we're perfectly fine defending the status quo with regards to the FICA tax still existing, although albeit at a likely lower rate, in order to collect money for things like medicare and medicaid.
So now that we've established that, let's talk about why social security is problematic and it the tax needs to be ended.
So obviously the social security tax is rights violating.
It's rights violating in the fact that the money that you earn is the result of your work, it's the result of your labor, and a big reason why the state exists in the first place is to ensure the protection of your property and to enable that, by things like whether contracts or police forces and things like that.
The reason the state exist by and large is to preserve the protection of your property, which means that it probably shouldn't take your money away from you, money that is rightfully yours unless it has a pretty good reason for doing so.
So now let's talk about why we don't think that with regards to the social security tax, there is a pretty good reason for doing so.
So the first reason I don't believe I believe that this is true, is because I don't actually think that you can have a right to social security in no way that you could have rights to other things.
So I'm not going to deny that you should have a right to things like your health, right to things like your safety, a right to things like food and shelter.
However, that's not what social security is about.
Social security is essentially just money that you get, a fund that you get as a result of either being just a retiree, or certain kinds of disabilities, or a widow status or other other extenuating circumstances like that.
But by and large it resolves around simply old age, and I don't think the fact that you are simply old, combined with the simply old, actually necessitates that you have a right to this money.
And the reason I think that's true is because I don't think that you can have a right to money.
You can only have a right to certain things, because those are what ultimately impacts your life.
Maybe if you are a senior citizen and you are struggling to provide yourself with healthcare, then you should have the right to medicare.
If you're a senior citizen who is struggling to be able to provide yourself with food, then the government can exist to offer programs to help you with food, something that you have a right to.
But I don't think that you have a right to anyone else's money just in the form of their money, that you could spend in any way you want whatsoever.
So the next the next reason why we should cancel the social security tax is because I don't actually think there's any need for it, and if there is no need to take money from people, you probably shouldn't do that.
So the first reason why there's no need is because oftentimes there's already either alternatives or supplements to social security anyway, in the forms of individual pension plans that come from a lot of different entities.
Oftentimes companies offer pension plans, most government they offer pension plans, a lot of union workers get pension plans, so a lot of people got pension plans.
But additionally, even if there's no pension plans existing, simply oftentimes by responsible saving and smart investing, you can still ensure that you're going to be able to have a reasonable enough amount of savings so you're able to take care of yourself throughout the duration of your life, something that is honestly in a lot of ways pretty doable.
So for all of those reasons it's quite clear that while there is a clear loss of rights when you're taking away money from people, there's no real reason why you have to do it, because you don't have a right to money, you only have a right to certain benefits that are necessary for your survival maybe, and you also oftentimes have other alternatives to social security that don't make its tax collection necessary, it's not the same thing as like police officers or things like that.
So for all of those reasons, we're incredibly proud to cancel the social security tax.