We should protect whistleblowers because protection of whistleblowers is absolutely vital to preservation of public good in a lot of situations.
So I think that that's for starters a pretty good standard of when someone should be like qualified as a whistleblower rather than just somebody who's like leaking corporate secrets.
Because obviously you need to have a line there, you can't just let anyone spill any corporate secrets that's happening but I think that when you're talking about public good or a very clear public interest knows you're circumstances under which you need to make sure that you're protecting whistleblowers because people's livelihoods could be on the line, people's rights could be on the line, people's lives could be on the line, and these are all important circumstances.
Because when you're talking about whistleblowers you could be talking about a wide variety of incredibly important actors.
You could be talking about people who work in the government who have information about widespread and systematic and intentional rights violation in secret.
People like edward snowden who had that information and then had to fear persecution because of that.
You can talk about people who let's say know things about like secret government operations maybe like CIA operations that were like contain horrible instances of misconduct.
Possibly things like torture, toppling democratic regimes, things that are not exactly unheard of and things that the public should be able to know about so that way actions can be held accountable for.
When you're talking about corporations, you could be talking about people who pollute the environment, people who skirt say banking regulations or any kind of regulation, people who do all kinds of messed up things.
These are ways these are actors who are only going to be held accountable if the public knows about it because as long as these things keep being held keep being secret, you are not going to see any change to these actions.
You're going to keep seeing rivers be polluted by corporations, you're going keep seeing governments violate people's rights or possibly take people's lives and these are things that keep happening unless you can actually gather enough public pressure to put an end to that.
So that's why whistleblowing is crucial and that's why you need to protect them because while they're serving a very valuable public service and they're helping society a lot of cases, it can come at great personal cost if you're whistleblowing against the government.
The government can put you in prison, they can try you for treason, they can do all kinds of things to you that are absolutely horrible.
If it's a corporation they could do the next worst thing which is try to take every dime that you own and make sure you are unemployable forever and that's obviously not really good for you.
They're your career and a whole lot of other aspects for you.
So it's important to make sure that people are protected so they don't feel like they have to put their own livelihood or lives at risk just to do a really do something for the public good.
There are certain things that are more important and I feel like the fact that like governments want to protect their secrets because they don't want people to know about them or corporations want to make sure that like people don't like spill their secrets things like that.
That's all fine and good but at the end of the day that shouldn't be a that shouldn't be used as a cover up for immoral actions and when people are acting immorally you need to shine a light on them to make sure that justice can actually happen.
So for all those reasons, we should protect whistleblowers.