We should ban genetically modified crops for two big reasons: first, because of the health impacts and the safety impacts and other impacts they have on people, and secondarily because of the impacts that this can have on the food itself, the food like food availability itself.
So let's start by talking about the impacts that genetic modification has on food.
So, obviously, right now, there still isn't a concrete scientific understanding about if there are harms of genetically modified food.
However, that isn't the same thing as saying that genetically modified food is certainly safe.
And I think that it is definitely very reasonable to look at genetically modified food with a good deal of skepticism given that oftentimes, when humans modify something, it takes them a long time to figure out the long-term consequences.
Because oftentimes if, for example, like something ends up becoming carcinogenic or something can cause a long-term health problem or similar things like that, oftentimes the risks of the foods that we put in our mouth or other things we put in our body, the risk might not show up for a longer period of time.
But I think beyond just simply the direct harms that can be attributable to a genetic modification of food, I think that more realistically, it is the absence of of certain kinds of elements in genetically modified food that are going to make it more likely that people are less healthy.
In particular, the absence of essential nutrients, I think, are oftentimes more likely to be absent from genetically modified foods.
And the big reason for this is because the primary concern when food is being genetically modified is a few full.
First, they want to make sure that it lives as well as possible, that it's going to be immune from diseases and other kinds of pests, so it could have like like pesticides and things like that.
Second of all, they want it to be as big as possible.
They want to improve yield as much.
And third, they want to improve yield as much as possible.
So, what ultimately ends up happening here is you prioritize the food's esthetic appearances, and you prioritize its size, and you prioritize its yield and it's livability, but a oftetimes these things come at expense of the actual ability of that food to maintain its nutrients and, most importantly, it's ability of the food to maintain a basic good taste.
This is like the real reason that like if you go to a supermarket in italy and you buy a , sorry, a tomato, you're going to realize that the like the the tomato that you have there is just going to taste so much better than the like like fist-size watery like blobs that we have here in america.
The reason is because the genetic modification process is just designed to kind of magnify yield.
It's basically like a profit grabbing move, and obviously like it's good in terms of like you can feed more people with it, but I definitely think that you're losing something in terms of its nutrients, in terms of its taste, and possibly in terms of long-term health as well.
But beyond that, I also think that there is a problem when it comes to like the food stability itself, because genetic diversity in any kind of organism, particularly in food, though, is very important.
Because it makes cause without a genetic diversity, you're much more likely to be impacted by like things like climate change, you're more likely to be impacted by pests and diseases that prop up, like modified like evolving diseases or things like that, all kinds of things that could result in mass casualties amongst crops essentially, because rather because since you don't have a diversity in which like only some of your crops will be affected but not others, when you have like uniform crops, it makes it a lot more likely that things are therefore going to spread amongst all of the crops and affect all of the crops.
So all of that's really bad.
So for those reasons, we should ban genetically modified crops.