Now, casinos don't bring more harm than good.
There's first, nothing really wrong with gambling, I think it's something that people have the right to do with their money and it doesn't, I don't think, cause all that much of a harm.
A lot of the harms that they may talk about are, I think, not directly associated with gambling.
And I think that secondarily, even if that's not true, having a a legal entity like a casino to have associating with gambling is ultimately better than it being an unregulated, under the table industry.
So, let's start by talking about gambling.
Because I think honestly that people have a right to gamble, so you should give them a legal opportunity to do it in a place like a casino.
And I think that people have a right to do it because it's people's money, and people should have the right to, if they work hard for their money, they own that money, it's theirs, they can do what they want with it.
In the same way in which you can decide what you want to purchase with your money, I see no reason why you can't wager your money, risk your money in a game, for more money just like I within the grasp of your freedom of choice.
I think particularly this is important, because in a lot of ways it's not even philosophically distinct from other perfectly legal activities, like investing in the stock market or in investment in general.
Investing is just putting more money up front in for the purpose of getting money.
The only difference is maybe to some extent it's a calculated risk, but sometimes that's the same of gambling too, like poker is a game of skill in a lot of ways, so this is a really, in a lot of ways, a hypocritical standard and an unfair one.
If people want to gamble with their money, why not, that's fine, they can do what they want with it.
But I think that additionally, it's important to recognize that gambling spending your money up for gambling isn't necessarily even an irrational decision, because a lot of people just enjoy it.
People enjoy playing poker, people enjoy playing blackjack, maybe people even enjoy playing the slots, it's like relaxing to them, or there's a thrill from gambling.
You know what, those are subjective preferences and there's no reason why we should decide what people there's there's no reason why we should care about what people value in their lives, what people see as the value of the money that they have.
So that's fine.
But even if that isn't true, I still think that casinos don't do more harm than good, because without casinos you would still have gambling, it would just be black market gambling.
And I think that this is quite likely to be exist.
We already see the in the status quo oftentimes a lot of under the table gambling.
Internet gambling is a huge huge market already.
And this is important because you it's not necessarily as safe, you don't know, there's not as maybe maybe as much as like security, there's also not as many like maybe mechanisms who check against like cheating or misleading of the people who are involved in betting their money.
And finally you can't even like profit off of the industry via taxation, so you definitely you can't.
It's like a good a casino is oftentimes a good source of revenue for government, so you definitely want it to be legal if people are going to want to do this anyway.
Additionally, I also think that this pushes people into less dubious but similar practices as alternatives, like you could see things like daily fantasy football, which is in a lot of ways very similar, people can use that as a substitute for gambling.
So I think that and that's oftentimes worse in a lot of ways.
So I really think that it's important that you take a look at this in this totality that not only is it really not so bad that people spend their money in the way that they choose, but without casinos, gambling just will happen anyway, but you'll just see it in a much less safe way.
So for those reasons, very proud to oppose.