Boarding schools should be abolished because they're exclusionary, they deter social ability, and because they're quite bad for children as well and they allow parents to skirt their parental obligations.
So let's start by talking about why boarding schools are bad for society.
Keep in mind that most boarding schools are expensive and prestigious institutions.
Like a lot of prominent examples are like eton in england.
Eton is known as like one of the like most like like the bougiest boarding schools in a world where like they send everyone to cambridge and oxford and other places like that.
You have places in america too that function in similar ways.
You have military academies that also do these kinds of things designed to instill these like archaic puritan era values into the youth and things like that and I think that in a lot of ways this is incredibly problematic because what they oftentimes amount to are essentially theater systems for the youth of aristocrats into the so called social elites in society.
And the way that this often works is that if you had like maybe family members who went these prestigious boarding schools, or you have you're just someone who has a large degree of financial resources and can be a donor, you're able to secure spots in these like prestigious high schools or middle schools or even lower schools and things like that and this puts people at a disadvantage.
It gives people a competitive advantage as far as getting into colleges and future earnings and things like that.
I think that it's very bad because it also takes away from investment in public schools and it takes away the need for wealthy people to be reliant on the public school system.
So it also makes it more likely that it's going the public school system is seen as almost a second or a lower class system rather than something that's supposed to serve the public and I think that's a big problem and one of the biggest things that can keep social mobility evident in a society but the second reason why I think that boarding schools are very bad is I think that they're bad for children as well and I think that they're bad in a couple of ways.
First, I think that they're bad in that they they harm the bond that children are supposed to have with their parents and I think that the idea that you can just the bond especially when you're growing up, the bond to the most important people in your life that they can just like ship you off to a boarding school and leave you there and that you're going to have the same kinds of experiences, the same kind of like emotional experiences and things like that, is absolutely ludicrous because when you go to places especially like if it's like a military academy, but most boarding schools are like this is well, things that are oftentimes evident there is you're going to have rather restricted freedoms, you're going to be in dormitories full time that are going to be very strict, you're not going to be able to have like all that much freedom to like go out and do things like that, you're not going to be able to just like go out in the society and learn, you're not going to be able to have the same experiences growing up with just like like friends and things like that, in like a normal environment.
It's oftentimes going to be seen as like a very isolating environment.
You're not going to get the same skills of interacting.
You're not going to be able to interact with your parents who are supposed to be like very very important you and things like that and I think that all of these things deprive children of their childhoods in a lot of ways and can stunt their like emotional development and their social growth which is just as important as any kind of academic or intellectual growth and this is also just a way for parents to skirt parental obligations in that you can make raising your child essentially somebody else's problem and I think that's ridiculous.
Like you could have kids are you cannot have kids that's your choice, but if you're going to have kids then you should be prepared to meet those obligations, to raise them, to be a constant influence in their lives not just send them out somewhere else and hope they're going to turn out okay.
I don't think that's a good way to actually effectively raise the future generation in society.
So for all those reasons, boarding schools should be abolished.