We should not ban naturopathy and I want to start by talking about what we can do because there's a lot of things that we can do short of actually fully banning something.
We can obviously regulate it and we can regulate in a lot of ways.
We can regulate it so that they can't maybe call themselves formal doctors, we can regulate it so that maybe like kids don't have the same level of access to it because we don't think that it's safe for them.
There's all kinds of regulations and the specifics are that important but that's not what this debate is about.
This is a debate about whether a fully grown consenting adult in the best of circumstances given the facts and the information can't make their own choices about what they do with their own medicine.
And I think that this is obviously a situation where you should err on the side of individual rights make their own medical choices and you should not therefore ban naturopathy in its entirety.
So I want to start by talking about what are some of the legitimate reasons why somebody may want to pursue naturopathy.
It may first be because of spiritual or religious preferences that somebody has that favor specific kinds of medicine over others and that's that's that's a view that people are obviously entitled to do and it's their right to have and that's fine.
Further people may be mistrustful of traditional medicine for whatever reasons.
Maybe they're a conspiracy theorist, maybe they just don't trust doctors because maybe some treatment that they had in the past was botched.
There's all kinds of reasons that people have and that can be personal and that's fine.
So that was our first the reasons why somebody may want naturopathy.
Next I want to talk about why it's legitimate choice to make people a right that people have the choice to make because obviously there are some things that you can regulate if people are acting off of inexact information or it's a coercive situation or whatever but oftentimes medical decisions may not necessarily function this way.
If you're getting medical decisions generally it's a more rational decision it's something that you think about in advance it's not like this spur of the moment kind of thing.
You usually contemplate it a little bit more but beyond that there's also just like a basic right to like pursue medical treatments the way in which you choose like if you want to get an abortion you should have that right, if you want to get some kind of surgery or not get some kind of surgery you should have that right.
So that's all fine but at the very base of this the the the worst extent of this is that maybe you could die if you end up getting naturopathy like the worst case scenario is that naturopathy means that you're not going to get cured and you're going to die if it's a particularly extreme case but even in that case I don't know why it's the government's place to decide on behalf of a person, how they should live their life because if you're like a spiritual person and you'd rather die early but but die in line with your spiritual beliefs than live a longer life going against what you believe like deeply, then that should be your choice to make as an individual like it really doesn't matter to society honestly to be like like real talk here if like any individual person dies.
It's a tragedy if people die outside of their own control, it's a tragedy of people die if they don't want to die, but if somebody like is like like prepared if they're like internally accepting and ready then that should really be like a choice that people can make on like on their own and like obviously like there's a lot of things like like you want to make sure that like you're preventing things from like suicides and things like that but like in the best of scenarios when it's like a decision that people are making on their own medical treatments this is fine, especially given that most situations aren't nearly as extreme as that case when most of the time there really isn't a cost.
So for all those reasons don't ban naturopathy.