We should not have mandatory community service because it's an immoral thing to do, it's going to be really bad for certain segments of the population, and it's also entirely unnecessary and is really going to create bad incentives as far as government policy and management of public like things are concerned.
So let's start by talking about why mandatory community service is an immoral thing to do.
And the first thing is that it's basically slavery.
Now obviously, isn't like the worst form of slavery, there's like far worse things that you can do.
But at the end of the day, that's basically what this is.
You're forcing people against their will to do work they probably don't want to do for no money at all.
And why are you doing this?
People don't owe the government any more than what they already give.
People give money to fund goods and services, people give the government money, people obey laws and things like that.
People give up a lot of their freedoms to the government.
It's not like there's just like people are just endlessly mooching off the government.
People give a lot to the government.
So why should they have to give even more to the government?
The government doesn't like do all that like the government does what it does but people give money to that, people give their support already to the government.
There's really no moral basis to justify this kind of wage slavery that would exist.
Where people would just be performing unpaid labor against their will.
It's kind of ridiculous.
But beyond that I also think this is going to be really bad for poor people in society.
Because the people who are going to have the highest cost of this, the people who are going to get like screwed over the most by being forced to take time to do unpaid labor are people who don't really have a lot of time to take off from work.
People who need to like stay at home and take care of their family, people who don't really have a lot of disposable time and disposable income, and those are the people who are going to get hit the most by this when they have to give up some of that time and take take that time to do work for the government that's going to be unpaid.
So I think that's going to be pretty harmful for them and that that could be like a real cost for a lot of people.
Missing one day of work for one person could be the difference between whether or not their family eats that day.
And that's a big deal and we shouldn't underscore that.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is why this incentivizes bad practices by governments.
Because I think that at the end the day, all that's going to happen is if you have mandatory community service is things that would have been happening anyway that the government had to spend money for are now going to happen for free.
So this means that instead of paying public employees to make sure that streets are clean, it's going to try to rely on community service for that.
Instead of paying people to work at soup kitchens and homeless shelters the government's going to try to make sure is that like people are just going to volunteer to do this for free.
And I think that's an active problem because the government should be funding these kind of things.
The government should be funding the services to the fullest extent that it can, that it would want people doing community service for.
Because if someone has if you have to mandate that people are doing community service for and if you need people to do it by law, then it sounds like it's something that's probably important.
And if it's something that's important, then the government should be spending money on that.
There's plenty of stupid things the government spends money on.
It gives tax cuts to corporations, it spends billion, trillion dollars on the military, there's plenty of things that the government can like take a little haircut on in order to prioritize spending on community service related things.
So for all those reasons do not have mandatory community service spending.