We should not have a pollution tax because a pollution tax is simply not a radical enough stance in to fight climate change and to fight the harms of pollution.
We need to have strict caps on pollution bans on certain kings of pollution altogether not simply allowing our our grounds to be polluted and our airs to be toxic in terms for a little bit of money.
So let's start by talking about why a harder stance is necessary and the reality of this is several fold.
So first and foremost, pollution is horrible because it it's it it constitutes a clear disregard for human life when you allow toxins to just be released by corporations into the atmosphere, when you allow our water to be polluted, and things like that it can literally lead to people being sick or dying whether it's from things like lead poisoning or things like mercury poisoning or lung cancer because the air isn't even safe to breathe.
These are all horrible things that aren't there's no there shouldn't just be a tolerable level of these kinds of things.
You need to outright eliminate them and seek alternatives and the only way in which you're actually going to pressure corporations who do all this polluting to actually change their tactics and truly internalize the costs that they're doing is by making it by telling them no you can't do this anymore you can't put your profits over the literal human lives of people.
But beyond that there's also clear harms that this has to climate change.
We don't want to just have like we don't want to just have like more money in our pockets when climate change hits, when our cities are flooding, when we have widespread famine because of food insecure food shortages when all of these things happen you want to just have more money to combat the problems, you want to actually have been taking proactive stance steps fighting for solutions for years and years beforehand and this is why it's required that we make sure that we ban greenhouse gases in the first place and we don't just have a bigger pile of money to deal with the after effects.
So why do I think that that a pollution tax is also going to have an incredibly low impact in reality?
And there are several reasons for this.
First because I think that we're talking about some of the wealthiest corporations in the world that are predominantly are polluters.
If you tell exxon mobil that it has to pay a little bit more money in taxes in terms for dumping toxins into our earth into our planet, I don't think they're going to care that much because they're one of the wealthiest corporations in the world.
Oftentimes corporations that pollute our atmosphere are hugely profitable.
National natural resource companies and like resource extraction manufacturing and things like that are hugely hugely profitable energies industries and a ton of these companies are some of the most profitable in the world.
So simply telling them that they have to pay more money is not actually going to deter them from polluting, it's just going to mean that you're going to have a little bit more money to do things like that.
And there's no even guarantee that the government's going to use this money to actually combat the affects of pollution.
In most cases, given the political system that we live in, a lot of this money is probably going to go towards other things.
It may go towards the military, it may go towards unrelated things like building a fucking wall on the mexican border, there's all kinds of stupid things that money gets used for in a lot of countries so there's really no guarantee they are actually going even solve any problem with this money in the first place.
So for all those reasons, you shouldn't just tax pollution, you need to ban it.