We should not fight for tibetan independence, because at the end of the day, the cost that that would that fight would incur are simply not worth the benefits of of democracy.
So, for starters I want to be clear that, this isn't necessarily a discussion about whether democracy is good or bad, or even a discussion about whether or not the tibetan people are deserving of of independence.
I think that, in a lot of ways they probably are, but I think that it's also important to recognize political and diplomatic realities that surround conflicts, and about, whether or not, you could actually engage in this in a peaceful way.
And I think that this is absolutely key, because when you look at examples like the arab spring, when you look at, like, war and devastation in places like syria, there are definitely things that are far worse than status quo suppression, that is existing in tibet.
If you see an escalation of suppression, an escalation of violence, even if it's not as extreme as some places in the middle east, that is still something that I think is, on average, going to make the average life of someone in tibet worse.
So, this is key, and I think that china is definitely going to be very unhappy about this fight for tibetan independence, and I think that the reason for this is that, whether it's full independence, or even trying to grant it ever greater regional autonomy, I think that this is an existential threat to the existence of the chinese state, as it currently is.
And the reason for this is because, while han chinese people may be like the vast majority, of the, like, one billion population of china, it' they're certainly not like just like a monolith in that state, there's a whole lot of cultural diversity in there.
Like, obviously tibet has its own language and culture, but there's also like mongolia, you even look at places like hong kong, where they speak cantonese which is a distinct language from mandarin, and this is really important, because if you start to give more and more freedom to each individual group, like tibet, there's no reason why other groups are also going to keep wanting more and more independence, keep wanting more and more regional autonomy, and what this does is it makes china, as an economic-political actor, a whole lot weaker.
So obviously, china isn't going to like this, and china definitely looks to this as a threat.
It's why it's the same thing with like inner mongolia, and like, taiwan like these aren't this isn't a problem that's unique to taiwan so I really don't think that china is going to be very happy about this.
So, here's the problem: so this means that, whether your means of retaliation are going to be like economic things, like boycotts, or maybe even violent actions, I think that you're going to be met with harsh suppression for the lives of the average person in tibet.
So, the average person in tibet is probably going to see their freedoms restricted even more, they're probably going to see much more of a police presence, they're going to see less of an ability to practice, like, maybe their religion freely, or all these kinds of things, because there's going to be much more of a threat to to the china.
Now, I want to look at this as a, like, a counterfactual, because I think that, when you're not necessarily fighting for independence, and you're only fighting against human rights violations themselves, I think that that's an area where you're much more likely to see a possibility for progress, because I think that that is a much more palpable thing for china to deal with.
I think that it's much more reasonable to say: china wor you should stop like oppressing people , of of minorities in your country, rather than saying: you should completely give them freedom, and lose all the benefits that you get from this.
And I think that, if you make like strategic or in like, like good strategic and tactical choices, as far as these kinds of things, I think that it's definitely possible that you could achieve more progress this way.
So for those reasons, proud to say we should not fight for independence.