We should not fight global warming because global warming isn't really that big of a deal.
Nothing we can't solve.
And because ultimately the sacrifices to our lifestyles that would be accompanied with actually fighting global warming are pretty major sacrifices that we shouldn't make people take if they don't want to take you, because people should be allowed to live their lives in different ways and, you know, not everyone likes having clean rivers or breathable air, things like that.
So, let's start by talking about why I think that global warming isn't actually that big of a deal.
So, the first reason for this is because a lot of things like, for example, the possibility of like food insecurity because food can't grow at certain temperatures or like changing weather patterns make farming and livability more difficult, all these kinds of things.
I think that a lot of these threats are incredibly overblown.
We already have things like we already have the ability to genetically engineer food.
We can make it grow in different temperatures.
We can build things like levees.
We know how to drain water.
We can rebuild we can build up barrier islands and things like that.
You can move to other places, like maybe some places are going to become more desert-like or too hot but other, colder places are going to become more livable.
Like canada has more land than america does but you can't live in most of canada, things like that.
So you can move to different places as they got warmer, things like that.
And the places that you can't exactly moved out of, like major cities, you just make protections for these kinds of things.
Obviously that's going to cost money.
I mean it's going to cost money to fight global warming too.
You're spending money either way, so you can spend money this way too.
And I think that this is a pretty reasonable way to to deal with global warming.
So not so much preemptively fight global warming, but try to like deal with consequences of it.
And I think that that's much more fair, because fighting global warming would be incredibly, incredibly taxing on the way that we live our lifestyles.
Things like meat consumption probably would have to end outright.
We'd probably have to all be vegetarians to reasonably combat global warming.
We'd have to put extremely harsh limits on a lot of factories and things like that.
We'd have to make it it'd be a lot more expensive so a lot of cost of living would go up.
Public transportation would have to be completely redone in a lot of countries, like america.
These aren't things like eating or like power and electricity, like all of these things would have to be done in entirely different ways.
The technology doesn't really exist right now to do these kinds of things as effectively as we want to to scale.
So, a lot of sacrifices to lifestyles would come.
And I think that's pretty bad because given that global warming, as I already proved isn't actually going to be that bad, why should we spend a whole lot of money or change all of our lifestyles on things that isn't going to be all that big of a deal?
It's like important to note that different people want to live their lives in different ways.
Some people don't want to give up eating meat and that's fine.
Some people think that polar bears are stupid.
Maybe they have the right to do that.
So for all of those reasons, we should not fight global warming.