We should ban casinos because casinos basically allow profit to be extracted from people in a pretty coercive way and they also facilitate a lot of social dis utility in terms of like crime that is often affiliated with casinos so let's start by talking about why casinos are just bad and they're something that we should regulate anyway.
And I think that the basic point here is that we paternalize people a lot of the time when it comes to do with like their money and making reasonable and rational decisions.
We limit what people can spend their money on, if we think that it's something that can be like coercive to them.
Especially when it in it's in terms of like the accuracy of the product that they're being sold on.
Like literally, the consumer financial protection bureau by and large exists to make sure that like accurate information is being prevailed to consumers and like our regulatory agencies around the world primarily exists for this kind of a purpose.
And I think that's a big deal because casinos are basically inherently inaccurate in the kind of product they sell.
They basically sell a fantasy picture of you're by random chance sometimes going to win some money.
You spend some money and maybe by random chance you're going to win some money.
But by and large it's not really like that.
Because I think that this evokes an image of like sometimes you're going to win and sometimes you're going to lose, but the reality is that almost certainly you're going to lose.
Because, you're probably going to lose because oftentimes it's like rigged to make sure that you're more likely to lose.
And that's why I like the house usually wins.
Whether it's in terms of like some kind of a card game, or whether it's like a card game or like a slot machine or something like that.
It set up in a way, and that's like the base of their industry, to be profit maximizing.
If you are going to like win like as like if you're going to win roughly like an equivalent amount of money that you're spending and it's just like a fun game that you're playing, then casinos couldn't really exist as multi billion dollar like empires basically.
They make billions and billions of dollars because the money that gets put into it isn't the same.
And that's why I feel like gambling is almost like a bad term.
Because gambling really is, it's like almost more like a lottery, to be honest, in that like you throw money at it and there's like a small small chance you're going to win.
And I think that's a problem because like it's basically selling like a false narrative and allows like the economic extraction of a lot of people.
But also casinos are oftentimes affiliated with crime and that's like a pretty bad thing too.
Casinos tend to like bring in a lot of like problematic things.
So like they tend to be associated heavily with like heavy alcohol use which often times can be associated with crimes and like violence or property damage or things like that, oftentimes casinos can be associated with drug use and things like that, they can also oftentimes be associated with prostitution and things looked out as well.
Like this is just obviously true when you look at places like las vegas.
So that kind of crime is oftentimes ushered in by the existence of casinos as well.
Because it's basically like a signaling to like more unsavory vices.
So for all those reasons we should ban casinos.