We should increase government regulation because generally in most cases government regulation is a good thing that makes sure that more socially desirable outcomes are actually happening.
So let's start by establishing why on a basic level there is just a huge need for government regulation in the first place.
And this comes down to the idea that individual people and corporations and businesses are not self-regulating actors in the ways a lot of people like to believe and the reason for this is because individuals are oftentimes greedy.
Individuals have a tendency to put their own desires or the desires of others and they may not do what's best for the collective and this is oftentimes amplified particularly with corporations which put pursuit of profit oftentimes over the pursuit of actually helping people, and there's a lot of clear examples of this.
So a really good example is something like the cigarette companies like big tobacco where everyone knows what where the tobacco companies before everyone else knew about the harms that smoking did to people and they often times didn't share that research with people in fact they funded research that distorted this truth and tried to prove the opposite just because they wanted to keep making money off people buying cigarettes.
That's just one example.
Another example could be something like exxon mobil where the LA times did like fantastic investigative journalism work on this where LA where exxon mobil for decades like well into like the eighties and nineties already knew that climate change was going to have big impacts on human activities and that it was a problem and exxon mobil starts in its own drilling operations planning for impacts of climate change and yet it was also one of the leading funders of climate change denial politically and it funded climate change denial research for public consumption despite privately operating in different ways, there is obviously even more examples.
You can look at gun manufacturers and the NRA who put their own profits off of selling millions and millions of guns to people over the lives of people that are associated with mass shootings.
That's a problem as well.
It goes deeper than that as well though.
You can look at how like whether it's like student loans or finance in general that tries to put its own profit incentives amongst the average individuals where you look at recent like drops in the stock market for example a lot of that came from fear that because the average people's wages were going up that would mean that there's a trade off with investor profits and we live in a society that tends to like cater investor profits in the stock market over like actual wages for people and it just shows you how fundamentally at odds like powerful people in society can be with the average person in society and that's where government regulation comes in because government regulation can exist as a corrective measure for all of that.
Whether it's government regulation that can regulate guns or put a tax on pollution or maybe or strongly regulate cigarettes to make sure that they're people know how unsafe they are all of these kinds of regulations while may not be like nice to businesses in like their own minds can be necessary for actually helping a public good for making people safer for making people healthier and for making sure that people aren't being exploited for making sure that sally mae can't charge a ten percent student loan rate because you're desperate to go to college and they know that you can't do anything else because like your your fucked there's no there's no alternative you have to go to college if you want to have good career prospects but it's so expensive that you have to pay for it somehow so they can charge you whatever interest rates they want.
You need government regulation on these kinds of things.
The same with something like payday loans with like usury rates and things like that.
All of these things are incredibly necessary and government regulation can be a powerful way to make sure that exploitation and profits aren't put over people.
So for all those reasons we should increase government regulation.