We should abandon coal mining because coal mining is incredibly destructive to the environment and that's very very bad.
So let's start by talking about how coal mining is destructive to the environment because I think that it manifests in two ways.
So the first is the way in which the extraction itself happens.
When you're mining for coal the way that it works is you take a mountain or you dig underground, you drill, you take in all of these chemicals, you disrupt all the local wildlife, you literally rip like the like rocks out from the like ground itself, you pollute the environment with like the trucks that come out sometimes depending on like the way in which you're extracting you could be like clearing an entire mountain like destroying it and everything that lives there.
So by and large, the extraction process itself tends to be pretty destructive.
Beyond the extraction process being pretty destructive, there's also the way in which coal is used itself.
Obviously coal is used by burning coal and when you burn coal you see that like you look at coal and you see that it's like incredibly incredibly dirty.
So that's why like when you think of your stereotypical image of a coal miner it's that person with like the dirt and grit all over them after they like went underground into the tunnels.
All of that soot, that dirt, and the grit and all those kinds of things, when you burn coal to get that energy all of that is going back into the atmosphere and that has incredibly profound consequences.
So on the most basic level even before you get into anything about climate change, you're just putting harmful chemicals into the atmosphere.
Most people like being able to breathe the air that they walk in without having to risk like some kind of like asthma attack or developing lung cancer, something like that.
But if you're like in a lot of if you're in an area where there's like coal burning happening nearby it's a lot of harmful chemicals that get released and harmful things that are going into the air can now end up in your body and that's really really bad.
But besides all that, there's obviously a huge impact that coal mining has on the environment because when coal is burned it releases a ton of COTwo into the atmosphere which contributes to climate change in really significant ways.
The ways that it can impact is like by starters like the earth just warming which results in shifts in the basic habitability of some areas.
So if you live on the coast which most of humanity lives on the coast you're probably not going to live on the coast much longer.
You're going to be living under water because when like ice caps melt, when widespread flooding events happen like like hurricanes or like rain storms or things like that that result and widespread flooding, or just like storm surges from like things like that, all of these things are probably going to result in all of that stuff being destroyed.
So widespread flooding is probably going to be a problem.
Besides that, there's also going to be increased climate variation that is a result of winter that is the result of our global warming.
So you're going to see much more extremes.
You're going to see the hottest summers on record and some of the coldest winters on record.
You're going to see so like in boston we had the longest stretch in history of sub like twenty like sub like single digit weather or whatever around like late december or early january just this past year and a lot of that could possibly be influenced by climate change and then a week later you go from like zero degree weather to like fifty degree weather which is like this huge temperature swing and these things happen because you get more extremes.
Or likewise like large parts of the middle east may become uninhabitable because the temperature is going to become even more extreme during the hottest times of the year to the point where it's not even livable.
Obviously food not even getting started on food which isn't really going to be able to be grown if all those things happen.
So obviously, coal mining has a whole slew of problems.
So for all those reasons, we should abandon coal mining.