We should keep using AI because AI is a great way to expand the boundaries of human knowledge and to also make a lot of basic everyday human problems a lot easier to solve, and those are undeniably good things.
So to start: one of the basic problems of a whole lot of issues in human societies is is like the reality of scarcity of resources and services.
If everybody had food, if everybody had shelter and clean water and access to good healthcare, that would obviously solve most problems in the world.
And the reality of why this can't happen is because of like a finite scarcity that exists.
And I think in a lot of ways AI gets us ever and ever closer to overcoming these barriers.
Whether it's like a really basic thing, like you want to travel from point a to point b, and now with maybe possibly like self driving cars that are powered by an artificially intelligent computer that can successfully navigate, now it's going to be a lot cheaper for you to get from point a to point b.
Or maybe you look at like the work that like IBM watson has been doing with like a lot of like assisting doctors with diagnoses and medical help and things like that, which can like increase quality, not just like decreasing prices, but also increasing quality of treatment in a lot of ways.
Because computers are oftentimes capable of spotting trends, spotting patterns, getting access to immediate like wealth of information with like instantaneous recall and like a lower probability of errors and things like that.
All makes it so that computers can be incredibly powerful at actually helping humans attain a whole variety of goals.
And of course those things are really really useful.
You want to make sure that things are cheaper.
Whether it's the fact that like food is cheaper because it can be like it could be like farmed in more intelligent ways by like computers and by like computers, or medicine or travel or any kind of industry, artificial intelligence can help in all these variety of ways.
And I think that really the only it's not like like like a luddites who don't think that technology is very good or whatever, I think a lot of ways it's really alarmist and naive to say that like you can fight for people's jobs.
Like: " oh well like it's going to be really bad when like retail industry dies and like truck driving industries die. "
And things like that.
Like over time societies have to evolve but it's going to be better for everybody.
Because everything is going to be cheaper, people are going to have a wider access to goods and services, the higher quality of care in a lot of ways.
All of these things make societies better.
And sure, things aren't going to be like perfect if you just do nothing in don't actually deal with a new reality that AI is going to usher in, but if you look at it with a cool head, in a logical head, and you realize that yes societies are going to be different now, but society is going to be better and you can legislate in different ways, craft newer policies for a new age maybe, like maybe like like for starters expanding job training retraining, expanding social safety nets and things like that.
I think that like a lot of the perceived problems of artificial intelligence start to go away and you're only really left with a lot of the benefits.
So for all those reasons, we should keep the use of AI.