We should ban pipeline transportation because pipeline transportation leads to a lot of problems.
It leads to a lot of environmental problems, it increases our reliance on fossil fuels and it often has a lot of bad social consequences as well in addition the environmental consequences.
So let's start by just talking about what are some of the like broader impacts of of pipeline transportation.
And I think what oil pipelines are designed to do is they're designed to make natural gas and oil as cheap as transporting it as cheap as possible.
So in theory that may sound good.
Nobody likes to pay four dollars a gallon for their gasoline in a country like america.
But these kinds of things come with costs.
Because the lower oil the lower the price of oil is the lower the prices of gas is and things like that, the more you're going to not really care about being energy efficient.
The more you're just going to waste a lot of like energy on like on like cooling or heating your house, on things like that, on your car, and more like perniciously, the less emphasis there's going to be on transitioning to greener technologies as an alternative.
Because it simply isn't going to matter as much because when oil is so cheap there's not really that much of an impetus to to change to better alternatives like green technologies.
So oil pipelines that make oil cheaper are a direct problem for the advancement of green technology and all of the problems that will come with climate change can partly be to blame for that.
So by banning pipeline transportation you make oil more expensive and that's really good for the entire world.
The next thing is oil pipelines themselves are oftentimes riddled with problems directly in like the more direct environmental consequences that they have.
There's there's oftentimes tons of leaks in oil pipelines and these things can go on for like basically like like thousands and thousands of miles.
They can go from like northern canada to like louisiana.
Like they basically cover entire swaths of like continents.
So these things are huge.
They're not getting inspected constantly, they're not like being put in with the best technology, it's usually these companies that wanna just like create a cheap tube.
So they're not really oftentimes all that well.
And moreover, people don't really care if there's leaks.
The like corporations don't care if like there's like some random like oil dripping into like the ecosystem in like nebraska or montana or wherever.
So oftentimes there is like a ton of leaks.
There is in fact like it's usually just kind of like a regular an expected thing that when you have these oil pipeline they're going to leak there's going to be these occasional problems and that can result in a lot of environmental consequences.
It can result in destruction of like natural habitats, it can make it harder for like things like animal migrations, it could like poison drinking waters and things like that, and that's like just from the oil.
The process of constructing these pipelines themselves can oftentimes cause a lot of additional problems as well.
The other thing is that there is a tendency to do this in a really racist way and the reason for that is because nobody wants an oil pipeline in your backyard.
It's one of those classic not in my back yard things.
If you're like some bougie person who's living in a big house, you want cheap oil for your you want like cheap gas for your car but you don't want the oil pipeline to be in your backyard.
So where these pipelines go?
They tend to go like through more disadvantaged areas where they can just kind of like place the pipelines there without having these people complain as much.
So that's why you see like the protests at standing rock for example, or other indigenous communities, where these kinds of things have been problems.
Because generally they try to put pipelines in places where there's where the where they don't really care about the costs that it's going to have.
If it's poisoning somebody's drinking water, if it's poisoning somebody's environment then they don't really then they're going to put it towards like oftentimes more disadvantaged communities places.
So for all those reasons we should ban oil pipelines.