We should not have a carbon tax.
Instead we should have hard caps on carbon and not allow anyone to put out carbon in excess of that.
What this is debate is really about is what is a better way to discourage things that are bad, namely destroying the environment by polluting it with carbon and causing climate change.
Is it better to use economic incentives to discourage companies from doing this or is it better to use the letter of the law and actually legally bar people from doing this?
And I think it's clearly better that you want to legally bar people from doing it if you actually want these to be effective measures that are going to help anyone at all.
So why do I think this is true?
I think that this is obviously true because when you're talking about the primary actors that are putting carbon out into the atmosphere you're talking about rather well off corporations.
On you're talking about oil companies, you're talking about like heavy manufacturing, drilling, like all kinds of things like that.
These tend to be really profitable industries, industries that have wide profit margins and are like oftentimes highly populated in like fortune five hundred companies let's say.
So that's incredibly important because this means that if all you need if the only price of these companies in order to keep doing what they're doing and keep polluting, is simply to pay more in taxes, it's probably something they'll be able to do anyway.
It'll be able to do it in their sleep.
Sure, they'll lobby against it, they'll complain, they'll say it's bad for the economy, it's bad for business, it's bad for your like your job blah blah blah, but in the end of the day you're not really going to be hurting their profit margins all that much given all the money they're going to be making.
So I think that's a really big problem because it allows companies to keep polluting, keep doing what they're doing, without actually solving the problem, while on the flip side it's far more effective to use legal caps in order to actually enforce this.
Why?
Because when you actually prevent a company from polluting, when you put a cap on the amount of carbon dioxide they can put into the atmosphere and you can put that cap at whatever level is deemed safe, then you can actually make sure that active steps are being taken to combat climate change, to combat the degradation of our environment.
And that's incredibly important because when push comes to shove, when you actually wanna like you wanna like have proactive solutions to combating climate change.
You don't want to just have a pile of money that you can use to combat the after affects.
So you don't want to do is raise money in taxes, which like say when a city is flooding or something like that or a hurricane hits like porto rico or texas or florida, you don't want to just like be able to have more money to pass this huge aid package.
You want to have actually been dealing with the problem in the first place.
You wanna actually try to combat these problems before they're happening, which is a much more efficient and effective way of actually doing this.
So for all those reasons we should not have a carbon tax, we should have a carbon cap.