Right of asylum is not absolute because security threats can override the right to asylum and economic welfare concerns of your own people can also override asylum concerns.
So I want to first talk about the burden that the other the opposition team has in this round because it's important to note that absolute means that defending that the right of asylum being absolute means that you have to take in everyone and that this is a hard and fast legal principle that is unshakable.
So if we show you that in some circumstances it is important to not respect the right of asylum, not in all cases but in some cases, then this means that the right of asylum is not.
So let's start by talking about the security concerns.
I think that there's obviously a lot of important security concerns you could have particularly when you're talking about asylum because while it's unfortunate, a lot of the people who are seeking asylum may not have a whole lot of ways in which they can actually prove that they are in a security threat.
A lot of the ways in which of like prior employment records, birth certificates, organizations you may or you may have been a part of, things like that.
Basic elements of background checks to ensure security a lot of these things become and this documentation becomes hard to obtain if you live in a post war if you live in like a war torn society and all these things are unfortunate security checks are nevertheless important because even if it's only a couple of people amongst the millions of people that you would admit were the like that are going to be a problem the result is oftentimes far worse.
First, because if there's one security breach that could lead to a bombing which results in dozens maybe even hundreds of casualties, that's something that's very very bad and that's something that the state has a duty to prevent but additionally I think that oftentimes because of the nature of these security breaches, when they do occur you often see a sensationalization of the problems in that you see the pendulum swing in the opposite direction that immigrants and other groups are oftentimes treated even worse.
So it's better for everyone that security checks are very strong and maintained heavily in place.
But the second thing I want to talk about is about economic welfare concerns.
Obviously the right of welfare can't be absolute because some states just don't have the money to support asylum seekers.
Keep in mind that when you're coming from like a war torn society seeking asylum, oftentimes it can be very difficult for you.
You may have to learn a new language, you have to get maybe new job training, you may need access to various social support services.
These are all things that cost money and especially if you're doing this in an absolute way where you're taking in everyone who wants to come in, who is eligible for asylum, this could be a whole lot of people and that's a big problem because a lot of states just may not have the money to pay for these things.
So this could mean that you're going to be having people who are going to be neglected and not being taken care of and I think that's like quite bad.
But I also think that a lot of states have the other hand a lot of unemployment problems and that like large kicks in immigration can lead to a certain degree of job displacement and oftentimes this is bad because when you're making as a state a decision you have to prioritize the economics security and economic stability of your own people because those are the people who pay taxes, those are the people who you have a duty to, those are the people who give the government the legitimacy in the first place and that's who the government is ultimately supposed to serve.
So while obviously we have certain moral and humanitarian obligations, these obligations cannot be so absolute that they outweigh the basic duties whether it's for security or a calm economic welfare that you're going to have to your own people first and foremost.
So for those reasons the right of asylum is not absolute.