We should not exploit wind turbines because wind energy kinda sucks.
There's a lot of reasons for that.
So first, it's an ineffective way to harvest energy.
So why?
So first, quite simply a lot of places aren't really eligible for wind energy because a lot of places just aren't windy enough.
Like you look at places like massachusetts, even better relatively windy, and you can't really use it all because even here it's not windy all year.
But even besides just like the fact that wind doesn't necessarily exist in many places and it's not always that windy like you have places like florida where by and large the air is like more like sticky and still and things like that.
Most tropical regions there is not oftentimes not as much wind things like that.
But also there is besides that problems in like placement itself.
It's wind turbines have to be generally like really big and they take up a lot of space so you need like a lot of them to really make up the energy and beyond that so it's really difficult to place them and furthermore you can't really put them near like the actual energy source.
Like you can put them really near metropolitan areas in general because they take up so much space things like that and they're also like rather unsightly and things like that.
So probably not going to see that many wind turbines used all that effectively.
But wind turbines also can have different bad impacts on the environments.
Like they could be really bad for birds migratory bird patterns.
Like birds just kind of like go wherever they want and if you're going to be like further exploiting wind turbines then you could have like a ton of wind turbines and that can really be bad for birds.
So that's not good because birds are important.
Like there is a good amount of birds that are endangered and things like that.
So but the biggest most important thing is that on a comparative level there's other kinds of energy that's just simply better than wind energy and most prominently solar energy.
If you're going to invest in any kind of agri-technology and you should probably invest in like rather than investing a little bit of money in all of them, you should focus on one of them because right now none of them are particularly viable on like a massive scale.
You should probably invest in solar energy because that has the widest range of like applicability in the long run.
It's more often sunny than it is windy enough to make a turbine go around.
You can you don't really need like huge designated areas or field wind fields.
You can just like have a roof that has solar panels or like the top of a car something or like a driveway or a parking lot.
And all those things could just like give you solar energy.
These are things that we already like need to do so you don't even have to create additional space.
So that's all good.
So for all those reasons, we should not further exploit wind energy.