We should subsidize condoms and by that we mean we should give public money towards making sure that condoms can be free and publicly available to people various locations or stores or things like that and that they should be incredibly heavily subsidized.
So why should we subsidize condoms?
I think first and foremost there's just an obligation in terms of like providing healthcare for people.
In the same way in that we look at it as immoral to just like let people die of various diseases and that we should look at it as a public good to try to prevent diseases from spreading in both in terms of a moral imperative but also just like a social necessity to make sure that diseases aren't spreading.
This is obviously something that condoms are very helpful with solving.
Obviously STDs can be incredibly problematic and can spread and they can be oftentimes harmful diseases and condoms can be an incredible incredibly effective way to combat STDs being spread.
So for a public health perspective it's already something that you should probably be doing.
But I think beyond that there's also a a social obligation or almost like a nice thing that you're doing for people, a basic moral good when you're making it so that a lot of people who aren't unable to afford something that most people when they have sex take for granted, because most people it's really easy to just buy like a twenty pack of condoms for ten bucks or whatever like most people don't consider it as something that's all that expensive, but for a lot of people in society, for poor people in society, that can be an incredibly large burden and therefore you're they're more likely to practice unprotected sex and more likely to result in accidental pregnancies.
And that also is an incredibly bad thing because it's really unfair that certain people are going to be more likely to get diseases on the basis of financial misfortune and that certain people are going to be more likely to get accidental pregnancies and then be in incredibly harmful situations where they have to either try and find an abortion, which isn't always easy or something that people want to do, or people end up being responsible for a child that they never wanted which is also not something that would be very good.
So I also think that we should look at this in terms of like the costs this would have because condoms are obviously not very expensive.
Treating STDs in one or multiple people if they're if things are like spreading the possibility of when somebody has an accidental pregnancy and they don't have like the financial ability to support that child, oftentimes they're reliant on public support to a decent extent and in almost all of those cases it's going to be cheaper to just provide condoms in the first place rather than try to deal with the after effects with public support.
So from a financial perspective it just makes sense to provide condoms.
But I also think that even beyond that it's also going to be good in that it can maybe even if you're like more opposed to this idea on face, maybe if you're like a republican, generally they aren't very pro abortion either so it's very likely that if you provide subsidized condoms to everybody that when people inevitably have sex anyway, there's going to be less accidental pregnancies with will probably also mean that there's less likely to be abortions which I'm sure will make a lot of people happy as well.
So for all those reasons we should subsidize condoms.