We should abolish open primaries because open primaries give too much influence to people who aren't in the party and it detracts from party control, which is really important to make sure that people are actually represented.
So let's start by talking about why this is unfair to the actual people in the party.
The actual citizens of the party.
And I think the best way to illustrate this is with an example: in a lot of places in the united states districts aren't really all that competitive, especially now with all the polarization that exists.
Usually you have like a tendency to have some districts be safer than others, and because of that there is oftentimes limits in the primary field.
Sometimes only one person is running in one field or the other field, while the other field can have a very crowded field.
And that's a big deal.
So as an example, let's say that like you're running you're in a very liberal area.
Maybe you're in a city and there's only one republican running and there's like five democrats running.
Now possibly under this kind of a scenario, if you have an open primary, anyone who is a registered republican, since there's only one person running in the republican primary, any of them could just vote in the democratic primary and they can try to skew it towards a more conservative candidate.
And that's a big problem on a couple of levels: first because it's not really fair to the people who are actually members of the party, second it's not really all that democratic, because you're not really allowing, this isn't supposed to be like a general election.
This is basically to decide who should be the representative of a specific party which has a specific set of ideals and ideology.
So you want to have a the pool of people voting be limited to the people who are actually members of that party.
So I think that's a problem there too.
And this could lead to basically a lot of problems down the road too, where a lot of people who may be voted in the primary for that candidate are going to vote for the candidate from the other party now while you're going to disillusion a lot of people who are unhappy with maybe the more conservative choice.
So that's just like an example of the way in which this can play out.
Obviously it can play out in other ways as well, but the basic principle was that it allows people to essentially skew the results in an unfair way.
But I also think this detracts from party control which is a pretty big problem.
And it detracts from party control because when you allow non party members to vote in the election you also allow like non party members, who basically run under like the auspices or like the veneer of being a member of a party, when in reality they're not.
And that can also detract in the same way which like the other party can try to like take votes away.
You can also like make it so that the party actually isn't being representative of like what the party actually believes anymore because people can just come in and like do whatever they want and basically like ruin everything.
So for all of those reasons, we should abolish open primaries.