We should limit natural resource exploitation because limiting natural resource exploitation will be both good for the environment and it's the moral and responsible thing to do in the long run.
So let's start by talking about why limiting natural resources is basically a necessity and there's like a lot of reasons for this.
First and most notably, a lot of these resources are finite.
It may like seem like when you're talking about like vast quantities of things, because like the earth is a pretty big place, so when you're talking about like something like oil or gas or even trees, you you in your mind are thinking of something that is basically endless, even like in the conventional sense like with some renewable resources.
But nothing is really can like basically like most of these things don't just like last forever.
You're going to run out of like rare earth metals eventually if you just keep using them endlessly.
You're going to run out of like fossil fuels and even some like renewable sources of energy.
So things like plants if you don't if you use them too much they will die out, and it could take like dozens or hundreds of years for some of these things to like rebuild themselves up.
So if you don't limit your natural resources uses, you might you might just run out of it in the first place and then you're not going to have it at all.
This is further more likely to be amplified when you talk about the fact that human consumption is only growing for a couple of reasons.
First, because humanity is only getting bigger.
There's like already what like seven billion eight billion people in the world.
That number keeps growing.
There's going to be like more and more billions of people as time moves on.
So you're just going to get like a higher base number of people.
But beyond that, people are also consuming more things.
Like western countries consume a whole lot of stuff.
Big countries like china and india are starting to consume more things.
So as like the world keeps developing, you're also going to see like not just like the raw numbers of consumption going up but consumption per individual person is also going to go up.
So you're probably gonna have a crisis of availability of a lot of resources.
So this like lack of availability comes with a lot of consequences.
The first consequence is that it's just not going to exist anymore.
So you're going to have like a really abrupt need to change.
So rather than like responsible long term planning and like needing to like use limited amounts of a resource over a long period of time, there may eventually come a time where it just like runs out and then you're fucked.
So like like an example of this theory could be something like like there is like a lot of like media hype around like cape town in south africa basically in a drought.
It could run out of like there might just there just might not be water in cape town anymore and they'd need to like ship the water out from elsewhere.
Now imagine like on a global scale, if you just run out of something like water because you've used up all of the world's fresh drinking water or even more like you just run out of oil, so now all of the cars that currently exist just aren't going to work cause we don't have oil anymore.
This is something that like is not entirely unreasonable and if we don't like limit our consumption and plan more responsible for the long term, this is going to happen and that's also going to like, besides just like have forcing like abrupt change you're not going to be ready for, it really is incredibly unfair to future generations who are going to have like a lot of like necessities deprived of them because of all of the irresponsible decisions that were made, hedonistic decisions that are being made in the present.
And this doesn't even get into all of the like realities of like responsible climate change and things like that in that you want to like try to curtail climate change, you want to make sure that the earth is actually livable in the long term.
So for all those reasons, we should limit natural resource exploitation.