We should increase local government because local government is more representative, local government will lead to better governing and it's like just like a more efficient and effective system overall.
So let's begin by discussing why local government is more representative.
So I think the most basic element of democracy is that the people get to the people make the decisions.
The people make the the people get to choose the laws, the representatives or whatever.
So the people have control over what the rules of government ultimately are.
So I think that the reason local government would therefore be more representative more democratic is a really straightforward: when you have a smaller pool of people that you're picking from to make laws off of each individual person has more influence and more power.
If you are a single vote out of three hundred million people then your single vote probably doesn't have that much impact.
But if you are the but if you're like one person in a you know like a municipal election where there's only a thousand people then your individual voice has like a whole lot more of a of an impact.
So that means that when you're talking about a local government you're necessarily talking about one where the where individual people have more influence over what's going on.
Just simply by virtue of the like smaller concentration, individual votes or more powerful.
But additionally because of the like closer interactions, because you're in the same area, oftentimes you're close by geographically also gives you more chances to actually interact with representatives.
So the democracy is also like more meaningful.
Because if like you're able to like put more of a face to your like representative or local official, because they're somebody maybe that like you see around, because they're somebody who's nearby, they probably also understand your specific issues better, if like this if like issues that are important to you maybe aren't like important to other people, you can legislate in a way that like sees fit for like the local area.
And you don't have to trade off with like maybe some distant area that has a different opinion.
So you're also probably more likely going to see your values and your interests enacted into government because there are simply like less viewpoints to differentiate between and like much smaller concentrated area.
The next argument that I'm going to advance though is that you're probably going to see more efficient and more effective government.
So I think that when you're talking about like smaller areas people are generally more supportive and cooperative with government because they see the more direct impacts of its services.
So if like people are always mad about taxation that that's like the big bad government keep your money away.
But if you see the actual benefits playing out, if you see the potholes being fixed, if you see the like local parks being better, or the road like all of these benefits, if you see like the power running better, all these things are more directly observable.
So it gives you more of a feeling that you're money can actually be going to good use.
And that's just like a basic example of the laws itself.
Whenever like you're creating a law on the local level, on regardless of what it's about, you're much more likely going to actually see both the benefits and the costs of that law.
So it creates like a better atmosphere for positive solution based engagement.
Because you're actually, you're not so much like dealing with like abstract moralities or faceless populations that are a great distance away because you're going to see the impacts play out right in front of you.
So for all those reasons we should increase local government.