We should not have mandatory community service because it's unfair to the individuals who would have to participate in the community service and it's also just like a generally bad social practice.
So let's start by talking about why community service is problematic when its forced.
So I think that the biggest reason is that by and large this would likely be forced labor.
It would probably be unpaid labor as well and it would happen at periods of people's lives when they often need to be making money the most.
When people are graduating from high school or graduating from college odds are they have the least amount of experience in the workplace but they also have a high degree of debt from like college or things like that so they're in like a rather economically coercive situation and really need all the money they can make.
Odds are these community service jobs are probably not going to pay anything at all in a lot of cases which is an absolutely horrible thing.
At most they might pay a literal like a living stipend but even that is just really not a whole lot of money and moreover it also can be a huge burden on a lot of people compared to what they could be making.
So if somebody could be making more money and using that to pay off debts pay off or save money for like retirement and things like that and get started earlier, all those are like really really good things that we should be encouraging and we shouldn;t be making it harder for people to make money and grow and develop in society.
But moreover this also hurts people because these are like prime years in which you should be getting experience in a given industry that you want to work in and oftentimes like if you don't want to do work in like the public sector and especially because oftentimes like there's probably not going there's going to be so much choice you're going to have over where your community service will be especially if it's mandatory certain kinds of jobs will likely be much more popular than others so odds are that you'll probably have like you'll more likely be assigned to jobs rather than able to pick jobs.
So you maybe taking some pure prime wage earning years and prime skill building years doing something that is really completely useless for your further life.
So that's really like unfair to the individual as well, but moreover I also think that this is as like a second point a pretty immoral practice for a couple of reasons.
First because I think that you shouldn't have to support the government necessarily if you don't want to.
We already give support to the government in terms of financial support so we don't owe the government anything else.
We pay for the services that we use in the form of taxes so the the duty that we have to the government is already satisfied but our literal bodies and our jobs and our ability to earn money is simply too far because that's like a huge huge part of of like who you are and when that can be and when the government has a right to restrict your employment opportunities in stricture restricts your ability to make money restrict what you can do with your life in such extreme ways and force you to do what you don't may not want to do with your life in such a way that could be hugely immoral.
Especially if the job could be something that you simply don't believe it like a job like aiding maybe ICE like immigrations and customs enforcement or the military or something like that which you may not find moral.
So that's a really big problem, but finally I also think that this is really bad for the society in which it's going to be enacted anyway.
Keep in mind that these are likely going to be less qualified people, less experienced people, and people who aren't going to in a lot of cases want to do the jobs they have to do because they're forced to do so and I think that likely you'll see lower productivity, lower levels of effort, lower levels of care and service for these for these jobs and moreover they're also only going to be short term they're not going to be long enough term that you're going to really be able to build up experience with these people.
So for all those reasons, no mandatory community service.