We should abolish the filibuster because the filibuster is anti democratic and it fosters an environment that is much less conducive to government and enables gridlock which is a bad thing.
So let's begin by talking about why the filibuster is anti democratic.
And I think the first thing that we need to recognize is that the basis of a democracy is that the majority should rule on most issues.
So if the majority wants something to pass, if the majority wants higher taxes or lower taxes, if majority wants like this kind of health care or that kind of investment in schools, like you should generally do what the majority wants because everything is being funded with their money, they are the ones that are being they're the ones that have to obey the laws that are being created.
So, the majority should carry a great deal of weight.
The filibuster through this all out because it allows one individual senator, one person, to derail an entire agenda.
Basically it requires it's a way for one single senator to block.
And if you're talking about not like a procedural filibuster but like the vocal filibuster, like one individual senator can basically like hijack the entire session and refuse to yield the floor and keep on going on and on and on and that one senator can just waive like the majority from actually imposing its will.
So that's like a really bad thing because it's like super super anti democratic where one person can have that much power.
But beyond that when you're talking about the procedural filibuster, more so the idea that like you're just trying to block the bill, then you still see something that's anti-democratic because in order to invoke cloture and get around that, it requires a super majority of sixty votes which is like much more than just a simple majority.
So you don't actually see like majority ruling.
You need to have like a super majority to actually enact your will.
And what that ultimately does is it invokes an environment where the minority or the opposition is almost constantly going to get what it wants, even if it's in the minority, because it's difficult to get sixty percent of the population to like agree on something.
So you're much more likely going to see circumstances where functionally the party that is out of power is actually going to get it what it wants because any time somebody who has a majority and a mandate proposes something, if they only have like fifty eight senators, they could have the presidency a majority in the house, maybe even a majority on the supreme court, but if they don't have that like super majority in the senate then they still can't do anything.
And it really goes against the actual like values of democracy when this much power is being invested in that like single chamber of a single branch of government.
But beyond that I also think that it leads to ineffective governing.
Because since you're much more likely going to see like just opposition and blocking of bills that people want, you're more likely just going to see gridlock.
Problems aren't going to get solved, nothing is going to get solved because people aren't gonna be able to agree on anything and it's easier to just oppose anything.
And what that does is, I think that enables radicalism in a lot of ways because people see politics being ineffective because they see the same thing constant gridlock, constantly bills getting blocked, bills falling, nothing really getting better because people don't actually see like congress and especially the sanate is really doing anything productive.
Because you're not actually seeing solutions come up for a lot of these kinds of things.
So for all those reasons we should abolish the filibuster.