Urbanization is great.
We should not fight it.
In fact we should incentivize it.
The first big reason why urbanization is great is that it's necessary and good for the future of jobs and economic organization.
So obviously a lot of a suburban and rural jobs are going away or becoming more automated.
You don't need that many people to be farmers.
A lot of factories are being shifted overseas or largely becoming automated anyway.
Suburban retail industries are getting gutted and destroyed and things like that.
By and large economics are centered around cities and this is going to only continue and accelerate as life goes on.
So as a result you want to make sure that you're going to keep having the resources to combat this trend anyway because this is an inevitable trend that you can't really fight.
You can't force your way out of automate automation.
You can't force your way back into like a more agrarian or space oriented economy.
When everything goes towards more when a as like the societies develop you go towards more specialized centers which is what cities can provide to you.
But additionally cities are great as far as more efficient resource allocation which is also something that's very important.
So if you want to provide things like a hospital services or could be like police and fire services or like electricity grids and things like that all these things can be much more easily provided when they're in concentrated locations when you don't have to spend but first of all like the time distance between going places obviously but also like setting up large like swaths of transportations possibly like long distances and further because of like economics of scale you can serve a lot more people with more specialized services that could be a lot more helpful to people.
So that's obviously a thing that's very good as well.
But additionally you can also do things like more easily provide for people when you can serve a larger group of people at once.
So if you want to do things like subsidized housing it's a lot easier to do it rather than creating a lot of small areas on plots of land create one taller building which has like less land area it takes up except fulling all.
Things like that so urbanization is really good in that.
Urbanization's also really good for the environment though which is very important because whether it's obviously the reduced transportation footprint because if you live in a city you're less likely you drive everywhere and things like that.
You can be more likely to rely on public transportation or a bike or other alternatives.
That's huge because the automobile is a very is obviously a very big reason for behind pollution.
But additionally when you're more concentrated you're gonna have like less habitat destruction less just like destroying to create long endless swaths of land where you need space and pavement and all those kinds of things.
So it's a lot better for the environment to and responsible development as well.
But finally we shouldn't invite we shouldn't fight urbanization because fighting urbanization is fighting the reasonable preferences that people have.
People wanna live in cities because it can be more fun.
You have more access to entertainment opportunities.
It's more vibrant oftentimes.
It's more diverse.
There is a whole lot more to do in cities that makes them a whole lot more appealing and enjoyable especially in a future society.
So for all those reasons we should not fight urbanization.