We should protect the free market because on an empirical level and on an ethical level the free market umn just needs to be protected to the greatest extent possible.
So, let's start by talking about why it's so important , empirically, to make sure that the free market is protected.
And this is something that's really pretty obvious honestly.
When you think about the development of countries around the world, the one's that tend to do best are the ones that have like free markets and capitalism.
And that's important because when you look at like the way in which development actually occurs it's best happening when there is a free market because it's the best way to efficiently allocate scarce resources.
And it makes sure that like corporations and businesses in the like are making the most logical and best decisions with to use their resources on.
And that's important because when you look at like communist regimes or regimes that don't have as much free market control like there's not as much of a free market presence you oftentimes see problems in development.
Development doesn't happen as quickly , there's more likely to be maybe corruption, there is more likely to be inefficient allocation of resources, all of those things.
And because of those reasons development is just much more likely to happen if you have a free market.
But it's also important to have a free market on a more on an ethical level for a couple of reasons.
First, because a free market oftentimes coincides with political freedom and democracy which is obviously something that's very important.
And this is true because when you have economic freedom, economic freedom is oftentimes the basis of a lot of political freedoms when you have economic freedom, when you have the ability to make a profit in a way in which you want to, when the state can't just shut down your business or regulate your business to like the brink of disaster, when you have like a kind of economic independence what tends to come is political freedom because economic empowerment is real power and that real power can come with the ability to like more influenced process.
So that's why when you look at like basically if you just like look at a map of the world of like free market economies and map of the world of democracies, you notice that they they line up rather well in a lot of ways and that's not a coincidence, it's because there's been a lot of like there's a lot of evidence to suggest that free markets lead to political freedom.
So if you think that political freedom is good, which it probably is because political freedom is like like a pretty basic thing, than free markets can impact that as well.
But even beyond that, free markets are also ethically important because it allows like for the proper valuation of your labor.
And I think that that's fair because different labor has different value and if you don't have like the ability to essentially market your labor to the best extent, if like the ability like your ability to make money is as arbitrarily capped by a government regulation or something like that, that's not really fair because you should be able to make as much money as like you can based on like your your labor like you're probably doing something that is like specialized and deserving of that money.
So for all those reasons we should protect the free market.