We should not abandon online dating because online dating is great for a whole lot of people and a lot of people enjoy it.
So let's start by talking about why online dating works for a lot of people.
Because through traditional ways in which you meet people or without the internet or without any kind of online platform to connect with people, your meeting with people in the real world and that's something that a lot of people don't always want to do.
A lot of people don't enjoy going to bars.
A lot of people don't enjoy going to clubs.
A lot of people don't actively want to just go out into the and meet with a bunch of strangers in a place that they don't know or a place they may not be as comfortable.
A lot of people just don't like that and that's for good reasons.
People have diverse personalities.
And especially when you're talking about having like a relationship with somebody, you're dating somebody, these are probably pretty important things.
If you're the kind of person who doesn't like going to clubs, your you may, your probably going to the people that you may meet in clubs and things like that may not be the kind of people that you actually want to date.
And online dating can provide a pretty good solution for that.
Because there's so many people because you get an alternative platform to meet people, and because it creates like essentially a profile where you can learn a couple of things about someone, their basic personality traits and things like that, before you actually meeting with someone or before you're even talking to somebody, it gives you more of a grounding idea of what you're actually going to know about this person rather than just seeing somebody in the club or something like that.
So I think that's a lot better.
But it's also good in terms of access.
Because a lot of people are like awkward, or you're just not comfortable going up to somebody in a club or in a bar and talking to somebody.
And a lot of online dating gives more of a solves a lot of these problems by first just sheer level of access to a lot of people, some of whom are going to be much more similar to you, and second by like matching you with a person.
So you're already going to have a basis of things to discuss.
A basis of similarity which is also helpful.
And a lot of those things are probably going to make your dating experience enjoyable, they're probably going to make your dating experience better, which is all good things.
The next thing that I want to talk about though is that I think that this is also probably helpful in terms of like safety in terms of dating.
Because like I said, when the alternative is you're meeting people in a club or at a bar or something like that and outside, the first time that you're meeting somebody, you're meeting somebody in possibly an unfamiliar space and it's somebody that you really don't know you know almost nothing about, while when it's when it's online dating, you don't have to meet somebody ever, if you do meet them at you don't have to meet them ever.
And if you do meet someone it's only going to be by choice, after sufficient discussion with somebody via like a digital connection.
So there's less of an ability to harm somebody.
And you're more likely to feel comfortable with that person because you've already talked to that person for a while, you probably know a little bit more about that person and you take more time to like get to know somebody.
So I think that it's probably good on the safety front too.
So for all those reasons, we should not abandon online dating.