We should not abandon television because frankly the arguments that it enables obesity or laziness are kind of ridiculous and not really unique anyway.
But additionally people should have the right to make their own life choices and have their recreational activities of their choosing whatever those may be.
So let's start by talking about why I think that TV doesn't actually cause any real harms to anyone or anything.
And the biggest reason for that is cause obviously if you abandon television people naturally want to relax.
It's not only do they naturally want to relax but it's good for people to relax.
It's good for their mental health and physical well-being you end up being calmer more rejuvenated and things like that.
So if people are gonna find ways to relax anyway and further people are also going to want to be lazy.
A lot of people work very hard and they're not looking for doing like physically strenuous things with they're time.
They're looking for something rather laid back and chill.
And TV is pretty good at that.
So if you abandon something like television it's probably just gonna get replaced by things like computers or something like that.
Or like play-station or video games and things like that.
Like there's all kinds of different ways in which you can distract yourself with not doing all that much like like I guess maybe like people could even read or things like that and like obviously reading is good but a lot of people do that anyway and it's not really gonna make much of a difference and further people have been lazy long before TV was a thing.
People would sit and listen to radio or go to shows and movie theaters or broadway or all kinds of things like that.
But the other thing that's important is the idea about choice in that people should watch whatever they want to do and we shouldn't shame that or say that people should abandon that or whatever.
And the reason for that is because it's very empowering and nice to have control over your life in a sense of you do the recreational activities that you want to do and ones that you can enjoy.
And a lot of people enjoy TV.
TV can be very enriching.
It can be funny.
It can be intellectual.
It can be silly.
It can be sports which are great.
There's all different kinds of ways in which TV can enrich your life.
And the worst case is that TV does make you a bit lazier.
It does make you less likely to do something else that's maybe a bit better.
But so what a lot of that is subjective anyway.
You're doing something that you want to do that you think is good for you as far as your relaxation is concerned like what is it anyone else's place to tell you how you should live your life and how you spend your free time.
So for all those reasons we should not abandon television.