We should keep capital punishment because capital punishment can be an incredibly important tool to condemn the worst kind of criminals in a society.
So, I'm not going to say that capital punishment should be used all the time or that it should be used pretty much like any time someone commits murder in fact I think capital punishment should only be used under rather selective circumstances.
Now when we use it too much we do run into problems.
I think that capital punishment should be reserved for people who commit acts of terrorism, commit acts of mass violence, so for example you could look at like dylan ruth who committed like the shooting on the black church.
You can talk about like like a lot of other mass shootings like the like the santa barbara shooting.
You can talk about like other terrorist attacks as well where like boston bombings is a good example where there is a really big public interest in justice being done and secondarily, where there's absolutely no discussion or debate or uncertainty whatsoever that the person you're punishing is the person who committed the crime because far too often we do see that capital punishment is is like people are executed who are later exonerated on the basis of say DNA evidence, so you need to make sure that you're a hundred percent certain that you have the right person and it needs to be done in a selective circumstance.
But given all those things I think that capital punishment is an incredibly powerful symbolic tool.
To essentially express justice in a society.
So when you think about it the biggest reasons why we punish people in the first place in the society is because we want the victims to feel like justice was done.
We want society to essentially see that justice is being done and that certain actions are being condemned and we want to use that kind of social condemnation to additionally deter future actions and to essentially take a moral and rightous stance against the crimes that were done.
So I think that all of these things are applicable to a lot of instances of capital punishment being used and I think that symbolism is something that matters really deeply to people.
When you think about like the recent violence in charleston when we're talking about like things like the confederate flag or statues of robert e lee or things like that, you're talking about symbolism but you're talking about symbolism that has a great deal of power because symbolism is cause symbolism of folks essentially a history of suffering and can invoke history of persecution and I think that the death penalty as itself is a very powerful symbol of social condemnation when you think about it because the death penalty has been used in america and around the world for generations, for centuries, to execute our worst criminals.
So whether there's scientific evidence that shows whether or not it like is a good deterrent, whether or not there's like evidence that it's being used for improper means, one thing is clear the death penalty is the most powerful tool of social condemnation that we have in a society for criminals.
And additionally, the death penalty is also historically been used to oppress minorities for various crimes.
So because of all those reasons I think that the use of death penalty against people who commit the most egregious acts for like people like dylan ruth, people who commit acts of violence against minorities, people who commit acts of terrorism against the fabric of our society, these kind of people are definitely deserving of being executed and I think that it's a very proper solution for them as well because you're best insuring victim justice in a lot of circumstances by giving them the most powerful punishment we have.
It's going to be the best on a social level by showing in the strongest terms to society that we condemn this in such an extreme way we're willing to use the most powerful punishment that we have and I think that sends a powerful message when you're not willing to execute people like dylan ruth but you're willing to execute a random black person like on the street.
I think that that sends a very powerful message, so I think that there's definitely a time and a place for the death penalty and I think that it's something therefor that we should not end.