Eco tourism is good and we should increase it.
And the biggest reason we should increase it is because it's incredibly helpful for the conservation movement and for it's good for the environment.
And secondarily we should increase it because it's just an enjoyable alternative way to tour compared more traditional ways.
So let's start by why it's good for conservation and why that's important.
Obviously the environment is important.
We all live in the environment.
If the environment is destroyed were probably a pretty big trouble, and we rely pretty heavily on the environment.
We rely heavily on the ability to have clean air, we rely on a livable environment that isn't destroying us via like natural disasters and things like that, and we rely on animals to make sure that we have a stable ecosystem.
Makes sure that like plants get pollinated, make sure that like the small animals can eat the plants and those big animals can eat those and then we could eat those animals.
Obviously all those things are interconnected.
So conservation is really important.
So how do we increase conservation by increasing eco tourism?
And I think that the big thing here is that seeing is believing and seeing is supporting.
When you're directly seeing something you're probably more likely to be connected to it.
In the same way in that like if you directly know somebody who is like impacted by some kind of like problem, you're probably more likely to help them out than you are some stranger on the other side of the world.
The tangible human connection that is created when you're interacting with the environment that you would now be supporting, it means that you're probably more likely to be sympathetic.
You're gonna be more likely to be sympathetic in terms of like your political political positions, and terms of like your statements that you make and things like that, and also in terms of like financial support you'd give.
But on a more direct level, eco tourism can also have direct financial benefits.
Because the money that is being made off of like eco tourism, rather than just like going into the pockets of like larger corporations or things like that maybe, it can go into like local conservation movements, things like that, all pretty good things.
But additionally I also think that eco tourism should be increased because it's a pretty enjoyable way to travel.
An enjoyable way to spend your time.
There is proven scientific research that shows that spending more time in nature is incredibly good for your mental health.
It's why people recommended that like even if you have a plant in your house, that's like a pretty good thing, but it's also really good to just get up and go outside, get some sunlight, things like that.
And especially when you're in nature, something that is incredibly serene, incredibly calming.
That can be incredibly beneficial for you.
You're probably going to enjoy yourself.
So if you increase it people are more people are going to get this enjoyable experience which is good.
It also means that yeah, it also means that you're going to get to get all the benefits that are accrued, because it's also possible because of climate change that the environment isn't going to be the way it is forever.
And that's a really big problem because if you really want to get like a unique tourist experience you should probably go for the thing that isn't going to be there as long.
The eiffel tower probably isn't going anywhere over the next one hundred years or so, but like are really fragile rainforest may not be true.
It may get cut down by a commercial logging company, it may get destroyed by a hurricane or something.
Who or a wildfire, who knows what's going to happen.
So you should definitely increase eco tourism, appreciate the environment more.
And for all those reasons, proud to propose.