We should abolish marriage, because marriage is completely outdated, and it makes people unhappy, and marriage also oppresses people.
So, all of these things are independently very very bad, but let's first talk about how marriage as a structure makes a whole lot of people less happy.
And, I think it makes people less happy in a couple of ways.
First, it makes people unhappy in that a lot of people aren't meant to, or enjoy, a lifetime bond with a single sexual partner, and I think that that's incredibly important, and I think one of the reasons why a whole lot of developed countries divorce rates are very very high, and most marriages end in failure, is because, for most most people are kind of always looking for more in life, people get bored after awhile with the same person, people are looking for maybe something new or exciting, people are looking for something different, people may not want to have a family, people may not want to be tied down, and things like that, all of those are a like reasons why people may not want to necessarily be involved in marriage.
And this is incredibly important, because right now, marriages is essentially the like basic form of social organization in most countries around the world.
Most countries around the world have like some kind of system of marriage, and the family, and that's basically the system of social organization, and how people are raised.
And I think that that, in some ways, may be a problem, and it may be outdated, and, a lot of people aren't just simply happy with it, anymore.
Another obvious area, in which marriage makes people unhappy, is the idea that like marriage is something special, especially if you're someone who tries to put more of a religious significance to marriage.
You may not be able to engage in things like premarital sex, or things like that, other kinds of practices are more likely to be shamed or frowned upon, having like an open marriage, or like an open relationship, or things like that, are things that are more likely going to be frowned on, or condemned, and those only serves to further make it so that people are less likely to be happy.
But, I also think that marriage is very very bad, and that it's oppressive for women, and it's oppressive for gender minorities as well, and people who have different sexualities as well.
So, why is this true?
The obvious reason for this is that the idea of marriage is that it was based on like a sexist idea, that there's two things that are necessary in life essentially: you need to make sure that you can do god's work, and like raise the next generation of people, and things like that, and you oh I guess also do god's work, and like make a whole lot of money as the man, and things like that.
And I think that breaking down these norms are going to be incredibly difficult to do, because while more women than ever are entering the workforce, and more men are being willing to do housework, there's still, obviously, a significant imbalance, and there's still obviously a significant disparity here, and I think that that's very unlikely to ever truly change overall, and I think that the big reason for that is because the institution itself, of like monogamous marriage, is structured in such a way that it disadvantages women, especially when like women are, like, oftentimes going to earn less money compared to men, and things like that, societies are structured in a way, in that as long as we have marriage, and that there is an option for women to become dependent on men, or an easier way for women to become dependent on men, and not as economically active, there's going to be social pressures, that are going to meet this much much more likely, and I think that when you abolish marriage, that's going to be less of a problem.
So, for all those reasons, we should abolish marriage.