We should abandon AI because AI is going to essentially lead to the end of the value of humanity itself and that's something that's very bad.
This is a trend that we're already seeing whether it's like the automation of most like jobs, or the development of constant mechanical and robotic and artificial replacements for human labor, this is going to create essentially a global a shift to the global order that I don't really think that we're prepared for for a lot of reasons.
Most notably, the basically the like the underpinning of human society is that you're able to get like access to like any semblance of a of a good quality of life because you can work a job and that job is going to pay you money.
That's one of the biggest reasons why, whether it's like an economic recession or a depression or anything like that, we're always worried about jobs and we're always worried about unemployment rates.
Because without the ability of most people to work jobs, there is basically no way that most people are going to be able to provide for themselves and society.
Certainly not nowadays when we have so much wealth inequality when wealth is concentrated in the hands of a select few individuals, when corporations are able to have property rights that make it so that the owners of like a couple of algorithms or a couple of like technologies or anything like that are able to charge whatever they want for their services and things like that that people become dependent on.
The fact that social safety nets are almost nonexistent in many parts of the world so that when people aren't able to get employed they're not going to really be able to have access to things like medical care, to things like shelter, to things like food, let alone to any other kind of thing that might be important in your life.
So I think that a lot of ways the wholesale replacement of human labor that is going to come with technology is not going to be something that I think that your humanity is prepared for.
I think that it's probably going to cause an incredibly abrupt and an incredibly an incredibly problematic shift the problem for human society.
The second reason why we should just abandon AI all together is because like who knows it might kill us.
I think that the the underpinning of this argument is that since artificial intelligent will be smarter than us at some point, and since it'll then be able to essentially engineer itself and it'll be able to do so in ways that surpass human understanding by the nature of the fact that it's going to be more intelligent than us, there's really no way that we can possibly regulate it.
There's no way that we can possibly control it, there's no real way to do this in a safe way.
Because any safeguards that humanity comes up with, these safeguards have to be designed to control a being, a conscious being, that is literally smarter than you are which I think is an absolutely like ridiculous thing to do.
Like we can't even keep rats out of people's houses because they're smart like, how are we going to be able to or like we can't deal with like all kinds of things that are intelligent how are we going to be able to like stop AI from like killing everybody if it decides that humans are bad for the existence of AI?
So for all those reasons we should get rid of AI.