The free market should not be protected.
I think in fact, the free market should be heavily regulated by the government, and I think that the big reason for this is that, first and foremost, even the idea of a free market is just inherently ludicrous, because market is not actually free, and that this comes with a lot of problems, if left unregulated, and that secondarily, I actually think you're going to get far more preferable economic benefits of more of of a good deal of regulation, independent of more like rights oriented problems.
So, let's first talk about the like nature of the free market.
Because I think that, it's a rather foolish assumption that the free market will just work itself out, in that you have people, magically, in equal bargaining positions, and that they can equal bargaining power, to negotiate with an employer about things like fair wages, about fair working conditions, and all these things.
And I think that, history is very much proof of a lot of these things.
That, before a lot more market regulations, that existed throughout history, you had a lot more abysmal working conditions, in a lot of parts of the developed world, where you saw people would have common workplace accidents, they wouldn't get any workplace compensation, they would be thrown aside like they were nothing, about how people could be paid like practically nothing for their labor, and they wouldn't be able to survive themselves, despite the fact that they would be working sixty hour weeks.
I think that it's quite clear that, there's always going to be more of a reliance on jobs, than a reliance on labor, and the reason for this is because, there's always going to be, especially in modern times when there's always the threat of moving offshore, or the threat of automation, there's always going to be higher a bargaining position, or that ace in the hole for the employer, that's going to make it so that employers aren't on equal grounds, without government regulation.
This is why things like unions are important, and I think that government regulation is just taking this one step further, to make sure that you actually ensure workers rights are protected.
But the next thing that I want to talk about I want to talk about preferable economic practices and things like that.
Because, I think that right now, the idea about free market economics, producing economic growth, in a lot of ways it's highly skewed.
So if you look at a place like america, maybe you're going like, what?
Like one percent, two percent economic growth, the stock market's growing, and all of that looks great, until you realize that the vast majority of this wealth is getting concentrated with a small group of people, and that the average worker, or the backbone of the american economy, is not actually growing.
And, I actually think that this is a problem, because when you think about it, ultimately, economic growth is most fueled by consumption, and a lot of times consumption is going to be on things that are frivolous, or services, or luxuries, things that are not necessarily vital for someone's survival, and it's only by furthering economic growth, and it's only by like furthering the economic growth, on the individual level, that you ensure a reality where people are going to be more willing to spend more.
So like for example, people aren't going to be willing to do things like buy like a new car, or a house, or things like that, if they don't actually have the money to do so.
But, the final thing that I want to talk about is: I want to talk about I want to talk about the way in which, like, free markets are oftentimes distortionary, in that I think that, without regulation, you have a direct ability to like mislead people into purchases, misrepresent your product, misrepresent what you're actually doing, and I think that the main reason that this happens, is that you're you're going to be having like massive growth of corporations and things like that, which ultimately lead to political interests, that these corporations have, and these when they're allowed to engage as political entities, they're allowed to essentially undercut the average person, and their own interest, and I think that that's a big problem too.
So, for all those reasons, we should regulate the free market.