We should increase personalized medicine.
This strikes me as one of those things where there is really no limited down there is no harms there's really no downside and there's only a possibility of benefits that are associated with personalized medicine.
So let's start by talking about what some of these benefits could be.
As we learn more and more about the human body and as science advances, we realize how complex in even more profound ways the human body really is.
And we learned that a lot of things that we thought were can now be done better and most importantly we also learned that different people respond to different things.
And that the differences that we have in our DNA, the kinds of treatments that we respond to our don't respond to, the kinds of medicines that may work better or not work as well, can often times be specific to specific people with specific genes.
So that's why personalized medicine is at the most basic level important because it's the study of making sure that people can get healthy in more effective ways because what works for one person may not necessarily work for everybody.
But beyond that, it's important to make sure that we recognize that there is really no downside of increasing personalized medicine.
This doesn't have to come at the expense of more generic medicines.
One of the first things that would happen is like obviously in order to get any kind of like medicine on the market it has to go through FDA testing anyway.
So even if like a medicine isn't going to work for everyone there's still going to be like heavy scrutiny heavy tests for safety and all kinds of things like that.
So it's really we we shouldn't be looking at personalized medicine through a lens of like fear or lack of safety because it probably is going to be like fairly safe as safe as any other kind of medicine.
The the debate is about efficacy and I think that there that's when personalized medicine can be more effective.
In a lot of cases it may even be necessary.
An example of this could be something like the increase of antibiotic resistant drugs because when for example you keep giving everyone the same antibiotics you keep giving everybody the same treatments to the same illnesses eventually when those diseases mutate when those diseases evolve and they develop resistances since everybody is taking the same thing it creates more of a problem but if people were getting more individualized treatment if there were like if instead of getting like one antibiotic that everyone is going to get the same of maybe antibiotics in like a a more like modern time are going to be more personalized for an individual it becomes much more likely that they're going to be successfully treated because it's a more personalized treatment you're dont have to worry about the same kinds of things of resistance and the like so.
For all those reasons we should increase personalized medicine.