Israel should not end the blockade of the gaza strip and it shouldn't do it because it's absolutely vital for security purposes that they keep this blockade up.
So ending the blockade means completely abandoning the security measures that are currently in place that restrict the movement of goods into gaza.
Maybe israel could take some measures to ease the blockade, maybe they could allow in more it could let in more humanitarian goods or it can allow more staffers for the blockade so that way humanitarian aid things like that get processed quickly and are not just sitting at checkpoints for long periods of time.
Uf it could take measures maybe to ease access and things like that but the blockade itself I think is absolutely vital to israeli security.
So let's talk about first and foremost why this is true.
Obviously right now israel isn't actually at war with any countries in the middle east.
It's not a war with lebanon, it's not war with iran or saudi arabia or egypt or any of these countries israel even has to a certain extent alliances with some countries now in the middle east.
The greatest threat to israel's security and what actually results in the majority of israeli deaths nowadays is terrorist attacks and more so than that terrorist attacks that often are originating out of the gaza strip and the west bank.
So why do you need to make sure that the west that the gaza strip is being blockaded?
Because there's actors around the world that are willing to give give hamas like the predominant terrorist organization that exists is like essentially a government in the gaza strip weapons.
Iran is willing to give them rockets, turkey is willing to give them weapons, governments around the middle east like are willing to both openly and covertly give weapons to hamas that are knowingly going to be used against israeli civilians.
So obviously that's just wholly unacceptable to israel.
Israel cannot allow weapons to flow into the gaza strip without any kind of checks against this and there's no reason to think that this won't happen.
There's governments that are willing to do that clearly hamas wants to like keep bombing israel because that's just like kind of what they do.
So there's no real reason to think that if you end the blockade that's suddenly going to result in like an easing of terms.
You're probably still going to see like a terrorist organization still wanting to commit acts of terrorism now it's just going to be more able to do so.
But I also think that we should look into some of the comparative as for what are the actual costs of the blockade because at the end of the day I think that they're rather small.
I think that sometimes people overblow the political problems the blockade has cost for israel by and large ending the blockade isn't going to stop people from protesting israel, it's not going to make BBS go away, it's not going to make other kinds of anti israel organizations ease up because it's not that they're like mad about the boycott that's just one of the things they're mad about.
They're mad about basically everything that israel does.
They're mad about settlements, they're mad about the fact that there's no statehood, they're mad about the fact that israel forced palestinians off their land, they're mad about the fact that like there's no right of return, they're mad about the fact that like there's not sufficient spending that's going into like a lot of like areas in gaza strip and the west bank, they're mad that like civilian targets dying bombed, they're mad about like a literally a billion things.
They're so I don't really think it is meaningful to say just because you end the one thing you end the blockade you're really going to see any kind of meaningful progress.
You're not going to see international political norms change, you're not going to see anti israeli actors change you're certainly not going to see hamas get any nicer you're not really going to see the west bank change it's like change all that much because it's kind of disconnected from hamas by and large right now.
You're really not going to see all that much change so there's really no reason why you should bother lifting the blockade.
It's necessary for safety, and you're not really going to get all that much change.
So we're all those reasons, don't end the blockade.