Private universities should not be banned because private universities are pretty good, they don't really cause any problems and they're better than public universities in a good deal of cases.
So let's start by talking about why private universities aren't really all that bad compared to like a lot of other private things, like private health insurance, things like that maybe.
Most of most private universities are first nonprofits.
They're usually good schools, they usually do good are in research and development that benefits the public as well.
By and large, their biggest competition isn't so much public universities, it's like corporations and things like that.
So like say the use the like research that's being done at places like stanford or MIT or harvard, is oftentimes really good for public welfare.
And usually funded anyway by like government grants and projects and things like that.
It's usually helping fight diseases, helping develop like new technologies, just for the public good.
As opposed oftentimes corporations, who are doing it with like a much more profit based incentive in mind.
So rather than simply developing things to make more money by selling it to people, a lot of times public research is happening at private universities and it simply the venue where these things are happening.
So private universities are pretty good news.
Private universities are also good because it allows education funding to be less politicized.
One of the one of the first things that tends to get cut when inevitably you have a recession, or you have some republican that comes along and thinks that you need to cut spending on everything to help rich people, and inevitably one of the earliest things to get cut is public education.
Because they say: " oh well you need to help it's bad for the private sector.
Do other kinds of alternatives.
Or spend it on other things instead, or don't spend that money at all. "
And this is bad because if you ban all private universities then you're dependent on no universities or public university solely and that's bad because public universities are much more likely to see cuts.
I'm politically unpopular scientific programs, so maybe things like women's health research, stem cell research, things like that like really important medical research, these are all things that could be in jeopardy on political grounds and that's just not even containing the fact that like financially things can be less secure.
Like the fact that there was a recession and politicians think they need to cut spending shouldn't mean that we like spend less on educating our future or cancer research or anything like that.
Obviously those things wouldn't be very good.
But finally private universities just tend to have more tend to like already have a lot of money and are a good independent source of money.
And I really don't think that the public education system can afford to be burdened with the addition of all the people who are already being privately educated.
Because college costs a lot of money, and to run , so essentially replace all of the private universities with equivalent government options, it would require huge huge huge amounts of government investment government spending.
Which I don't really think that the government necessarily has the ability to do right now, and even if it does, why do that?
Like you can spend that money on a whole lot of other things.
That would be more useful.
Because the alternative isn't all that bad.
Private universities aren't really all that bad.
So for all those reasons don't ban, don't ban them.