Prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory, and it should be mandatory, because there is a significant health risk, and it's best that people are as informed as possible, before making these kinds of significant health decisions.
And, I think that there's a very clear line that we're drawing here.
While, it's not that, while you're not requiring, as the state getting you're not requiring abortions, you're not requiring anything too invasive, you're largely requiring non invasive procedures, and, in the events that they are a little bit more invasive, you're requiring them in situations where there's some kind of disease, or some kind of disability, or things like that, and I think that it's undeniable, that these things are, to a certain extent, public concern.
A whole lot of public funding goes into things, like disabled services, a whole lot of public funding goes into like, a lot of like public school services, and things like that.
If you're like, a lower income family, and oftentimes these are the people who are going to be least likely to not want to get prenatal diagnosis anyway, simply because they don't have the money for it, I think that making it mandatory means that it's going to be more likely, that the state is going to be willing to fund these kinds of things.
And I think, that the reason for this is because whenever you're like required to get something by the state, like if for example a required vaccination, or things like that, in the event that you're under something like say medicaid, these things have to be covered, because this it's a required healthcare expense, much in the same way that a regular check up is, or antibiotics, if you have like an infection, your basic things that get covered.
However, when prenatal diagnosis is seen as something more like discretionary, when it's not when it's seen as optional, this is something that it's a whole lot easier to leave out of a lot of coverage packages, and things like that, which I think is bad, because it means that poor people, or people who are are less well off, are going to be less likely to get these things.
And I think that's a big problem, both for individual parents, and for the state, because I think that since they're less likely to get the scannings, and things like that, they're going to be more likely to unknowingly have a child, who's going to have some kind of disability, or lifelong disease.
And that's a big problem, because obviously there's a whole lot of different diseases and disabilities, they range they range a whole lot, in terms of severity and the like, but in most cases, it's going to require more money on the part of the parents, and more time on the part of the parents, to put in that care for a child, who has some kind of lifelong disability or disease.
And this is very important, because in the same way that we accept that parenting is simply not for everyone, sometimes people don't have the resources, people don't have the time to do so, it's certainly the case with disabled people, or people with diseases.
A lot of families simply aren't going to have the resources, or the ability, to do these kinds of things.
So, in that case, a lot of this onus is going to fall on the state.
It's going to fall on the state as a responsibility to care.
So, I think it's perfectly fair that the state is going to have this kinds of conversation, make sure that they're going to like, know what's going on there.
So, I think that that's very important, it's important for both the state, because the state needs to make sure that it's going to like, have all these things like have as much information as possible, and second it's also important to the parents, to make sure that they're not getting stuck with unexpected costs, that they may not be capable of of fronting.
So for all those reasons, prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.