Single-sex schools should be banned because they're harmful for learning.
They hinder learning in a lot of ways, and they're a modern manifestation of separate but equal in a in a way that oftentimes reinforces bad gender roles, particularly when it comes to like single-sex religious schools and things like that.
So, let's start by talking about even in the most like positive picture of a single-sex school, they simply aren't going to do learning as effectively, and there is a lot of reasons why.
The first of which is that one of the most important things that you need to learn is how to communicate and interact with people of different genders.
And that's an incredibly important thing because, in the real world, you're going to interact and have to, whether it's in like your workplace, well mostly in your workplace, but also in like likely your personal life and other kinds of things that you're going to do, you're likely going to interact with people of different genders and therefore, you're gonna want to get experience with these people, because people have people who have different sexes have oftentimes different perspectives because they've had different experiences, different struggles in their lives, so it's important to make sure that you're learning from them in the sense that it's going to prepare you for your future because you're going to have a like a better ability to communicate and understand people, but it's also going to give you a broader perspective in understanding of the world.
Because you're going to learn from people for with different perspectives, whether it's in like a class discussion in a civics class about something and now you're going to be having different perspectives from different people, which can lead to maybe you changing your opinion on something.
These are all things that can only happen if you have learning in a setting in which people of different genders are represented.
So, that's very important.
But , beyond that, it's also just inherently important because the way in which like you interact with people is probably the most important thing that is going to that you actually take out of school.
A lot of the things that you learn in school, you're probably not going to remember forever.
Like, if I am going if I'm gonna go to law school for like my like career, I'm probably not going to need to know all that much from my AP biology class in high school.
I'm probably not going to need to remember too much of from my algebra class.
Those things are in a lot of ways just transient things that you learn at a certain point in your time because you have to, but they're not really things that you take away for the rest of your life.
They're not really things you actually need to know for actually like an enriching education.
But learning how to work with other people who you live with and like your society is definitely a skill that you need to make sure that you're more good at, and that's definitely more likely to happen when you have integrated education.
But, the next argument is that oftentimes I think that , especially when you're talking about what mostly when you're talking about all-male schools, it's a way of institutionalized elitism.
When you're talking about all-male boarding schools, a lot of times it's like a feeder into certain kinds of privileged jobs or privileged universities.
A lot of times all-male boarding schools can be ways in which like cycles of wealth and cycles of being well-off are reinforced in our society in pretty harmful ways.
But beyond that, I also think , especially when it comes to religious education, single-sex schools can be incredibly harmful in the way in which they play into traditional gender roles in society, which can be really bad.
So if you have like a religious school that has classes for who has basically divisions based on gender, it's likely going to have focusing on different values for women that they do for men, teaching them to be certain kinds of people, putting them in a box as for how long they should be learning, which I think is pretty bad for actually making sure that people are equal.
So for all of those reasons, we should ban single-sex schools.