We should not end cheer leading because ending cheer leading would be a pretty sad thing for a lot of the people for the many people who enjoy cheer leading as a sport or take a lot of pride and enjoyment out of it and I also think that trying to target cheer leading specifically for something that should be ended is an incredibly sexist thing to do and really bad for women and their place in sports.
So let's start by talking about why this is like an a matter of freedom of freedom of like choice and freedom of how you want to live your life enjoy it that we need to preserve cheer leading.
The first thing to keep in mind is that a whole lot of people really enjoy cheer leading millions of people participated in schools across the country in competitive competitions.
People watch it on TV on ESPN when it's on sometimes but people just enjoy it too.
It's an important part of the game.
It's it's an important its an important sport in its own right and as well it also functions as a great compliment to a whole lot of other sports that are being played.
But beyond just like the outward impacts of cheer leading like the things that people from the outside can appreciate about cheer leading people inside cheer leading often enjoy a whole lot too.
It's like a way too like express yourself do like acrobatics and stunts its almost like like a performance in a lot of ways which a lot of people enjoy and think is very fun.
It can be like freeing in the same way that most people when they're younger like to do sports.
It's like a way to like get out energy it's a way to it's it's obviously very athletic intensive it's very difficult to be a cheerleader and all of these are things that make the individual person who's also participating in cheer leading enjoy what they're doing.
So there's a whole lot of reasons why people want to do cheer leading and those are perfectly good reasons and we should respect those choices and let people do that but I think that the big the next big problem with this is that it would be incredibly sexist to single out cheer leading and take it out.
There's an argument being made that cheer leading is dangerous.
Cheer leading certainly isn't always safe when you're doing stunts and flips and things like that.
There's always a risk for concussions for sprains things like that.
I think that the real problem though is that if you were going to say that those deign those dangers implicit with a sport are too much for cheer leaders which is predominantly female sport to handle but we're not going to do the same things for like banning football or banning where concussions are widespread and other more severe injuries or where it like in wrestling where you can also have injuries or like even in basketball or not even to get into MMA in boxing and things like that there's all other kinds of sport that are predominantly associated with men that are incredibly dangerous and I don't really think that necessarily that the risk associated with it means you have to get rid of it as long as individual people can consent into those risks if individual people are enjoying those and if you like are it's like the people who were in charge of organizing this sport are willing to provide care support and like health support too for people when they do get injured.
I think it would be absolutely ridiculous to single out cheer leading as a sport where oh well it's too dangerous for women to do it while we're going to let men keep doing dangerous sports.
It kind of strikes me as a very prominent double standard where you need to coddle women keep protecting women because they can't like because like if they do a back flip they might like hit their head and get a concussion or something and that can be very dangerous.
There's obviously implicit dangers in an all sports and cheer leading is certainly not any more dangerous than a whole lot of other sports.
So I think to single out cheer leading is something that we need to condemn would be a pretty problematic thing.
So for all those reasons we should not end cheer leading.