We should ban hunting because hunting is inhumane.
It's blood sport, and it and it serves absolutely no purpose to society whatsoever, and we'll be better off without it.
So, let's start by talking about what the actual contents of context of hunting is, because I think it oftentimes happens in incredibly bad ways and there is incentives that encourage it to happen in the worst way possible.
Because the more exotic the game, the more challenging the game, and the more prestigious the game, the more attractive it becomes, the more alluring it is.
So this is why things like trophy hunting are much more are like incredibly popular, why people would rather kill a rare animal than an incredibly common animal, things like that.
So, how does this play out?
The way this is plays out contextually is that the animals that ultimately are likely to get killed by hunting tend to be the ones that you should least be least willing to kill, are the ones that it's the most horrible to kill, whether it's killing animals like elephants or tigers or even like apes or chimpanzees or animals like that or rare variations of animals, the result is that oftentimes you're killing incredibly complex animals.
Oftentimes, these animals happen to be endangered and most importantly, a lot of these animals tend to be incredibly complex animals that have feelings, that have emotions, that feel pain and loss and that suffer, that have family members that can form attachments with one another and all kinds of things like that.
So, why should we care about all those things?
I think on the most basic level, it's simply an evil thing to do.
The reason why we do something like ban dog fighting is because we recognize that it serves no purpose for anyone whatsoever, other than to give enjoyment to people at the expense of a living being, which is just a horrible thing to do.
You don't want to torture or kill something just simply for the fun of it, because animals have inherent value in their lives.
Animals can feel emotions, animals can think, animals can do a lot of the things that we value.
Animals communicate with one another and they have family members.
And when you kill animals for fun, it comes with a great deal of loss.
That animal is no longer going to be able to enjoy its life.
Its no longer going to be able to be happy.
Its family members are likely going to suffer from the loss.
You could have , and this is all especially magnified when you're talking about really complex organisms, which are the ones that are most likely going to be incentivized to be hunted, given the way that like people like to be like really shitty and hunt things that appear to be more prestigious or are rare or endangered.
So this is why, like, a lot of times you get news coverage about trophy hunting and the murder of elephants and things like that, or the murder of like tigers or monkeys and the like.
And this comes at an incredibly big cost to those organisms, but it also further along besides the fact that it's just immoral and really like a bad thing to do, it also furthers the extinction of these animals.
So you're now not even going to be able to get some kind of appreciation for those animals, you're also more likely going to disrupt the ecosystems that revolve around these animals, so all of these things are reasons why we need to ban hunting.