We should limit campaign finance because extreme campaign contributions by wealthy individuals is incredibly anti democratic and it comes directly at the of the average person ability to influence so let's begin by discussing the obvious impacts of like a political campaign on governing itself.
So obviously if you can't even get on the ballot in the first place or if you're not able to say win your party's primary or and then after that able to win elections then you're not really able to actually actualize or like effectively implement any kind of political view.
So the entirety of the campaign itself from the beginning to the actual election is incredibly important.
Because it's a way of like like shrinking the pool of people who are actually able to run the country.
So if the process by which we're like eliminating candidates is done in an ineffective way then obviously you're not really being democratic.
And when you have overly skewed campaign contributions, this tends to be what happens.
Because you can have people with massive sums of money essentially swinging elections, because they're able to spend infinite sums of money on like all these negative attack ads, infinite sums of money on donating to a single candidate who is going to support their views, doing all these kinds of things to make sure that their their interests are more likely going to be enacted on and they are going to be the ones that are interested to.
And I think there's actually two distinct issues that can be seen here: there's first the issue that people who have more money are able to win elections because you can win an election with money.
So if you give somebody money, like you're essentially as like a rich person picking and choosing who's going to win the races and secondarily you can have more of a direct impact on the policy, because given that you're such a big donor, they're probably going to listen to you, their probably going to change their votes because of the money that you gave them.
So the result is that you're going to have both a pool of people who are going you have a pool of people who are more likely just to do what like rich people are going to say.
And I think that this comes directly at the expense of the average person.
Because the average person isn't going to be able to exert as much influence on politics in the same way.
And a big reason for this is because it's gonna it's just way easier for a politician to raise a million dollars off of one person than going to tens of thousands of people and trying to get like ten dollar donations are a hundred dollar donations.
It's just much more like time easy.
Because like campaigns require you to like interact with like a large amount of people, there's a lot of events.
Obviously you have a lot you have to do.
So the result is that you see all these like closed door fundraisers where who only knows, like candidates can make all kinds of promises that go against the actual interests of like the the population that they're supposed to serve.
And I think what that ultimately leads to is a deterioration of trust in the system itself.
Something that we're seeing right now, where both republicans and democrats are taking money from rich people in their campaigns and the average person in the party isn't all that happy about it on both sides because they see it as a way in which the political system is essentially being hijacked by wealthier and more powerful interests.
So for all those reasons we should limit campaign finance.