We should not protect edward snowden because what edward snowden did is bad and because it would set a bad precedent to legitimize the actions that edward snowden.
So let's start by talking about what he specifically did is bad.
I think that mass surveillance is by and large something that was already well known by most of the population.
It's something that in the wake of nine eleven we legitimized, we knew the government the government was already spying on people, and we knew that it was doing this because we want to deter terrorist attacks.
Obviously the government when it's collecting its meta data and things like that can't use that to charge the average person with any kind of crime.
It's not going to use that and give it to the local police department by you.
They're using this for pretty high level stuff for terrorist activity, for threats to national security.
So by and large the average american doesn't really have anything to hide unless you're like a terrorist or you're doing or you're threatening to like like kill a whole lot of people.
You probably don't have to worry about actually getting affected by government surveillance.
So I think that the privacy rights violation that was taking place here it seems worse than it does.
It seems bad because a lot of data is getting collected but in matters like what that data is being used for and how it's being used and you can obviously have safeguards and acceptable uses for that data.
You can make sure that there is constitutional requirements that are in place so that you can't use it in like some kind of district or local court or for some kind of local crime.
You could only use it for threats to national security.
So I don't think like it really was a whole good thing where there was all this leaking of government secrets, leaking of how governments were collecting data and what they were doing with this data and things like that.
It makes it more difficult for governments to do their job and protect people from terrorism which really isn't good.
But beyond that, I also think this is a bad precedent because this was essentially a violation of government secrecy laws, leaking state secrets and the only reason some people think is okay is because of political reasons.
People think that oh well I agree politically that the state shouldn't be spying on me.
I think that this is illegitimate.
So I'm glad that somebody broke the law to give me that information.
But the problem is is that that's not the way the law works.
The law has to exist across different circumstances.
It shouldn't be just like you can't have the law tailored to individual context in all these ways because it means that you're probably going to get unjust and unequal outcomes where depending on the popularity of some kind of topic or action you're going to see people get punished in wildly different ways for literally doing the same thing.
So maybe next time somebody's going to instead of leaking something that hurts national security in terms of like spying operation, maybe somebody's going to leak something about troop movements.
Maybe somebody's going to leak details about like weapons or development or these kinds of things that are much more contentious politically.
But that doesn't actually change the underlying wrong, the underlying legal violation that took place which is outing state secrets.
That's like simply not an acceptable thing that we can allow to do if we value keeping governments and national security safe.
So for all those reasons, don't protect edward snowden.