We should not ban reality tv because doing so is an obvious violation of freedom of speech and freedom of expression.
And beyond that it's also an incredibly ridiculous idea.
So let's start by talking about why this is just illegal and it's a violation of free speech and expression.
And there's a couple of reasons for this: and first it's because this is self expression is an incredibly important form of protected speech in terms of like constitutional law and there's reasons for that.
Speech doesn't have to be political to have value.
Speech can be important culturally, artistically, etcetera.
And that's important because there's more to life and there is more to things that are valuable than just simply politics.
That's important.
And oftentimes these things are intertwined with one another anyway, because the way in which we express ourselves in a non neutral way in a public setting via like a TV show or something like that, is an important way in which we express who we are and express our identities and that's obviously an incredibly important thing to individual people.
So that's why we have protections in place for things like that.
But beyond that, I also think that this is just an illegal action.
Because this is clearly content based like targeted discrimination, amongst like a particular group.
So when you're trying to like like one of the biggest no no's in terms of freedom of speech is basically the government or the state, as like a when they're trying to ban speech, doesn't get to just pick and choose what speech it likes and what speech it doesn't like.
Because it basically gives rise to like the definition of prejudice in that the government gets to decide what the narrative is, the government gets to decide what's acceptable for a population to listen to, and that's absolutely ridiculous because that's not how it should work.
The people get to decide what they want to hear.
And if you don't want to listen to something then you just turn it off or you block it or something like that.
But that doesn't mean that something shouldn't be accessible to people who want to see it, who wants to enjoy it.
And that goes into the final thing that I'm going to talk about, which is why this is just an absolutely ridiculous thing.
And the first thing is that this is going to piss off a lot of people because a lot of people like reality TV and for good reason.
Reality TV isn't merely the scapegoat of like jersey shores, something like that, where it's seen as just like a plague on our society in terms of like stupidity.
It's an incredibly diverse area and there's like a huge niches to it.
Like you could have like like rupaul's drag race, you could have like cutthroat kitchen, like you have like skin wars, you have obviously things like the jersey shore too.
Like there's literally endless ways of reality TV shows.
And a lot of different people get different kinds of pleasure out of it because it's such a diverse genre.
And just trying to say as like a blanket: " all reality TV is bad.
All reality TV is worthy of the same condemnation. "
Is absolutely ridiculous.
Because it's an incredibly diverse genre that a whole lot of people enjoy.
And that goes into the last thing, which is that this isn't going to solve anything.
Any argument against reality TV, that you could be doing something else that's more productive, that it that it's actively bad because it's like a drain on like society's brains or something like that, there's always going to be some kind of alternative that's just as bad if not worse.
There's an endless way in like a technological age for people distract themselves with silly things.
If it's not going to be reality TV it's going to be something else, so do not ban reality TV.