We should end affirmative action and we should replace it with a class based alternative which takes into account socio-economic status instead of merely the identity of the individual whether it's racial, religious or what have you.
And I think that ultimately this is going to be a lot more affective for actually helping with social mobility for disadvantaged groups and it's also going to be more feasible politically and better able to be expanded.
So let's break all this down.
So I think that the first and most important thing to note is that in a lot of developing a developed countries and particularly in the united states you see that class and a lack of social mobility between classes is a rather big problem.
And the economic circumstances in which you're born into are likely going to be the same no matter what.
And this is often worse for racial minorities and the like but it's also something that is often present across racial lines and it's a lot more class based.
So the first benefit of doing it based on class is that you're going to be able to more precisely target that.
But additionally it's also important to note that when you do it rate when you create opportunities like for example jobs or a college opportunities and things like that purely on the basis of race as opposed to also taking class into consideration you're more likely going to have the most advantaged people within individual groups being the best off and not actually bringing up broader swaths of the population.
So for example in the same way in that white people are more likely going to have access to things like SAT preps or things like that or more money to do things like extra curricular activities that can look more impressive on a college education in addition to that being a factor on racial lines it's also a factor on class lines.
So if you came from a more middle class or affluent black family you're going to have a comparative advantage getting into an elite university compared to someone who came from a poor family and that's not really good at all because the entire point of of a lot of these programs is to try to help social mobility and to help create more of a diversity.
And this is interesting because while you may be able to get diversity as a result of affirmative action you're not really going to get as much of a diversity of classes in the diversity of experiences when you're predominantly going to be able to you predominantly going to end up taking people who occupied a similar socioeconomic status is obviously there's exceptions that but oddly people with regardless of race people are still going to who have more resources be better able to do up and therefore get more limited and competitive spots.
But next thing that I wanna talk about is the political popularity of this comparatively.
Because I think that while it's largely unjust for race based affirmative action gets a bad reputation in a lot of ways and it becomes a politically contentious issue which makes it more difficult to expand it as broadly as you should given the scope of socio-economic divides and racial divides in earnings and things like that in america and other places.
So this is important because these programs need to be a lot more expensive and the way to make that more popular is to make it so you're helping people who are not very well off economically regardless of their race and I think that this is largely going to help a lot of minorities as well because they oftentimes because of racism and discrimination do tend to have worse off economic prospects and there's definitely a divide so I think that there's still going to be a good deal of representation in lot of these jobs what you're doing is you're making it so that it's more open and therefore it's more popular to expand it which I think is good.
So for those reasons end affirmative action.