We should decrease drug testing.
We should substantially decrease drug testing.
And the first reason why we should do that is because it's a ridiculous thing to do and it's completely ineffective.
So if you actually look at scientific evidence about what causes drug addiction oftentimes, a lot of times it's just based on like biological addiction, trying substances and becoming dependent on them.
And moreover it's oftentimes also because the circumstance that people live in.
A lot of people that are addicted to drugs are doing so to get over some kind of deep pain or doing so as a way of escaping a life that isn't really a very good life.
A lot of times it's people who are in poverty, people who are homeless, people who are veterans who are faced with post traumatic stress disorder, people who are trying to escape from other mental health problems that isn't being sufficiently funded are treated, oftentimes this is the root of a whole lot of drug abuse in our country.
So you know what's a really good way to make that problem a whole lot worse?
Increased social isolation.
Because now people can't try out for a sports team because they fail a drug test or they can't be a part of a club or an extracurricular activity because they failed a drug test.
So you're probably more likely to socially isolate that person, make sure that person is more likely to maybe do something that's bad, more likely to something to do something like join like a drug trade or something like that.
What's another good thing?
How about depriving people of economic opportunity?
Because people who smoke weed or do molly every once in a while or have taken shrooms before or whatever people do sometimes as a recreation on their weekends, because people are you deprive them of economic opportunity just because people live their life in a certain way.
That also seems like a really good way of making sure that people are only going to feel more depressed, that people are going to feel worse about themselves.
And you are probably going to only further fuel a cycle of drug addiction and abuse.
So I really feel like if your goal is to really like stop people from doing drugs, you want to encourage people to actually get help.
You want to encourage people to get treatment.
And a really horrible way of doing that is just further building up stigmas, further socially isolating people and further depriving people of economic opportunity.
And all that's going to happen because of drugs tests.
This isn't a matter of like: " oh well you know on drug addicts doing like various kinds of jobs blah blah blah blah blah ".
Like if you're doing drugs during work and you're doing a bad job then that's like a separate reason for you to fire somebody.
But drug tests are designed in such a way to essentially police what people are doing outside of the workplace or the sports team or whatever context they're being used in.
Which brings me to the next point of discussion which is that this is a horrible violation of people's basic liberty to live their life in the way that they want to do.
Because I think that, when you're talking about some drugs maybe like heroin or cocaine, maybe it's worthwhile to talk about drug addiction and the serious harms that this does to people.
But there's also a whole lot of drugs that are criminalized that aren't necessarily all that bad and we shouldn't really judge people or deprive them of an ability to use them.
The obvious example is marijuana which is still criminalized by the federal government in america in most of the states and is also criminal in most of the world, and it's obviously something that isn't really worthy of our time even.
It's not worthy of the money and it certainly worthy of the moral condemnation.
Because people have the right to do things that don't really hurt anybody else.
And if you're talking about different things.
Whether it's like hallucinogenic mushrooms or LSD or Molly or ecstasy at a party or something like that, oftentimes you can have opinions about whether or not you want to do it, opinions about whether or not you think that it's a good thing maybe, but at the end of the day this is other people's bodies in this is other people's minds.
And if there's anything that we should have control over, it's our minds and our bodies and we should be able to do what we want with them.
So for all those reasons we should not have drug testing.