We should prohibit international adoption, for two big reasons.
First because it creates a perverse incentive against spending in domestic adoption infrastructure, which is vastly preferable to international adoption, and secondarily, because it can it carries a large degree of risk as being a front for bad things, like human trafficking.
So, let's talk about these things.
First, we'll talk about the perverse incentives that are created.
So, there's generally going to be, in most countries, political will against spending too much on adoption things.
Whether it's foster care systems, or similar infrastructure that makes it so that people, who are put up for adoption, are actually able to live good childhoods, and be prepared for later life.
So, the problem is is that, there is already going to be very few people that advocates for them, a lot of these these kids aren't going to have like political rights, or political agency, and they're not going to get that until after they're no longer really affected by the system, and it's also oftentimes difficult to find people who, on the list of issues, they want to advocate for, on like a social justice or movement level, to advocate for the like not not like massive, but still seizable number of people who are affected by the adoption system.
There's also general incentives against public spending on a lot of matters, and things like that, especially in developing countries, where overwhelmingly where the people are being put out for international adoption, by and large, you see people being adopted from developing countries, or maybe places in like, eastern europe, you don't see like americans being put up for adoption, and like a family in like namibia is adopting them, or angola things like that.
So this is important, because what this does is essentially creates an excuse for governments, and for society to let down these people, who are put up for adoption, but aren't one of the few lucky people that gets adopted by an international family.
Because, what it ultimately creates is like a where you can just push the problem to other countries, try and push the problem away, create a system that caters to international adoption.
But it creates an incentive in that, you're not actually going to fix more root problems, which I think is pretty bad.
I also think that, this is going to amplify a whole lot of biases, that are going to exist, because keep in mind that, when we are talking about international adoption, a lot of people are going to have certain preferences, maybe they're going to have preferences for, like, men over women, or things like that, and I think that a lot of these kinds of things, the people who get left behind, they could end up being minorities, they could end up being people who are otherwise disadvantaged, and that's not something that is very good, and they're not the people who should be getting the least support from the system.
But I think that the other thing that, it's important to talk about is the risk of human trafficking and the like, because keep in mind that, it's oftentimes very difficult to put checks in place.
Background checks can only get you so far, and especially if you haven't been caught for doing something yet, then you're not gonna have any kind of criminal record.
So, only the most obvious people are actually getting out of these kinds of things.
So keep in mind that, you're talking about taking people, like you could possibly be taking, like, infants from developing parts of the world, and putting them in the hands of who knows who?
Just about anyone that's willing to accept them, because there's always going to be more people eligible for adoption than people willing to take them.
And there's always going to be this pressure to push more people out into families that are willing to take them.
So, I think that this does create a lot of system where it's possible that these children won't be treated right, that these parents aren't going to be all that great, at the very best cases, or it may be more widespread parts of things like human trafficking, which are incredibly widespread, if under discussed, problems in international society, and the like.
So for all those reasons, we should prohibit international adoption.