We should not increase use of personalized medicine for a few reasons.
The first of which is that medicines that are standard probably work for a lot of people.
So what do we mean by this?
By and large in order for something to go on a market and be called medicine it has to go through an extensive trial process.
It has to go through like FDA testing all all kinds of labs and peer review process and it could take years for drugs to get on the market.
And I think that this is important because one of the big steps that something has to go through to get to market is that it should work for more people and it should work for a large number of people because if a drug only works for some people and not others, or if a drug could maybe give some people a harmful side effect but it works perfectly for other people, it creates a lot of indecision in the process in actually assigning drugs.
So in the best of cases you are going to be just wasting somebody's time when somebody could be sick or vulnerable giving them a drug that may not work and then just say " okay well why don't we try this drug instead ".
Whereas in the worst of circumstances, if you're just like focusing on personalizing drugs for each individual person rather than trying to standardize drugs that work for most people, it can also make it so that you can give somebody a drug that has a harmful side effect that maybe works for a different person.
So you really want to make sure that drugs are as broadly accessible and workable as possible otherwise you could be wasting people's time or wasting people's health.
But beyond that, I also think there's a huge financial consequence in this and the biggest financial consequence is that obviously medicines are expensive.
So if you have to like have your own individualized medical strategy where you have like more niche drugs that you're taking that meet your specific body type or physiology or whatever, those drugs are probably going to cost more because drug companies are going to see that like there's no like there's not as much of an economies of scale factor that takes place where you can spread the costs of the drug across more all the research and development costs of that drug can be spread amongst more people and this is a problem because drugs oftentimes have rather high and rather static r and d costs where all of the cost that it takes to develop a drug to go through FDA testing and things like that are a lot of expenses and the drugs get recouped, that value gets recouped because it's going to be used by a lot of people.
So that allows you to try to at least keep drug prices down a little bit even though they're already pretty high.
This would all make that problem even worse because when you have dozens of different kinds of drugs on the market or medical strategies that are going to be on the market that are going to be catering towards individual people, they're probably going to see these go up in expenses which means that people are less likely going to be able to get covered.
People are more likely going to find medical treatment to be even less affordable than it already is which will probably not be very good.
So for all those reasons, decrease use of personalized medical strategies.