We should introduce covenant marriage because it will lead to much more responsible marriage decisions, which is incredibly important.
So it's probably not news to anyone that divorce rates are incredibly high right now.
I think it's more than half of all marriages end up in divorce.
And that's pretty bad for a lot of reasons.
Its first bad because if you have kids this could have bad consequences for kids especially if parents end up having a very messy divorce or living far apart or things like that.
It can damage the relationship that kids have with their parents, with other siblings, and things like that, which can have like bad psychological consequences.
So you definitely don't want that because it's essentially parents inflicting harm onto kids.
It also has horrible financial consequences.
Besides the fact of just like spending lots of money, it can result in like messy fights over who gets what and things like that, unless there's a prenup, which oftentimes there isn't, so there can be a lot of harm there.
There can be consequences in terms of work, for example if somebody like took a, like and it's usually the woman because the way society works, hasn't been working for a long time because they're taking care of kids, and now suddenly there is a divorce and a lot of work experience is just like not there because they left the workforce early on, that can have like a lot of social consequences.
So like there's a lot of reasons why if you're going to go into a marriage, you wanna make sure that the marriage is actually going to last, the marriage is actually going to be stable.
And this is incredibly important to a wide variety of factors.
So what's the best way to make sure marriages are more likely to be longer lasting and stable?
And the clearest thing is just make it so that marriage isn't actually as easy to get into or get out of and that people are actually taking more time to consider the consequences of marriage before they get into it.
And I think that's where covenant marriage comes in.
Because with a covenant marriage, because it's like there's additional contracting requirements before you like enter the marriage, and you're recognizing the fact that it's a lot harder to exit the marriage, you're much more likely going to really carefully consider whether marriage is the best thing.
And that's okay because marriage isn't for anyone.
In fact nobody needs marriage, marriage is just some kind of thing that people like culturally nowadays.
There's no real value to marriage beyond what you put into it as like an as like can individual person.
So we shouldn't be encouraging people to get married in a lot of ways.
And if if marriage is harder to get into and get out of people are likely to take it more responsibly.
So for all of those reasons, we should introduce covenant marriage.