We should abolish capital punishment because it's a barbaric way of punishing people.
It's irreversible, which is bad if you wrongfully convict somebody.
It deters nothing, and it's really expensive and an inefficient way to punish somebody.
So, let's start by talking about why it's just a barbaric and inhumane way of punishing people.
And I think that this starts from the basic premise that no matter who's doing the murdering, murder is immoral, human life has some kind of value to it and that we should be focusing on rehabilitation and second chances in almost all circumstances and , at the very least, we shouldn't be proliferating murder in any kind of way.
And I think, in the most basic sense, this just comes from the like the idea that human life has some kind of value and that there is nothing that somebody can do that is just so absolutely horrible that they just simply do not have any kind of claim to life anymore and that there's always a way in which like you can try to like work with people, try to help people, rehabilitate people, or give people second chances.
There is all kinds of people throughout like history who have done horrible things and, sure, in a lot of cases, you can't really do all that much to rehabilitate those people, then I guess you're going to throw those people in prison for the rest of their lives, but a whole lot of people change over time.
People oftentimes do change over time.
Like you ask any person if they're the same person now as they were five years ago or ten years ago or twenty years ago, you're probably going to have most of those people say, " no, " and that's because people do change over time.
And I feel like just the murdering of somebody for something that they did at one point in their life just seems like an inherently unfair and immoral thing to do, because their life has value and that they always can become a different person, a better person, at some point in their life.
But beyond that, I also think that there is this is obviously horrible if you wrongfully convict somebody, because then you're literally murdering an innocent person.
And this is horribly uncommon.
Like, in places like america, there's entire organizations, like the innocence project, that are that are solely devoted to getting wrongfully convicted people off of death row because it's such a commonplace thing.
Whether it's because of rampant eyewitness misidentification because people are, well, oftentimes people are really bad at being eyewitnesses, especially for people of different races, people oftentimes can't tell the difference between black people like different features and things like that.
People are oftentimes difficult at judging features, especially at night, especially under duress.
Oftentimes DNA , even like they're not not just DNA, but oftentimes forensic testing can be inexact or flawed, fingerprints can be partial matches at best and sometimes can have like like wide error margins, most arson sciences or like ballistic sciences on guns are just junk sciences.
Oftentimes people wrongfully confess because they're under pressure, because they're being overcharged with something, because they don't think that they'll get a fair trial because juries are oftentimes racists or willing to convict people, because prosecutors are more willing to make sure they convict somebody, anyone, than risk a case going cold and their reputations being on the line.
There's tons and tons of ways in which wrongful convictions happen, which is why you get so many people that are exonerated that were on death row, and that's why the innocence project has been doing its work for such a long time, and it's going to keep being able to do its work for such a long time.
Additionally it doesn't it doesn't really deter anything.
A lifelong prison sentence is a pretty horrible thing and certainly a good deterrent for most people.
And when you're talking about murderers, when you're talking about possibly terrorists, when you're talking about drug kingpins, you're talking about people who are probably already at peace with the fact that in their line of work, they may die.
I feel like these are people who are uniquely at peace with their own mortality and probably aren't going to be deterred by the fact that the state might execute them.
So for all of those reasons, we should abolish capital punishment.