We should not protect edward snowden because edward snowden broke the law, he deserves to be punished for that and even if you agree with the political reasons behind what he did you can't just make exceptions in the law on a case by case basis like that without descending into injustice.
So let's start by talking about why the nature of our legal system necessitates that snowden be held to the same standard as everyone else and justice must be served.
So if you look at what snowden did, obviously its political in nature.
He under covered widespread government surveillance that a lot of people didn't know about and that a lot of people saw as an invasion of privacy and there's plenty of legitimate reasons for that.
However, this isn't the way that we should evaluate this.
So let's start by saying about what in in in a world in which this was say troop movements being leaked, technological secrets on military technology being leaked, or maybe the identities of US spies all of those would be things that you would definitely under like treasonous acts are various like acts regarding national security and mishandling of classified information be subject to legal punishment under it.
And a lot of those cases may seem a lot easier and that's only because of political ideology associated with that.
Nobody wants to see troops die because their troop movements were leaked, nobody wants to see spies get killed, things like that.
So why shouldn't this be any different?
Because at the very core of the analysis the same laws are being broken.
You sign a contract, you promise that you're not going to you swear an oath that you're not going to release classified information, information that could undermine US national security and if you do it you're going to get punished.
And the reality is that if you hold different people to different standards based on the just the political nature of what they released, then you're treating people who do similar things very differently and that's very much not just.
In a democratic society where we have legal protections in place like equal protection in place where you have to treat like cases alike it's one of the like most basic ideas behind precident.
It's that if people do similar things if the same laws apply then the outcome should be the same and that's what make sure that you don't just get arbitrary and capricious outcomes that can be different on a case by case basis it's how you make sure that people know what the actual punishment for a crime are going to be that they know that justice is actually consistent which is really like a very fundamental and basic thing that's important to society.
But beyond that the specific offenses that snowden did are really bad too.
Terrorism is obviously something that's very bad that we need to make sure that we're combating against and when you take away the ability of the US to just spy on a bunch of people possibly spy on terrorists even a homegrown terrorists because oftentimes people in america can commit acts of terrorism particularly like white nationalists for example like like the recent shooting at parkland where there is like definitely a social media trail that was evidence which mass data surveillance can like do a good part of also there is like the shooting that happened in the black in like the black church by dylann roof I believe there's obviously instances where these where american citizens can be guilty of things in which surveillance can maybe help deter or prevent such acts.
So undermining this system can definitely do a whole lot of harm to US national security.
So for all those reasons, we should not protect edward snowden.