We should limit genetic testing.
The circumstances under which you maybe could be allowed to do it would be only if there's a direct health or safety reason for you to do so.
So maybe if you're trying to screen for some kind of genetic disorder, some kind of disease, something that you would need to get treatment for or medical help for, those could be acceptable grounds under which you could do so.
But otherwise we should limit them.
So let's start by talking about why.
So I think that by and large we certainly should never make it such that people feel in any way coerced to take some kind of test.
So even if it's something like a paternity test or something like that, we should make it so that people don't feel compelled to give up their DNA because DNA is in a lot of ways a really intimate part of the body that is being taken away from people.
It's literally your biological blueprint.
If somebody has your DNA they could know almost anything about you.
They can know they can know like what you look like.
They can know they could possibly even deduce some of your like biological preferences in some ways.
They can deduce a lot of things cause pretty much everything is in our genetic code.
Like everything that makes us who we are is in our DNA at some in some way or some manner.
So when people have your DNA, it's it's incredibly coercive.
So you should definitely make it's about whether it's like if it's the state that wants your DNA or anything like that, we should make it so that only in like extreme cases you're allowed to take DNA from somebody.
In the same way that like we don't like force you can't force people to undergo like medical procedures under most circumstances, this would be one of those things under those circumstances.
As far as voluntary genetic testing, this is also probably something that we should certainly limit and definitely regulate because there's huge privacy concerns at risk and if we don't limit that's, if we don't regulate this, we can have a lot of problems.
A big one is that if you give your if you give your DNA maybe to a corporation or some kind of business because you want to know like you're like fifth generation uncle on your or whatever, actually came from like like georgia instead of like alabama or or actually came from like north africa instead of like the mediterranean or something like that.
Like you just want to know these things.
This can come with a good deal of risk because especially in especially given that like corporations are widespread practice of like selling aspects about people's identity already on the internet.
So like the way in which facebook and google make a lot of their money is by like selling your digital preferences to companies so that they can better target you in their marketing.
You can foresee a world in which corporations maybe if there's not proper privacy checks put in place and limits put in place, can sell information about biological preferences, about like possible biological problems so like maybe you like they know biologically you have a back problem so now back problem like doctors are going to advertise to you or something like that.
So it's very important to make sure that like to make sure that we're protecting people's identity and protecting people's like literal blueprint for your bodies that you should limit genetic testing.