We should not adopt socialism because socialism violates people's rights en masse and also socialism isn't a very good practical solution to actually getting the best economic growth that you can.
So let's start by talking about why socialism is inherently rights violative.
The first things that the main basis of socialism is essentially government redistribution of wealth via like, usually it comes in the form of like heavy taxation and the creation of social welfare programs and things like that.
So, these things, first and foremost, are necessarily often expansive, especially if we're going to be adopting socialism broadly.
So what they require is quite massive government taxation and government seizure of property.
Because in and a lot of ways the individual ownership of property and the idea of private property is basically like the antithesis of socialism and collective ownership.
So this is bad because you should have a right to your stuff.
If you build something that somebody else didn't build, you're the person who did that so you should have some kind of right to it.
If you create some kind of invention you should have, and other people find it very useful, you should be able to be rewarded for a lot of the hard work that you put into, things like that.
But in addition to that, I think beyond the fact that just like you have a right to ownership over the things that you create, I think that the state, certainly nor does the state nor anyone else certainly doesn't have a right to any of those things.
The state does not have a right to your property.
Even if like yours, even if like in some world you don't have a right to it, the state certainly does have not have any real right to your property.
The state didn't put the work into it in the way you did.
And moreover, the state using its coercive force and the threat of violence or imprisonment or being a law breaker, essentially forces you into stealing your property.
It's no different than if somebody were to put a gun to your head, and therefore the state isn't legitimate in taking your stuff away unless you just consent into it.
And additionally I don't think that other people in society have a right to the benefits of your property either.
Because like I said before, they didn't actually do anything to make it possible, its creation possible in the first place.
They don't really have any claim to it whatsoever.
But additionally socialism is also bad for outcomes.
For a couple of reasons: first and foremost because the free market is an incredibly effective way to ensure economic growth.
There's a reason why the rise of capitalism has coincided with a revolution and a change of human history in the way in which society is progressing.
I'm not gonna pretend it's always in the most equal ways, nor is it always the prettiest thing ever, but at the end of the day it does bring the largest amount of progress for the largest amount of people.
So that's something that has going for us, which is pretty good.
But additionally having socialism gives you a lot of opportunities for corruption, due to the consolidation of power, essentially, in the hands of non competitive government sector.
Which makes it much more likely that you're going to have like entrenched interests, you're not going to be as responsive to the market, you're not going to be as responsive to constituents and things like that.
Because in a lot of ways businesses have to be almost more accountable than politicians do in a lot of context, because you need to rely, like basically our lifeblood is relying on business and being able to get their interest.
But when it comes to politics, oftentimes the political calculis get more complicated than that.
So for all those reasons, do not adopt socialism.