We should introduce a flax flat tax because a flat tax will be good for business and it is also more moral.
So let's start by talking about why a flat tax will be good for business.
And the big reason for this, and if you listen to incredibly reputable and highly intelligent individuals like paul reine or other republicans, you'll understand that if you have taxes that are too high on rich people or corporations then those hugely benevolent corporations and rich people won't invest.
They won't make new jobs and they'll simply park their money offshore in in like the cayman islands or in panama or other places like that.
So then you won't be able to tax any amount of the money, because they'll just put it all elsewhere or they'll take advantage of legal loopholes or things like that.
So in order to incentivize our benevolent financial overlords to give more money to investing in public goods and services, investing in healthcare, in education and other kinds of things that we like, you know functioning roads and public transportation, in order to do that we have to make sure that the taxes are low enough so we don't dis-incentivize these kinds of things.
And this is where a great the flat tax comes in is a great solution.
Because when there's a flat tax and you are going to have a nice lower tax, because you know you can't possibly have an incredibly high tax on poor people, like sixty percent, so you're certainly not going to have in a particularly high tax on rich people over their corporation's wealth.
So this is necessarily likely going to result in a system where taxes are a whole lot lower.
And that's just going to be great for a whole lot of people.
Because now you're going to incentivize people to actually invest their wealth, because now they'll have more wealth so since they'll have more wealth they can invest that wealth, and things like that.
But additionally I also think that there is a moral imperative to have a flat tax.
And this moral imperative comes into play because poor people or worse off people financially are people who are primarily using a lot of the welfare system anyway.
They're the people who are relying on public education, they're the people who are relying on medicaid and all other kinds of government services.
Public transportation because if you're rich you can just use your car things or a or your private jet.
So this is so on a moral level since poor people are more likely to be taking from the from the pool of government money, they should still have to contribute their fair share.
And this is where the flat tax comes in is a wonderful balancing mechanism.
Because while rich people will still have to pay more, since , like if you have like a twenty percent tax on a thousand dollars you're paying more money than if you give up twenty percent of a hundred dollars in terms of actual dollar amount.
So it's still going to result in people who have more money paying more money, but now it balances to make sure that the people that don't have that much money are paying their fair share.
So for all of those reasons we should adopt a flat tax.