We should limit the right of asylum because of issues of feasibility and because of issues of fairness.
So let's start by talking about issues the feasibility.
And this is important because the sad reality is is that too many people are eligible for asylum.
You can get asylum for a lot of reasons.
You can get it because of religious persecution, you could get it because of racial or ethnic persecution, you can get it because of gender based persecution, you can get it because of political persecution.
And that's really important, how wide it is.
Because when you're talking about all of those different types of persecution, you're talking about likely billions of people that face one form or another of persecution.
And that's important because the places in which these people would want to go to, developed countries, like places like the united states, simply don't have the capacity to take in all of these people who are being persecuted and while it's like obviously a really sad thing, it's just simply the way reality is.
Because there's first of all like space issues.
You can't just like put people in like the middle of some open space of land in wyoming.
You'll have to give these people you have to give people who immigrate resources, you have to like help them acclimate, you have to possibly they might be dependent on social services and things like that.
There is a lot of like resources that go up into this.
And that's a problem because when you have asylum that exists it's essentially just like a free pass in order to get into a country.
And you can bypass normal immigration processes.
So I think that that's like a big problem.
But the second thing is about an issue of fairness.
Because when we're talking about the ability to basically bypass the normal immigration process, to just get like accepted to the new country, I think this is unfair to a lot of people who aren't necessarily persecuted but are still pretty poor off.
Because just because there's not somebody trying to kill you on the basis of your religion or more likely someone who's like not giving you the right to vote or the right to like maybe get some kind of job because of your religion or something like that, isn't really all that fair compared to somebody who simply doesn't have economic opportunities in their country.
Somebody who simply is like in a really bad situation in their country.
Because there's a lot of people.
Like anyone who's emigrating is, well I'm not anyone, but most people who are emigrating are doing it because they want to have better chances, a better life in a new place.
And it's not really fair that some people get to essentially just because of like , they just because they happen to fall under a category of asylum they get to go into a place.
Like a lot of people when they emigrate, especially like like in america, a lot of people immigrate to america illegally and sometimes people don't even know they qualify for asylum.
And but they're emigrating anyway.
Because like people oftentimes emigrate for more murky reasons than just like a black and white like you're falling into a group of asylum or not.
And that's like important because the people who don't qualify asylum, especially when you can only take in a limited number of people because of limited resources, the people who wouldn't traditionally qualify for asylum deserve a chance at like deserve like a more equitable chance in immigration as well.
So for all those reasons we should limit the right of asylum.