We should not further exploit sustainable energies because the status quo is perfectly manageable and much more economically viable.
So let's start by talking about the costs that would be associated with adopting further exploiting sustainable energies, and I think that they would be quite high.
A lot of people underestimate what would this would actually look like and there's a lot of reasons why sustainable energy would be so expensive.
First, you would have to completely transform the energy grid in a lot of countries.
In a lot of countries, energy grids aren't designed to deal with sustainable energies like green technologies because green technologies are much more volatile in the amount of energy that is going to be going through the system at any given time.
So for example when it's sunny outside your and if you're like relying on solar energy then you're probably going to have a spike in energy levels so you have to be able to like essentially like temper that and disperse that energy at more like consistent times.
Same with something like wind energy and this is very different from say coal power or oil power where you can have like a very consistent and stable supply of energy that doesn't really spike and at various times so the actual supply of energy can be much more stable so you have to like create energy grids to adapt to that.
And moreover there's also going to have to be like differences in like decentralization because a lot of like the ways in which the energy grid exists in the status quo is like highly centralized so that you get like oil from one part of the world, you put it into like when you refine it, then you like put it into like a power plant or something like that, and the power plant sends out the energy across the grid.
But that would be very different from say clusters of like wind energy or solar energy or things like that which is more decentralized.
Moreover this would also just be expensive in terms of the products themselves because green technologies are far less efficient.
Solar energy, wind energy, all of those are is less efficient so you will need more of the energy to make up for it.
But beyond just needing but beyond just like the energy being less efficient in and of itself the technologies are also just more expensive.
It's more expensive tp put up solar panel manufacture and put up solar panels or wind turbines or build a hydroelectric dam than it is to simply extract coal and things like that.
And all those things are incredibly important because especially in developing countries that don't have a whole as many economic resources that can be a really big problem for them.
But moreover I also don't think that climate change is all that important a thing that we have to really take active measures to resolve because the climate's been changing for a really long time it gets hotter and it gets warmer people have a tendency to over exaggerate individual effects and their links to climate change so like you look at things like people like to say oh we had a really bad hurricane season last year so that must be because of climate change but that's really like a very poor way of looking at it because we also didn't really have many hurricanes the decade before but there were a lot more hurricanes a decade before that and moreover we've also had some winters that are the hottest in history in some that are the coldest that are some of the coldest ever like within various streches of recent history so it's very difficult to really extrapolate meaningful environmental change based on human causes.
So for all those reasons, do not further exploit sustainable energy.