We should not introduce school vouchers because it would be horrible for public education.
It would essentially be us giving up on public education.
That's not good or fair.
So there's a couple of reasons why introducing school vouchers would be awful for public education.
The first of which is that there is the first problem with school vouchers is that there is there's going to be too few of them unless you totally are redirecting tons of funding towards private schools.
At a point where public schools are essentially becoming obsolete, which is not really remotely feasible, you're going to be leaving a lot of people out.
You're going to be giving a select, lucky few people, who happen to win a lottery or happen to get in based on like talent, because maybe they had parents who better prepared them for tests or things like that or the like.
These individuals are going to get to go to private schools which may very well be better schools in the conventional sense.
But it also means that they're going to be leaving a whole lot of people behind, because there's just simply not going to be enough spots available for these vouchers compared to all the people who would need them.
So, if you want to truly craft an effective solution to public to education problems in america, you don't want to focus on trying to keep feeding people into better-performing private schools.
You want to help fix public education.
And I think that one of the big things is that there's this assumption that one of the reasons why public educations are worse performing is because the people who go there are just not as capable, which I think is rather harmful.
One of the I I think that private schools probably have higher performing students is because they tend to come from backgrounds where they probably grew up in wealthier households where they had better access to tutors, better access to academic and educational materials, they had parents who are able to more easily emphasize school.
They didn't have to worry about as many other things, like supporting siblings or having a job while they're in school.
They grew up in better neighborhoods oftentimes, and all of these things are much more likely to have an effect on early childhood outcomes than simply going to a public school and things like that, going to a private school.
So I really don't think that you're even actually making people's lives all that better in the like in like the bigger picture, if you're emphasizing private education over public education.
So now let's talk more about why I think that it's going to be so harmful for public education to have school vouchers.
You're going to be removing a a good deal of students, possibly some students who may be higher performing, and could result in a loss of funding.
This could result in a a loss of like pupils, and this also results in a loss of political will and a lot loss of focus on meeting the needs of public education.
And this keeps having a positive feedback loop where it results in services getting worse and worse, teachers getting paid less and less, books being older and older, technology being outdated and under available, and all of those kinds of things.
And what that does is it results in schools keep getting worse because they're not able to like meet the resources and demands of their community, and that's not fair.
The amount of money that you could be spending on school vouchers is money that you can be spending on funding public school systems.
And private schools are oftentimes far less cost effective, more expensive than public education, so that's not really all that fair.
So for all those reasons, don't introduce school vouchers.