We should not prohibit tower blocks.
Tower blocks are great.
We should keep building them.
Maybe we should even build more of them.
So let's start by talking about why we absolutely should not prohibit tower blocks.
And the first one is because they are just outright necessary.
We've seen an increasing trend towards urbanization over time and growth of cities because in a more global tech oriented economy it makes the most sense to focus on smaller clustered economic centers then to try to spread over a wider less concentrated areas.
So if you're going to keep building in a city there's really only two options you build out you built up.
So building up is just simply better than building out for a lot of reasons.
First and foremost building out makes transportation more difficult because you have to build out more roads build out more public transportation build out more services and the like on all kinds of things.
Building out is worse for the environment for those reasons because all of that further sprawl can lead to habitat destruction ecosystem destruction more urban sprawl things like that that are bad it also means that you're going to see likely people be pushed out farther away from city centers so it's a lot less convenient and it's more annoying to have sprawl verses just going taller going taller is a whole lot better.
Because when you go up you aren't disrupting the environment anymore you can build in more convenient locations and all those things.
And this is additionally good because this can be specifically used to combat problems housing prices.
So if you aren't building a lot of highrises or power blocks then you're going to see more in a further exaggeration of an already existing problem which is housing prices in cities becoming incredibly unaffordable for most people in the middle class and certainly a lot of people who are in the lower class and this is a lot of the things behind gentrification where people get pushed out of neighborhoods and this is a really big problem.
But if you build more tower blocks if you keep building up the area and there's more of a supply of homes then the prices of these homes are more likely to go down so it's better able to actually satisfy the demand for housing so you are not going to see such a great glut of housing that housing isn't really accessible to people.
But also tower blocks are good for a quality of life and enjoyment because like I was saying earlier about like how building out is annoying because it's sprawl and it's inconvenient because you're farther away from things the flip side of that is that if you build up it's easier to be close to things.
So it's easier to be closer to like central parks.
It's easier to be closer to central recreational areas central business areas central economic centers central areas of public transportation.
So when you build up it's better you're a much better able to plan and organize and live your life in a more convenient way.
You're also more likely going to have access to important things like food grocery stores or more likely to have access to things like hospitals or emergency services and things like that.
Because when it's a higher concentration of people it's more important that that big group of people get served and you're just geographically closer to them.
So for all those reasons we should not prohibit tower blocks.