We should decrease the use of automation.
Because automation is incredibly detrimental to people's livelihoods and results in widespread unemployment and the inability for a lot of people to find jobs.
So let's start by talking about how exactly this happens.
How automation makes this a reality.
And I think it's very straightforward.
Businesses have an incentive to make as much money as possible, obviously.
And one of the biggest expenses that businesses have is employer is like their employees their workers.
So there's always going to be an incentive to replace workers with machines because you don't have to pay the machine any money at all so it's in its way way way cheaper.
So as long as we actively embrace automation and we don't have any like incentives or norms against it you're going to see an ever continuing trend towards automation.
So this means rather than just like going beyond assembly line manufacturing and other kinds of machines to aid workers, you see machines out right being able to replace workers.
You see machines taking over very basic human tasks or things like driving cars for example.
And this can have incredibly widespread consequences that I don't think most people are able to comprehend.
When you think about what the single largest type of job in a country like america is.
It's truck driver.
And when you broaden that out to include things like also driving cars for other people, you're talking about huge swaths of the economy like millions and millions of jobs that are going to disappear.
And when you expand this to all of the other areas where artificial intelligence and automation and a combination of the two especially it can threaten massive amounts of jobs.
So now that we've established that a lot of jobs are going to be threatened by this why do we think that's obviously a bad thing.
And this is that a lot of people who are going to be threatened by automation are more uniquely vulnerable people they're people who engage in like maybe like physical labor and don't have maybe skills to do like other kind of like nonphysical tasks necessarily they may be people who are like older so it's harder to transition your job because you've been doing it for so long and a lot of companies don't want to hire like older employees sometimes they'd rather invest in like younger employees.
And this creates a lot of problems for people because if you're not able to find a new job or if you're not able to find a job that's as good as the one that you previously had that you lost you're not going to be able to support yourself.
You're not going to be able to support your family.
You can't put food on the paper of food on the table or shelter or anything like that.
So that creates a whole lot of harm.
So the final thing would be just like as far as a moral principle is concerned I think that we should be as a society ready to accept that some things are going cost a little more that cars and phones and things are gonna cost a little bit more money.
If it means that millions of people aren't going to have their livelihood threatened.
So for all those reasons we should decrease our use of automation.