We should not increase immigration to the united states, because immigration is very bad, it's very bad for the economy, it's very bad for public safety, and it's very bad for cultural unity as well.
So, let's start by talking about why immigration is very bad for the economy.
The first reason immigration is bad for the economy is because, it results in a loss of jobs for people within the country, and I think it's obvious that that that government should have a primary obligation to the economic betterment of its own people, before the economic betterment of other people around the world.
And I think that immigration hurts all kinds of jobs, it hurts skilled and unskilled jobs.
It hurts unskilled jobs obviously, in the fact that immigrants are oftentimes willing to work for much lower wages than other people, and especially if they're illegal immigrants, they aren't necessarily going to be subject to minimum wage laws, and other kinds of things.
So, that's going to be very bad for a lot of local and domestic workers.
But additionally, immigration is also bad for skilled workers because when you have too much movement, when people from india, or china, or france, or anywhere else, can take high skill jobs in america, that also can result in a loss of higher skilled jobs.
So, like, a clear example of this could be maybe something like colleges, where if you go to a lot of good colleges in america, you see a lot of international students there, and that's interesting, because things like jobs and college spots another kinds of things are zero sum, in that when you give us a spot to somebody in the international community, that's a spot that is being taken away from somebody domestically, and I think that's a big problem, because it's not like we're living in some kind of perfect society in the united states, where we don't have our own problems, where we don't have our own poverty, our own lack of social mobility, and all these kinds of things, and I think that this is a another way of just restricting opportunities for people, and it probably just results in like the elite making more and more money.
But I think that this is also bad, because I also think that immigration is a drain on resources in a lot of ways, because oftentimes immigrants are either oftentimes immigrants come in, and there's an assimilation barrier, in that maybe you need to learn the language, maybe you're not able to do as many skilled labor positions at first, you're more likely going to need to be on public assistance, whatever.
All of those things result in more of a drain on the economy, and on public budgets, and that's certainly not good.
I also think that immigration is bad for safety, and it's bad for safety because, I don't know, a lot of people think it's bad for safety, it's bad for safety because there's not always valid enough checks in place to make sure that people aren't bringing in crime, or drugs, or whatever, especially if it's illegal immigration, because it's oftentimes difficult to enforce the entirety of the united states borders, oftentimes this can be more unsavory.
Finally, I think it is bad on a cultural level.
I think that a lot of people got a lot of value in nationality, and in like their americanness, and that's worse off when you lose a bit of an american cultural identity, or something like that.
So, for all those reasons, we should not increase immigration to the united states.