We should cancel the affordable care act because the affordable care act does more good than harm by masquerading by essentially disguising a continuation of corporate profits off of people's health as some kind of liberal solutions to the ills of our healthcare system.
And it lies to people by pretending that the solution to a broken healthcare system is merely a couple of patches to cover things like preexisting conditions, rather than a complete overhaul of the system to make it more in line with the really much better systems around the rest of the world.
That of a something like a single payer or otherwise government run healthcare system.
So I wanna start by talking about all the many bad aspects of the affordable care act that simply aren't fixed, but really big problems that have to be fixed.
First and foremost there is the major problem of healthcare simply being too expensive.
Too expensive first and foremost in that, under obama care this is been accelerated, premiums keep going up and are rapidly accelerating.
And this becomes more and more of a problem because as private actors are forced to take on more expenses when they have to cover people with preexisting conditions or things like that.
Because private corporations are only in it for the profit and not for any kind of altruistic good, like a government good or any kind of public service, what they'll do is they'll just pass those costs to consumers.
Consumers who are likely already strapped for cash and already probably don't have a whole lot of extra money that they can afford to spend on their healthcare bills.
And now these consumers are going to keep spending more and more money because nobody wants to take up the bill and accept the fact that sick people deserve adequate healthcare.
And and profit seeking corporations and insurance companies just keep passing that on.
I additionally also think that the affordable care act, by maintaining the predominance of private healthcare actors, doesn't actually allow a sufficient bargaining power to negotiate down healthcare expenses.
Because if you had a single payer for single payer healthcare, whether you're talking about drug prices or procedure prices or things like that, the there's gonna be much more negotiating power on the side of the people to actually make sure that healthcare services are affordable.
Which is how you get around the which is how you get out of the problems of the same drugs in canada, from the exact same production facilities, from the exact same suppliers and the exact same companies costing maybe like five times more in america than they do in a place like canada.
Additionally, obama care doesn't do anything to overhaul the fact that a large portion of our healthcare expenses in america is completely wasted on administrative expenses.
Because obama care only adds to the complexity of an overburdened healthcare system.
It only makes the healthcare system more complicated which amplifies facts that like, if you work in a physician's office, now you need to hire people who are professionals in the healthcare system who can fill administrative roles, who can do billing functions and things like this.
You need to waste all this money on advertising if your an insurance company, and things like that.
All of these kinds of things are just wasted expenses.
All of that money is money that we could be using to further subsidize people's actual well being and livelihoods in their health, which we're simply not doing under the status quo.
But finally it doesn't fix obama care doesn't make a major problem, which is the fact that ever increasing high co pays and high deductibles make it so that people are still going to be dis-incentivized from actually seeking out preventive care.
People are still going to wait until the worst possible manifestation of their disease or ailment strikes before they try to get any help.
I think that's a pretty messed up reality and it's one that we need to get rid of and it's one that's going to require us to cancel the affordable care act and ultimately get to a better place.
So for those reasons we should cancel it.