We should increase international volunteering because it's pretty good for the people you're volunteering for in both the short run and the long term in both satisfying short term needs and creating long term economic opportunities.
So let's start by talking about why international volunteering is good in the short term.
And I think it's good in the short term because obviously in a lot of the places that people internationally volunteer in they tend to be developing countries where the standard of living and quality of life is a lot worse off and there is a lack of access to a lot of things.
These things can include a lack of access to like housing a lack of access to like like utilities or power a lack of roads or things like that.
But it can also be a lack of access to things like english teachers which are necessary oftentimes for business transactions or things like that.
And the important thing to note is that a lot of these things can be expensive services where it's very difficult to satisfy them.
So this is also compounded by the fact that people don't often have before hand sources of revenue or income to afford them after decades or possibly centuries of colonization imperialism wars and things like that that have made life difficult in a lot of places.
So when you have volunteering it satisfies a lot of basic needs.
So it could be things like building wells for fresh water.
It could be basic shelter schools things like that these are incredibly important things that are hard to have otherwise and they're very necessary.
So you're making lives better for a lot of people in the short term.
But I also think in the long term you're not really sacrificing anything either because while there is a common argument that sometimes volunteering international volunteering can place out local businesses from providing these services I think that's very unlikely.
And the big reason for that is because people can't really afford the services oftentimes like you're not really pricing out people who are local people who are building houses if you don't have like the ability to afford building of that house in the first place and the government isn't able to provide support for that in the first place.
So the only other alternates would likely be maybe trying to like rely on like cheaper outsourced labor cheaper outsourced goods and materials which don't really have much benefit anyway.
But what I do you think shouldn't be overlooked is the long term economic prospects that are associated with volunteering and having a more stable life.
Because after you have more access to clean water more access to housing and education and things like that you're going to probably have a higher standard of living.
You're going to be better able to invest in your future if you need to better able to plan your life out raise a family and things like that and more economic planning can take place which is the foundation of creating a stable economy.
So all of those things will ultimately be a quite good for actually helping economic growth and things like that.
And that is why increasing international volunteering is quite good.