We should not abolish the american jobs act because it's pretty important and it's something that we should keep for a couple of reasons.
So first, we should keep the american jobs act because it supported some good projects.
It secured a lot of funding for things like infrastructure projects which I think are pretty important.
They're pretty important for a couple of reasons.
First, because infrastructure projects are generally good for the economy.
They create jobs.
They create long term economic growth by fostering efficiency, ease of travel and transportation between markets.
So all of those things are good but it's also good because it's nice from a quality of life standpoint.
Like america has pretty trash infrastructure and that like annoys or aggravates most people.
People don't like that we don't have high speed trains going anywhere.
People don't like that our subway systems are very outdated and decrepit.
People don't like that our bridges are in critical condition.
People don't like that roads are constantly pothole-ridden.
So you know, infrastructure projects and spending are pretty good things, widely popular.
No reason why we should just cut it now but the next thing that the american jobs act did that was very good is it established additional funding for a lot of additional public sector workers.
So people like public school teachers got funding from it, firefighters got funding from it, like plenty a important public service workers got their like entities got funding under this and that's important because oftentimes these people don't get paid enough as is or if they do you get paid like a decent amount of money , their agree economic insecurity.
There is a fear that their jobs may go away at the at any kind of recession or on a political whim and that's not fair to these people and that's certainly not going to encourage people to do these jobs which are important jobs.
So you want to make sure that you protect funding for them as well.
So the final thing that I want to talk about is the comparative about even if there was some kind of hypothetical money problem to which it was just not possible for us to keep spending this money on helping the economy and people's lives, I think that there's things that are it's much better that we cut funding for other things than these things.
First, you can well there's like several there's actually three options.
First, you can just take out loans, you can deficit spend, there's no real reason why you can't do those kinds of things.
A lot of people a lot of governments deficit spend.
It's not really that big of a deal.
Secondarily, you can raise taxes on the rich.
I don't really see any reason why that's a bit of a problem.
Politically people might not politically rich people and politicians won't like it but I think it's a pretty solid idea.
You can also cut money from prisons.
You can cut money from police forces.
You can cut money from the military.
There's trillions of dollars that you can cut from there and those look like pretty good places.
I'd much rather have working roads.
I'd much rather have well funded public schools than like widespread prisons or having like a billion of like a billion of this new and up-to-date missile that kill more people.
Those are priorities that I'm perfectly fine defending.
So for all those reasons, don't abolish the american jobs act.