We should limit executive compensation because it's a moral imperative and it would be economically beneficial as well, and it's ultimately not that big of a burden on these people.
So let's start by talking about what this would actually look like.
There's a variety of ways in which we think it would be reasonable and feasible to limit executive compensation.
Whether it's by making it so that executives by law can only make a certain percentage more money than the lowest paid employee, so maybe like a couple hundred times more money, so maybe a CEO can only make at most a couple hundred times more than a janitor.
Or you could have a one hundred percent tax on revenues after a certain point, so maybe after like a couple of million dollars there is a one hundred percent tax, or something like that.
So now what would this be helpful in solving on a moral level?
I think that wealth inequality and income inequality is an incredibly harmful thing that has a horrible slew of consequences for society.
First and foremost this has a direct economic consequence on other people.
Because money in a society is more or less zero sum.
Obviously wealth can grow for a nation over time for a broad base, but by and large especially when it comes to executive compensation, you're talking about a a set pool of money.
And when more people at the very top or an elite or CEO's are getting more of that pie of money, that means that everybody else is getting a decreasing share that money.
So you're directly seeing a whole lot of other people have less money.
And that obviously has a slew of economic consequences.
Whether the economic consequences are that consumption isn't going to be as fueled because less people have money to spend, it could mean that people are going to be held back in life because they don't have savings, so maybe if there's an emergency they're going to be in big trouble, they're not going to be as willing to invest in long term expenditures like houses or cars or their education, because they're not going to be able to like they're not going to think that they have a firm enough financial footing to do those kinds of things.
And even moreover, rich people tend to just replace things that they have with more luxurious versions of the same thing, which don't really fuel a lot of economic production.
So like it's better if someone buys a car, that didn't have a car before, in terms of job creation and and product like creation, rather than just someone replacing their camry with a ferrari.
You're not really getting as much of a good there.
But beyond that I also think that this creates a feedback loop.
Because rich people have a tendency to get richer with the money that they have.
Because rich people can use that money, especially CEO's, they can give that money to hedge funds or like investment banks or mutual funds or all kinds of other entities to our invest their money in.
And with that they ultimately just end up making more money and that means that a lot of problems ultimately end up being cyclical and become more extreme over time.
And finally and beyond finally you also see political problems, especially in places like america where political speech is something that like political influence is something that is purchasable, you can buy and sell politicians basically, the more money you have the more political power you have.
Which makes it even more likely that you're going to be able to make more money and that your political preferences are going to get out sized in force.
So finally let's look at this on the comparative of what we're actually doing to people cost wise.
Because I feel like when you're already making millions and millions of dollars just losing a couple more millions of dollars isn't really all that big of a burden and it can help people a whole lot more.
So for all those reasons, we should limit executive compensation.