We should fight global warming, because global warming is bad, very very bad, and many many people are going to die, if we don't do something about it.
Very bad.
So, let's talk about why.
First and foremost, cities are going to flood.
When science has like it's like essentially just a scientific fact that, if the world keeps getting warmer, concentrated glaciers, polar ice caps, all these things are going to melt.
When it melts, it goes into the ocean, and when it goes into the ocean, sea levels rise.
Now this is a problem, because if sea levels go up by say five feet or ten feet, the billions of people, that live along coasts, are going to be under water, and that's a problem, because people are not fish and they cannot breathe underwater, they cannot live underwater.
So, this means that either you're going to have to spend whole like massive amounts of money on creating levees around essentially like the entire world, around like global coastlines, you're also going to have to spend a lot of money on maintaining those kind of things, and the like.
I think that's probably just gonna be prohibitively expensive for most people around the world, except for maybe the richest cities.
The other possibility is that everyone's going to have to move, which is also kind of a waste, because you built the entire cities there, but it's also very difficult to move, it's costly to move, it's expensive to move, there's transition cost, so all that's bad as well.
But the additional thing is that, a lot of these problems are going to happen not not just like over time gradually, but they're going to happen suddenly.
So you're not going to be able to transition as well.
So, for example, maybe the sea levels are already going up a little bit more, and that means when a hurricane rolls around, a storm surge is going to be a whole lot worse, and you're more likely going to have mass flooding or things like that, or a levee crack, suddenly you're going to have like a bowl essentially fill up with water, which is awful, things like that.
This is also bad for global food supplies, most food can grow at the temperature that it's grown out for the entirety of human existence and natural existence, and if something gets five degrees warmer, or even two degrees warmer, food can't grow, and that's bad, because it's going to lead to mass starvation.
But similarly, to the last point, you're also going to see more volatility in global weather patterns, more natural disasters as a result of climate change, more unusual cold spells, more unusual hot spells, and things like that, and more extreme, so these are also just going to mess up crop production.
They're going to mess up the ability to actually feed people.
So, unless we plan on growing all of the global food supply inside greenhouses, which I don't think is in any way feasible, we should probably come with a solution to that, and fight global warming.
This is also going to be incredibly bad from just like a general health perspective, because even if like none of that is true, even if like none of those like massive existential consequences are true, as far as like that's concerned, they're still obvious consequences, like when you're releasing more CO two into the atmosphere, you are making it so that there is more air pollution, and that could create problems for like a lung health, and other kinds of health problems, which aren't good, and other kinds of things.
But I also think that, as far as moral responsibility is concerned, that we have responsibilities for these things, because maybe you could have like a moral discussion: okay, we know factually global warming is going to exist, but there's a problem with that, we'd have to spend a whole lot of money to fight global warming, we'd have to drastically change our lives in order to fight global warming.
So, first and foremost, it's worth incurring these harms, because these harms are the risks are existential in nature, and spending money, or living a harder life, or a more less like wasteful life, are things that are more important.
Second, a lot of things are easy fixes: recycle more, have smarter regulations in place, are all things that don't necessarily require all that much of a transition, but third, it's incredibly irresponsible to young people, it's incredibly irresponsible to the people who have to live with the actual consequences of global warming, not like your racist sixty year old grandpa.
So, for all those reasons, we should fight global warming.