We should make high school mandatory because the skills that you learn in high school and especially in the last couple of years of high school are incredibly critical skills for your future life.
So I think that there is like two main ways you can break this down.
Because the status quo is obviously you're required to go to high school up until a certain point, I believe like your junior or your senior year you can drop out.
So the real comparative is like going to high school for like two years or like three years versus completing high school.
So there's a couple of obvious distinctions here that are really important: the first one is that if you're going to high school for the full amount of time you're getting your degree.
And when you get the degree, that comes with a lot of benefits that are really important to you and important to society.
When you get your high school diploma, as opposed to just simply going to high school in taking the classes, the diploma has value because it signals to prospective employers and people that you've like reached a certain educational level, and not just that you possess like a like assortment of skills in various fields or anything, but like that you have an overall educational capability which can be important to a lot of employers.
But beyond that kind of like softer requirement, a lot of employers just straight up require that you have a high school diploma.
So if you don't have a high school diploma you're already going to be by and large unemployable, and that's incredibly important to the government.
Because if you're unemployable you may end up being reliant on things like medicaid or food stamps or unemployment benefits, a lot of government services.
So the government has like pay a lot may might have to pay money if you're not able to find a job.
So given that there certainly a a direct public interest in that in that sense to try to make sure that people are more employable and people are going to be more heavily employed.
But moreover, a lot of employers, even if you're like in some kind of vocational field, still require you to get a high school diploma because it seen as some kind of educational attainment.
The next thing that I think makes it important to have a high school diploma is less so like the to have mandatory high school, is less the diploma itself, more the skills that you learn.
In the last two years of high school you're often learning incredibly important skills that can be useful for your life.
Oftentimes it's your first exposure to say economics classes.
You learn about things like economics, you may learn because throughout your entire educational career you've been building up a lot of skills.
Maybe you can also take more advanced science classes or more advanced history classes, more specialized classes.
So those final two years of high school can additionally afford you a lot of opportunities to take more specialized classes and that could be useful no matter what career going into.
Because high schools still generally have a good assortment of classes.
So you're going to be able to like learn more skills.
That means that you're going to probably be like a better informed and a better educated citizen, which can have its own benefits for like your individual life and the like society as a whole as well.
But it also means that your like employment prospects are going to be better, your better able to like live independently, there's a whole lot of really good skills that are associated with a high school diploma.
With graduating high school.
The final thing that I want to talk about is that it has in a lot of ways limited cost.
The main argument that would be against like mandatory high school diploma is: " oh well then you can't live work a job. "
Or something like that.
Well first, a lot of people do work jobs while they're in high school.
But secondarily your options are gonna be so limited anyway without a high school diploma that it makes more sense to have for the rest of your life those higher earnings that come with graduating from high school.
So for all those reasons we should have mandatory high school.