We should adopt teacher tenure reform because the current setup of teacher tenure ultimately leads to worst teachers being able to keep their jobs.
It makes it so that it's harder to get newer teachers into the workforce and also I don't really think that teachers actually deserve tenure anyway.
They deserve higher pay in places like america sure, but tenure itself is not something that I think that they deserve.
So let's start by talking about why I think that tenure is bad and that it keeps worse it it essentially insures job security for worst teachers.
So being a teacher is I think something that is obviously incredibly important that your training the future youth of society, so you want to make sure you're getting the most qualified people possible doing that job.
Therefore, I think that the biggest criteria of evaluation is the efficacy of doing your job and that's interesting because once a teacher gets tenure it becomes that simply doing your job not that effectively or maybe even only being like slightly below average at your job but otherwise you want to replace that person.
These people these teachers are possibly not going to be very good at their job and I think that's very important because this means that you can't really replace these teachers because tenure creates a lot of legal blocks to doing that and it also makes it so that teachers unions are going to use the large degree of power that they often have to prevent these teachers from getting fired.
This means that oftentimes teachers who have just been around for a long time teaching are able to keep their jobs unless they usually commit acts of like severe misconduct.
I think that's a problem because like while obviously teachers who do commit misconduct should get fired, that's not the only criteria that makes for a bad teacher.
If somebody is ineffective at leading classroom conversation, if they can't inspire their students to do their classwork, if they aren't able to get the most out of their students, those are important qualities in a teacher too and those are qualities that teachers should be checked upon pretty consistently and I think that tenure makes it a lot harder to do that.
But besides that I also think that it makes it harder to get newer teachers into the workforce and that's very important because when you insure that these older teachers, even if they're not very good at their jobs, are going to be doing their job regardless, the flip side of that is that better teachers and newer teachers aren't able to get these jobs and the reason they can't get those jobs is because they're they're the teachers with tenure are locked into those positions.
So that means that the people who are suffering the most are our children.
The people who are supposed to be getting a good education are going to be getting the short end of the stick on that one.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is about whether teachers even deserve tenure in the first place because the idea about like the need for teacher tenure reform I think we should attack the assumption that this is something that teachers are entitled to it in the first place because in tenure is very much limited to academia.
It's not really something that you see in most professions and even in like academia it's generally limited to like university faculty or at least it should be and I think that's important because if you're teaching at a public school or things like that like you're not it's not the same as being on a faculty of a university or things like that where obviously the expectations are a lot higher, where the needs to like of tenure could be very different but when you're an individual professor, when you're just an individual school teacher I don't really know why you would need like this special kind of job security that prevents you from being fired if you don't do if you do a below average job which is something that very very few occupations in all of american society and probably most societies would experience.
So for all those reasons, we should adopt teacher tenure reform.