We should subsidize humanitarian aid because humanitarian aid leads to a lot of direct benefits for humanity.
It's something that makes sense on a practical level and it's something that I think that we have a moral obligation to fulfill as well.
But to start by talking about like what all these goods are, let's just begin by talking about why subsidies will likely be a pretty beneficial way to increase humanitarian aid, make sure more of it is happening.
And I think that one of the most obvious direct ways in which you can like achieve these benefits is like you talk a lot about like issues in a world in which humanitarian aid is meant to address.
Things like victims of war, refugees, famine, poverty, diseases, fighting diseases, all kinds of things in which like combating natural disasters, all kinds of things in which humanitarian aid can be important in addressing.
And one of the biggest things that's happening in these kinds of situations where aid is necessary is there is a lack of money and there's a lack of resources and money that could be used to buy these resources.
So you could have a lack of things like clean water a lack of ways to fight like outbreaks of diseases like malaria, a lack of food, clean food and clean water, all kinds of problems that exist.
Money can address most of these things.
The more money that you have you can build drinking wells, you can do research on new ways to fight diseases, or come up with like or produce vaccines and things like that.
So all of this aid and the money that you used to subsidize aid can have incredibly direct impact because you're simply just getting more of this product and solving a lot of these problems.
I also think that you wouldn't necessarily even need such like mind boggling large sums of money to solve a lot of these problems with humanitarian aid.
When you look at like the like trillions of dollars of corporate tax cuts that like we just had and the GOP tax cut bill, when you look at other kinds of ways in which like only like a few families in a country like america have more money than like half of the world's population, you look at how much wealth inequality there is and I don't actually think that it's not difficult to conceptualize a world in which more of this money is simply going toward people who are in need in a more just society.
Because like the idea of like: " oh well how are you going to pay for that?
You can't pay for that. "
Is one that's predicated on maybe like the current order existing but if you simply like do more to actually have wealth more equalized in our society you probably could pay for a lot of these things quite easily.
Because it's less a matter of the money not existing and it's more a matter of what are actually our priorities.
Do we care more about a rich person having their tenth private jet and their hundredth property or do we care about people actually being able to have to live off of or so their children don't die at a young age?
And I think that this problem of morality is definitely something that we we have to focus on.
And subsidies can be like a really good way to combat a lot of these problems in that way.
And I definitely think that there's a moral obligation to do that too.
Because when you're talking about giving like a subsidy to something you're talking about like generally a more capable actor, so like a rich government or rich individuals who are giving their money to like a government via taxation or something like that, you're basically talking about like money being taken away from people who already have a ton of it and giving it to people who are more in need, people who are actually suffering.
So I think that there's like a clear moral hierarchy there in which you're just simply doing more good in the world that way.
So for all of those reasons we should subsidize humanitarian aid.