We should adopt socialism because socialism is fantastic on a moral level and on an economic level.
So let's start by talking about what socialism in most forms actually looks like.
And by and large it's classified as extensive public support networks, and making sure that basic goods and services are available to everyone in a really equitable fashion.
So this looks like things like social security, like intensive pension plans, strong labor unions so they can advocate for workers rights, universal healthcare, maybe even universal basic income.
These kinds of policies that would fall under the umbrella of socialism basically.
So why are these things good?
So first and foremost most of these things are just things that people should have a right to you and are necessary to people's lives.
When you're talking about something like healthcare, you look at places like america, which are one of the only developed countries in the world that doesn't guarantee access to healthcare or have some kind of public option.
You look at things like the ability of people to stay alive, the ability of people to literally be healthy and be happy is something that comes with an exorbitant price tag.
And even if it's not from like a market perspective, something that's like efficient, obviously this is something that's so important to the like basic human happiness that it's something that you want to try to guarantee access for.
You know, we guarantee a lot of rights in a lot of parts in places like america.
You have a right to freedom of speech, you have the right to vote, you have a lot of rights.
Right to religion.
But rights to things like healthcare, rights to financial security, these kinds of things are far more important in a lot of ways.
You could live without a right to religion.
You could live with that.
But you can't live if you're dying because you don't have the ability to stay healthy, because you can't afford medicine.
You're not going to be able to meaningfully access your right to freedom of speech if you're like constantly working and you don't have the ability to actually speak out politically, because there's a fear of political consequences of speaking out.
You're not going to be able to take advantage of a whole lot of like basic level things of happiness in life.
And there is a whole lot more to life than simply just like living for your job, living for work and things like that.
And I think that socialism makes it possible so that people can actually be comfortable in the lives of their living because they don't have to worry about putting food on the table and starving or having their kids being starving.
They don't have to worry about being homeless, you don't have to worry about these kinds of things because the state provides it for them.
And beyond that, sure, there might be some levels of inequality.
There might be some people who have more luxuries than other people, but in terms of the ability to actually survive on a day to day basis, that's something that I think that everyone just morally has an equal claim to.
So socialism should be adopted for for those reasons.
But beyond that it's good for the economy too.
When people are when people have more money they can fuel consumption.
Rich people by and large just kind of like park their money in bank accounts or in investments or upgrade things and aren't upgrade goods, so like instead of a toyota you got like a maserati or something.
So you're not really creating new consumption and it's more of transferable consumption or no consumption at all.
And that's good because economies are primarily driven by the consumption of goods and services.
So we get more of that through socialism and more purchasing power.
But also there's just gonna be more research development and innovation and more creativity.
Because you're going to have more people in the work in qualified workers, you're going to have more educated workers, and more people that are able to participate in the economy.
In the same way in which like there is a huge economic gains when women were able to participate in the workforce, right now a lot of poor people are locked into certain kinds of jobs because they can't get access to certain kinds of training and education to get out of it.
And that gets solved with socialism.
So for all those reasons, adopt socialism.