Big governments should not be abandoned in fact big governments are quite good.
First because big governments are more efficient and effective at enacting policies.
And second big governments are actually more democratic than small governments often are.
So let's start by talking about why bigger governments can more efficiently and effectively solve problems.
The first one is that oftentimes problems should be enacted uniformly in order for them to be properly enacted.
So when you're talking about things for example like discrimination these are problems that can't be tolerated no matter where they're acting and you can't just operate under under the auspices of like individual choice or the like to do things like just by discriminations.
So you need to have national and big government laws to operate these things.
But besides issues of discrimination and rights where you need to make sure that you have uniform big policies in place it's also important for things like taxes because keep in mind that let's say you're a business in new york and despite you doing a lot of operations in new york you can maybe set up an official corporate headquarters in a place like delaware or whatever where they have different tax systems and different tax structures in place which can be used as a way to avoid taxes or maybe even set up an offshore account and the like and big governments are going to have a lot more resources in order to actually crackdown on these kinds of things in theory at least you do have this even if they don't always do that so you're better able to avoid loopholes and better able to enforce laws and make sure that you're enforcing them fairly and uniformly.
But additionally when you're enacting big programs like social safety programs for things like healthcare programs or social security they're a lot better the more people you have it for a few reasons.
First and foremost there is the economies of scale in that when you're doing it is a bigger group you have more negotiating power so if you're doing something like negotiating drug prices or negotiating wages and salaries if you're like a bigger group you have more negotiating power that's why it's better to have like that's the same reason why people like to unionize because it gives you more bargaining power.
So if you have a bigger government it has more bargaining power to argue on behalf of the people with like a corporation for example.
But you can also spread risk more effectively which is really important because like the main idea on an insurance scheme is that you have as many people as possible buy into it so you can spread risk across a bigger pool of people which makes it a feasible strategy.
And if you have a bigger government you have a bigger tent of people so you can spread risk better which is better.
But additionally bigger governments are also more democratic and I think that the big reason why they're more democratic is because people can't really be bothered focusing on all different levels of government.
It's very difficult to focus on local elections state elections and federal elections because it's just a lot to take in and people are busy, people are working, people have things to do in their lives.
The people tend to naturally gravitate towards national policies.
People tend to be most informed about what national policies are as opposed to more local policies.
They tend to have more of a focus on that and this is reflected in media coverage in the like as well.
And further the people who are going to be most advantaged by this comparative apathy are going to be special interests and lobbyists and the like which is why it's a whole lot easier for corruption to take place on the local level lobbyists who affect on the local level and things like that because there is a lot less checks against that.
Because the biggest check against misconduct is citizen awareness and shining a light on these kinds of things and that's a whole lot more likely to happen on the national government level.
So ultimately you actually get a more democratic and accountable government if it's bigger.
So for all those reasons big government should not be abandoned