We absolutely should not prohibit unisex bathrooms because unisex bathrooms are incredibly important for trans people, incredibly important for disabled people, young people, elderly people.
All kinds of people are incredibly reliant on unisex bathrooms and that's reason enough that you should consider requiring them but that certainly doesn't mean that if people want to have them more, if they already exist, that you need to do something so extreme that you would just ban them altogether and not allow people to have them if they want.
So let's talk about let's start by talking about why unisex bathrooms are incredibly important for trans people because a whole lot of the public debates about bathroom bills and things like that have been focusing on their impact on transgender people.
To illustrate how important and basic this is to trans people, if you are a man listening to this or if you're a woman listening to this, I want you to imagine going into the bathroom and essentially taking a dump in someone of the opposite gender's bathroom, or just using the opposite gender's bathroom.
It's something that is intuitively going to make you uncomfortable, I know that I certainly wouldn't be comfortable just walking into a woman's bathroom in using it because it's very much seen as something that's like socially like taboo and like uncomfortable for you.
So now I want you to imagine that you're a trans person and you're essentially being forced to go into the into a bathroom that doesn't align with your gender.
That kind of basic intuitive discomfort that you feel because you don't feel like you belong in the place where you're performing like a very basic human action the basic feeling of not belonging where you're going to the bathroom is really uncomfortable and it's something that trans people experience on a regular daily basis when they go to bath when they're forced into bathrooms that don't align with their genders.
Now that alone is a really big problem because when we show that we don't care about the feelings or comfort of trans people, we're essentially trying to silence their needs, we're trying to show that they're value doesn't really like they don't really have any social value to the point where we would consider making policies that like make them feel more welcome and included in society and that's really bad because it's sending a horrible message to people that they don't trans people that they aren't unwelcome in our society and it additionally sends a message that trans people are vulnerable to being attacked, that trans people's includement in society doesn't matter and these are the kinds of things that make it more likely that trans people are going to be victims of violence, that trans people are going to be more likely to be excluded from jobs or other kinds of benefits on the basis of their gender.
I feel like all of these things become more likely in a society where we do not value trans people and not valuing them in such a basic way like their ability to feel comfortable when they go to the bathroom.
It's a very clear indication that as a society that we just don't attribute worth to these people which is horrible.
But the next thing is that like even if none of that matters, I don't know why you would prohibit unisex bathrooms given how important they are to so many people.
Like most people have moms, most people have like elderly grandparents and most people know people who are disabled and all of these people rely on unisex bathroom bathrooms too whether it's because like you're like a mother with a child and you need to go into your bathroom with like a baby boy or you're like a really old person and your caretakers of the different gender but you help going to the bathroom.
These are all basic circumstances where you need to go into that bathroom and this is a big problem because it puts you in a position of like either the caretaker has to be uncomfortable going into a bathroom of a different gender or somebody who's just like disabled or old has to bear the discomfort and humiliation of having to like go to the in addition to like not being able to go to the bathroom on their own they also have to go into the like bathroom of the opposite gender which a lot of people just aren't comfortable doing.
So I think that that's obviously a really big part of why we should not prohibit unisex bathrooms as well.
So for all those reasons, very proud to stand on the opposition.