We should have less drug testing because drug testing is in most circumstances absolutely ridiculous.
Obviously you can support it in limited circumstances so maybe if somebody is suspected of driving under the influence of drugs or maybe if their their specific job would necessitate it so maybe if you're going to work with kids and there's a like there's a suspicion that you're coming to work intoxicated.
Specific circumstances where maybe it's justified but by and large it's certainly not justified for several reasons.
So first and foremost and most notably some drugs are legal and you should be allowed to take those drugs.
If you live in a state where marijuana is legal there's no reason why you shouldn't be able to do that.
Similarly, a lot of drugs ought be illegal because it's something that isn't really all that big of a deal.
At the end of the day, most drug use is only going to be affecting you as an individual person.
It's not really going to affect anyone else in society and it's something that you should have control over because it's something that you're doing to your brain, it's something that you're doing to your body.
So it's really not that big of a deal in a lot of ways and moreover this is something that you're doing in your free time.
So beyond that says you're doing it yourself, you're doing it to yourself usually on your own time so if you like smoke weed after when you get home from work or do cocaine or whatever you do that's it's your life.
You should be allowed to live your life the way that you want especially if you're only hurting yourself and it's it's your it's your time.
Additionally, this is also increasing drug testing is counterproductive.
So presumably the reason why you increase drug testing is because you want less people to do drugs.
You maybe you want to put more people in jail for doing drugs or something like.
The problem is is that increasing drug testing will likely only increase the prevalence of drug drug use and destructive drug use.
Why?
Because the way in which people can use drugs in a more like controlled and healthy matter so like a way in which like you're less likely to get addicted to drugs like cocaine or heroin or things like that, is by making it so that people don't have like really shitty life circumstances where they look to drugs as a way to essentially escape from shitty life circumstances.
So when you make it harder for people who use drugs to get jobs to seek help at an addiction site because they're worried about getting arrested, all of these kinds of things when you make it harder for people who do drugs to even exist in society, to be present in society, you make it more likely that they're going to use drugs in a really destructive and harmful way because they feel isolated, they feel socially excluded, and these are all ways in which people are much more likely to really abuse drugs as a way to essentially escape, to give them like a temporary pleasure to cope with underlying deeper issues or traumas that may exist and things like that.
So for all of those reasons, we should definitely not increase drug testing.