Abstinence only sex education should be mandatory, because it's the only way to ensure safety from STD's, safety from pregnancy, and safety from the wrath of god.
So, for all of those reasons, it's important to make sure that abstinence only sex education is mandatory.
So, let's start by talking about safety concerns.
The only way to be a hundred percent effective against STD's and pregnancy, is to make sure that you abstain from sex.
And, I think that there's a lot of problems with the current society that we live in, and that even if people are as educated as possible on safe ways to have sex, you're not really able to get access to contraceptives, for the most part, until you're like until you're of a certain age, you're not able to get access to certain kind of health treatments until you're of a certain age, you may not you may be dependent on a parent with different opinions of you, there's all kinds of reasons and complications for, even if you are educated about like sex and things like that, you still not you like may not even be able to have access to a lot of things.
So, abstinence is the safest way to engage in these kinds of things.
And like, honestly at the end of the day, like if you want to, like, like have fun with like your significant other, you can like do stuff other than sex, like there's not as much of a risk of spreading STD's with like oral sex, or things like that, obviously you can't get pregnant from like things like that, there's other things that you can do with a partner, obviously people are still going to date and have partners before marriage and things like that.
So, that's not really the issue, the issue is about what do we want the prevalent social norm, as far as to be, and I think that's like not, and at least not like that unreasonable, that people shouldn't be having sex all that early on, in that especially in earlier like especially in elementary school, and middle school, and stuff like maybe you should be teaching abstinence only, as far as your primary form of sex education.
But, there's also the religious element to content with, and obviously god wants all of us to not have sex until marriage, and if we violate this, then we risk the possibility of wrath, or condemnation, or damnation, and that's going to lead to a lot of third party harms, like a lot of people are going to get messed up by that, and that means that the state has an obligation to ultimately enforce these kinds of things, in order to like make sure that these kinds of things aren't going to be a problem.
But, also to make sure that people's religious preferences are getting enacted I guess, because it makes sure that they're able to, like, achieve their subjective conception of the way in which life should be lived, and that they're able to live their lives in a way, in which they want to be lived in a moral way.
So, for all those reasons, abstinence only sex education should be absolutely mandatory.