We should not prohibit slump tourism, because it is both good for local economies and national economies, and also because it helps increase awareness and break down stereotypes, that people often have about disadvantaged groups and disadvantaged countries.
So, let's start by talking about how slum tourism can be helpful for the economy.
Obviously tourism is often good for the economy, because you have people who are spending money on everything from food to housing, to transportation, to souvenirs of all kinds.
So, all of that is important for a couple of reasons, first and foremost, because a lot of this comes in the form of, essentially, direct financial activities for a lot of disadvantaged people.
So, it creates industries around it creates industries around the lifestyle, it creates industries around the city, or the environment, or whatever it may happen to be, and that's important, because it gives people economic opportunities that they may not have had before.
But additionally, it also is important as far as government budgeting is concerned, and government financing, because tourism can also be lucrative for governments, in that you can put taxes on like hotels or things like that, like a hotel tax, or tax certain kinds of like recreational activities, that may be tourists are more likely to engage in, and those can also be very valuable and lucrative sources of fundraising for governments, and that's very important, because oftentimes, slums are in countries, that don't have a whole lot of resources to do something about those slums.
These countries oftentimes lack social safety nets, and other kinds of things.
And that's very important, because when you increase the opportunities for government funding, you make it more likely that they have the actual means to combat the problems that led to the slums in the first place.
But the next thing that I want to talk about, is about awareness, and about how this helps increase awareness.
And it does so in a couple ways, first and foremost, it gives people a more holistic understanding of the actual people in question, and I think that the reason for this is because while, obviously, when you travel to a country you're not going to be able to fully take everything in, you're at least going to likely leave with more of an understanding, especially in slum tourism, when the explicit purpose is to go in and help people, to go in and actually see what the lifestyle is like.
I think you'll actually get much more of an understanding of the nuance of of the slum, and that's very important.
You're more likely to understand the diversity of them, you're more likely to understand the problem that they have, and why there is a lack of economic opportunities in the first place.
You're more likely to understand that the root of these problems aren't simply things, like maybe a lack of effort, or an inherent worseness, or anything like that, but maybe just a lack of opportunities, government corruption, it could be anything, and you're more likely to be more informed and understanding, once you actually travel to a place.
And that's incredibly important, because information, I think, is good within its own right, because it helps ensure that future policy makers can be like it helps ensure that like policies are more informed, it helps ensure that there might be more of a political will for certain decisions, all of those can be very important things, and that's why increasing awareness can also be important.
So for those reasons, we should not prohibit