Carbon tax is incredibly good.
It's an effective way to raise revenue, fight global warming, and ultimately extract money from people who are morally responsible for a lot of the harms in the first place.
So why is a carbon tax necessary at a most basic level?
Because climate change is a huge problem.
Climate change is going to cause massive economic harms and massive human harms whether it's widespread flooding from natural disasters or rising sea levels, whether it's crop failures from widely varying temperatures and an inability of most crops to adjust, whether it's things like air quality in san francisco being so bad because of wildfires happening in the area unlike air being stuck and like it's not just san francisco but all throughout the pacific northwest, or things like that.
There's a whole slew of problems that come as a result of climate change and all of these problems result in human and economic harms.
So that's important because what you need to do then is try to raise money to combat all of these multi billion dollar probably multi trillion dollar harms because when you need to build a seawall around the entire city of miami, or you need to rebuild an entire city because it's now like practically under water, all of these things come with like huge huge damages and that's something that we can raise more revenue from with a carbon tax.
So at the most basic level you're obviously going to now have more money to combat the impacts of climate change if you have a carbon tax in place.
But it's also good because carbon tax is going to disincentivize behavior that leads to a lot of these problems in the first place.
Corporations are pretty greedy.
Corporations don't want to spend money for no reason so they're probably going to be more willing to invest a bit of money in transitioning towards green technology and therefore avoiding having to pay taxes that are going to progressively go up and up as the pool of as like carbon taxes tend to likely get more and more expensive over time.
So all that's going to be good but the next thing that I want to talk about is this is entirely good to do because the corporations that release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere are are entirely to blame for not entirely but mostly the blame for global warming anyway and therefore should receive a lot of the blame.
For anyone who read who has read things like the LA times investigative journal reports into exxon mobil and their practices regarding climate change you get a pretty like dismal idea of the fact that a lot of corporations did incredibly advanced research in climate change, knew that it was happening, and there and even did and even altered their practices.
So in the case of exxon mobil, exxon mobil had extensive research from its own professionals that climate change was happening and it even did things like build its oil rigs higher off the higher off of like sea surfaces and designed them in such ways to deal with things like rising sea levels and different climate change conditions.
And yet on the flip side it would also spend tons of money funnel tons of money into anti climate change political candidates and to climate change denial and things like that as a public stance.
And corporations have been for time and time again trying to get around this.
It's a lot it's the same thing that like big tobacco did basically, where they would for years know that these things are really problematic but see that this is an economic cost for them and that they can keep trying to make a little bit more money off of the off of the current system that is in place, so they try to hide the truth.
And I think that that's something that happened on a pretty like widespread and systematic basis.
All energy because when you're talking about like people who release greenhouse gases and are going to be most affected by this tax, you're talking about oil companies, you're talking about gas companies, you're talking about heavy manufacturers, you're talking about people who polluted groundwater, you're not talking about these like benevolent actors who are just getting fined for no reason, you're talking about people who should be honestly lucky that all they're getting is taxed when this is what's happening here.
But additionally this is honestly a pretty reasonable way to officially allocate things because the more you pollute, the more harm and damage you're causing on a social level, so you should probably be the one that's paying for that.
So for all those reasons we're very proud to propose a carbon tax.