We should end the blockade on the gaza strip because it ultimately doesn't really actually solve all that much and it does more than harm does more harm than any real good for everything from the peace process to international perceptions of israel, and it's also immoral.
So let's start by talking about why it doesn't work.
The biggest reason why it doesn't work is pretty obvious: it's not like there's a shortage of terrorist attacks in israel and this blockade has been happening for almost a decade now.
It's not like hamas isn't firing rockets every day.
It's not like hamas isn't having terrorists going on to buses and bomb people or stab people or do all these kinds of things.
It's not like there's still a very real threat of terrorist attacks that is happening in israel oftentimes.
So it's so it's very clear that if the blockade is working at all for funneling supplies in, clearly it's only doing so much given that illicit black market supplies and bombs and weapons and guns are still finding their way into hamas and other kinds of militant terrorist organizations' hands in in the gaza strip.
So you already probably should end something that isn't working because you're probably as the israeli government spending a whole lot of political capital and money on doing this kind of a blockade, but the picture is even more dire than that.
Because I think that you're because I think that the when you actually look at the way the gaza strip blockade works, it's incredibly restrictive.
And it's very restrictive in the way in which a whole lot of supplies really aren't able to find their way into the gaza strip.
And this is why you oftentimes see things like shortage of like medical supplies or humanitarian supplies and things like that.
And even when these things do ultimately find their way into gaza, the blockade drastically slows the process of getting them in and constricts the supply that's able to get in, and it oftentimes also suplics the countries that are able to get it in.
So let's say like if you're iran you're probably not going to be able to give humanitarian aids to poor people on the ground in gaza even if you'd like to do that.
So it like does things like it artificially restricts the ability of people in gaza, who are a ton of people who are innocent civilians, for actually getting help.
So that creates a really really big problem for numerous reasons: first, it's kind of immoral and it's immoral because it results in people dying.
Most people don't die from israeli drone strikes or israeli like targeted strikes on like where things hamas terrorists are.
Most of the time people are dying because of like starvation, complications from health problems, a lack of access to food, like there's all kinds like those are the primary lack of like basic sanitation things like that, the fact that there's no electricity, the fact that you probably aren't able to work, like like a full time job because of all this instability.
Like these are the real reasons why there's so many problems in the gaza strip.
And those things are much more directly tied to things like a blockade than they are to anything else.
And that creates a spillover problem because the reason why you could have a blockade for ten years and not see any fucking progress is because you're doing the same thing over and over again and you're still going to have people suffering and when people are suffering they're more likely to be violent.
Because when you're unemployed, when you or when you see like when you're not able to like support your family, when you see like your friends around you dying, when you see all of these bad things happening to you, and when on the basic level you're able to like look it israel as this evil other, because they literally put walls around you and restrict your movement, restrict your ability to do anything, no matter who you are, just based on the where you just based on where you're born, this probably pretty understandably creates a lot of negative impressions for people that are living in gaza.
So this is why it's so easy for hamas to use propaganda to keep recruiting more and more terrorists that keep doing terrorist attacks over and over again.
There's never going to be a shortage as long as the conditions on the ground are ripe to have an existence of terrorism in the first place.
But finally, even if none of that matters, this hurt israel's international perceptions which is way more.
It makes it so that boycott divestment sanctions is going to be more powerful because it's going to create more of a like people are going to hate israel more, it's going to create more political problems for israel, it's going to create long term economic problems for israel and it's going to keep being a financial drain for israel as well.
So for all of those reasons, you should probably and the blockade of the gaza strip.