We should increase immigration to the united states for two big reasons: first because it's something that I just think is a basic aspect of empathy and common shared humanity that we should extend to other people, and secondarily, even if you don't actually care about other people and you only care about yourself, immigration is probably still good for you too.
So let's start by talking about why we should as a issue of like humanitarian principles increase immigration to the united states.
It's important to recognize that in a lot of parts of the world people are a whole lot less fortunate than us.
People have to survive off of way less money than the average person in america lives off of, people have to fear persecution based on their identity, their sexuality, their ethnicity or their race, people have to be afraid about like famine and disease and all kinds of things and people have to care and there's a whole lot of issues.
Sometimes these things are out of america's control, other times the united states was a direct force involved in a lot of the crises.
Whether it was part of economic exploitation or imperialism or military campaigns, in a lot of cases the united states was one way or another involved.
But I think that's besides the point.
Because at the end of the day we're talking about people, when they want to immigrate to the united states, we're talking about people who just want a better life.
We're not talking about, for the most part, people who come here because they wanna harm us, we're not talking about people who wanna do bad or take people's jobs or anything like that.
We're talking about people who realize that they aren't simply going to be able to live the lives that they dream of living where they currently are so they want to come to america because they think that they can have better opportunities there and they hope that will give that opportunity to them.
And I think that when you're talking about the richest country in the world, the richest country in the history of the world, I think we can do a bit more to let more people in.
To increase immigration to realize that, you know what?
It's really not the end of the world if we let more people in if we extend a helping hand to people who need it.
And I think that's a really important principle that we should abide by more increasing immigration to the united states.
But the second thing that I want to talk about is matters of economics and self interest.
Because I think that it's really good for the united states as a whole as well if more people are coming in.
So first and foremost you look at a lot of like skilled industries very much rely on international labor forces.
When you look at like academia, when you look at fields in technology, or all kinds of things like that, oftentimes you have people around the world who are highly skilled, who possess specialized skills, who are only going to be able to contribute to like american businesses, to american universities and things like that, and these people wanna come to america because they want to like offer their skills to companies here that are willing to take them, and obviously it's good for those businesses, our economy if we let the skilled people in.
But when you're talking about like unskilled workers as well, I don't really see much of a problem here.
Because as much as like people like to complain and scapegoat immigrants as stealing their jobs, the same people very much appreciate when their basic bills, when their food, when the when the toys that they buy for their kids, they appreciate when these things don't cost an exorbitant amount of money.
They appreciate when these things are affordable.
And that affordability is helped when you have immigrants come in to perform cheaper labor in a lot of contexts.
Honestly, this and a lot of ways can help us prevent outsourcing, keep corporations here, and a lot of these jobs are undesirable to americans anyway.
So for all of those reasons, we should increase immigration to the united states.