We should decrease government regulation because government regulation is bad for business and of course since it's bad for business it's also bad for the people and the economy.
So let's start by talking about why government regulation is bad for business and of course there is a myriad of ways in which government regulation is bad for business.
So the the first of which is that there is direct harms that government regulation has cost the business.
So there is costs in complying with government regulations whether it's hiring people who are constantly abreast of and informed of the myriad of government regulations that you have to be following, whether it's like paying for legal departments in compliance offices, paying for like legal staff in the event that you break a some kind of regulation and you now you need to deal with it.
So there's like all kinds of like direct ways in which government regulations just like spend more businesses money.
But beyond that there's also indirect ways in which government regulations hurt business revenues because they restrict the abilities of like businesses to make money.
So whether it's things like like establishing like like maybe a price parameter, or establishing some kind of like restriction on like what materials you can put in a product, maybe like you can't use these cheaper materials you have to use the more expensive materials or like whatever the regulation is.
They generally like add additional cost of business in like in terms of an opportunity cost by like it takes away the ability to do cheaper alternatives maybe.
It like adds on even more cost to businesses.
So why do we care about making things more expensive for businesses?
Why is it bad that businesses are more expensive?
So there's obviously a lot of reasons.
So like first and foremost, when businesses have to spend more money on like random government regulations that's money that's not being invested in the growth of the business which is obviously not good.
Beyond it not be invested in growth it's also not being invested in possibly employees.
It can't be invested in hiring and more jobs.
It can't be invested in increasing wages and things like that because the more financial stress you put on a and beyond that is also the final thing is that a lot of the prices are likely to get passed on to consumers.
So like consumer products are gonna be more expensive because of government regulation.
So all of that is bad.
When like you make it more expensive for businesses to do business, employees are worse off, employers are worse off, and consumers are worse off.
So all of that's like super super bad.
But beyond that, it's not even necessary to increase government regulation.
We already have enough government regulation as it is.
We certainly don't need more especially because of course the free market is self-regulating and the free market is self-regulating because if like the government regulation let's say like there's some shitty thing or shady thing that a corporation is doing that the government doesn't like, then the people can use the most important power that they have, the power of their wallet, and the power of the market to stop going to that business and that means that like that business will have to stop doing it.
So like an example of this could be like maybe like people don't like high fructose corn syrup or whatever, people just prefer regular sugar.
So like you don't need a government regulation to mandate against high fructose corn syrup instead of sugar.
If people prefer something they can use their like market power to like express that concern with the power of their wallet.
So like in a lot of ways government regulations their just like flat out unnecessary.
Markets are self-regulating and self-correcting.
So for all of those reasons, we should not increase government regulation.