We should adopt the metric system because adopting the metric system would just make a lot of sense.
It's easy thing to do.
It would allow wider applicability of like measuring skills for american citizens and, moreover, it's honestly a pretty easy transition.
So, let's begin by talking about why transitioning to the metric system just makes sense, why it's like a a good thing to do.
And the biggest reason is it's just like the the metric system just makes more sense than the customary system.
The metric system everything is like a multiple of like ten or a hundred , so if you want to convert something from, say, like, millimeters to meters, to kilometers, or similar, from like grams to kilograms, everything is like a multiple of ten or like a multiple of like based on the way that it works.
So, you can just kind of like move add more zeros or move a decimal around and , once you like understand the the basic differences in the system, you can convert between different measurements pretty easily.
And that just means that it's a a more it's an easier system to use.
You can measure things out more quickly and effectively.
The customary system is absolute nonsense.
Every measurement is like completely different.
Like you got like x amount of inches makes a like twelve inches makes a foot, however, who I don't even know how many feet make a yard.
And I don't even know how many yards make a mile or whatever, because it's like probably some nonsense number, like three hundred and twenty four or something like that.
And it's the same for all of these.
Like it's the same for every part of the system, like like why does it like like why does twelve inches make a foot, but sixteen ounces makes a pound?
It doesn't make any sense.
Because people just like it's just like these random numbers that don't really have any kind of like actual meaning.
It's designed just to be unnecessarily complicated.
So whenever people need to do conversions or transfer between units or anything like that, it's probably pretty difficult to do it in your head.
You probably need to like waste time using your phone, looking it up, doing all these other kinds of things, because you can't really do it all that effectively.
And you're like more likely going to make mistakes.
You're going to be less efficient and effective.
So those are all reasons why just the metric system is a superior system.
The next point that I want to make, though, is that it just has wider usage.
If you like you can travel anywhere in the world and they're going to use the metric system, not the stupid customary system, so that's useful.
If you're going to like do any kind of international study, like study abroad or research abroad or something like that, they're also going to use the customary system the, sorry, the metric system.
So, it's really like a is a it's a useful skill to have if you plan on traveling anywhere, being more of a global citizen.
But the final argument that I want to make is that the transition would honestly be really easy.
Like, sure, there's probably like some like eighty year olds who aren't really going to be learning anything new anytime soon, because they're old, but if you start now, if you start teaching people the metric system in schools, people'll probably pick up on it pretty quickly.
It's a lot easier than the customary system which we already learned in school.
So I think that like kids would pretty easily be able to learn it in schools.
Most people would probably start doing it, especially if they had to like read signs and read measurements and things like that in the other way.
Since it's not so hard to learn, I think you probably get a lot of compliance with this.
So for all those reasons, we should adopt the metric system.