We should abolish bitcoin because bitcoins are inherently linked to criminal activity and they always will be and there's really nothing you can do about that and bitcoins are honestly pretty unnecessary.
They're just kind of used by people who are like paranoid libertarians who don't like the government.
But really there's nothing wrong with central banks.
So for starters, why are bitcoins inherently linked to criminal activity and that's a good reason to ban them.
Obviously empirically bitcoins are very heavily linked to criminal activity.
The evidence is very strong and that when you're talking about some of the most widespread drug enterprises in modern times or like weapons distribution or things like all kinds of like criminal trafficking like that.
Even human trafficking.
These things often take place on the internet and when they take place on the internet there is a high premium that that is placed on trying to keep your identity secret, trying to keep your assets secure, and trying to keep maximum control over your transactions to make sure that you can keep commiting your crimes in secret.
So that's why whether it was like like the silk road drug marketplace or sheep marketplace or silk roads two orr whatever is more common nowadays since they come and go pretty quickly this is why you see that they're almost solely operated bitcoin and they could be some of the largest drug trafficking hubs in the entire world.
You're talking about widespread criminal enterprises that prize bitcoins because of the fact that they're inherently less traceable, inherently less able to be regulated and less suspect the government regulations.
And all of those things make it so that it's quite bad and that crime is more likely to happen which is obviously not a very good thing.
And it also means law enforcement job is a whole lot more difficult.
But additionally bitcoins are also not really necessary which counter balances against the fact that they're inherently criminal.
Because at the end of the day there really isn't anything all that bad about central banks and there's really no reason why bitcoin have to exist in the first place.
The strongest argument is that people maybe have a preference against government preference against government regulated currency and they prefer these decentralized currency because they think that that makes the currency like more pure in its transactions and whatever in a free market.
But the problem is is that central banks are actually pretty useful.
They're pretty useful in making sure that economy stay stable, they're pretty useful in making sure that currencies stay stable, they're pretty sure in making sure that the value of the currency is like secured.
Central banks are pretty useful.
There's a reason why they exist and there's a reason why all actual governments for the most part like have them and use them pretty regularly.
Because central banks can perform a lot of really good and valuable functions for society, to make sure that the economy is more control because when the economy isn't under strict control when it is kind of just like more like the wild west, that really can hurt a lot of people's livelihoods when the price of when like the value of their currency can fluctuate up and down like incredibly wide margins that's really bad because people's livelihoods are then fluctuating up and down very rapidly.
So central banks are obviously very useful and you don't really need bitcoins for any particular reason unless like you're paranoid and you don't like the government.
So for all those reasons, ban bitcoin.