We should end mining because mining is incredibly destructive to the environment and it's simply something that we need to stop doing if we really want to have a hope of ending climate change.
So let's start by talking about the way in which mining is specifically bad because I think that there is a lot of reasons.
So the biggest reason is that mining is inherently destructive in the activity.
You have to dig deep underground, you have to sometimes it requires like clear cutting the natural environment so getting rid of forests getting rid of wildlife that can get in the way of the drilling operations and things like that.
Doing things like exploding passageways like using like dynamite on like animal habitats redirecting river flows maybe like there's all kinds of ways in which you have to damage the environment in order to extract resources.
So all of that's obviously bad besides the fact that it leads to pollution and leads to environmental destruction so like chemicals that get used in mining or to like break down rocks or environmental destruction terms of animals getting died or disease ridden all these things are and ultimately going to hurt humanity.
But beyond that the process of mining also has different range of impacts on the environment because the refining of earth metals, the transportation of earth metals, the manufacturing and like distribution all of these kinds of things are rather energy intensive in the way in which they operate.
You have to like like use like a whole ton of heat to like morph the metals oftentimes into the materials that they can then so that way they can then be used widely, on because they're not really useful in their natural states oftentimes you have to do stuff to them so generally there's like a whole lot of excess problems and consumption of like resources valuable resources that come from this.
So mining is obviously bad, but moreover if we end mining besides just getting rid of all these harms it forces us to recycle which is a whole lot better.
The reason it does this is because we need a lot of the materials that we minde, like everything from like our phones to computers to cars to like and literally anything that has some kind of metal in it so like I don't know maybe even your engagement ring or something like that minned materials are everywhere but the tragedy is is that a lot of them are oftentimes littering our landfills because we don't have sufficient recycling of goods and there's not really a sufficient necessity because oftentimes it is conventionally cheaper to just destroy the environment and mine more than it is to recycle.
And the reason for that is because of a lot of things like economies of scale but also just lack of government investment and subsidy and things like that.
By banning mining we actually force action, we force new decisions to be made that are likely going to further mining of recycling of minable goods.
So, because we need that, so for all those reasons you should end mining.