We should fight nationalism because it is incredibly difficult to critique the state and ultimately try to get better policies when you have a lot of nationalism and additionally because nationalism is immoral and it's something that ought be fought.
So let's start by talking about why it is in order to essentially live up to the ideals of democracy in a free society, it's necessary to fight nationalism.
And I think that the first reason for this is because when you have an overwhelming sense of nationalism, it ultimately corrupts policy and it corrupts decision making in incredibly profound ways.
And I think that the way in which this happens is in that politicians, people who can be like perceived as like strong men or or just individual people, essentially appeal to oftentimes the worst impulses of people.
The ideas that we need to preserve particular ways of life, the idea that you need to be greedy and put yourself and your own self interests before others, the idea that descent and critiquing things like the military or police forces are un-american or un-nationalistic, things like this are ultimately incredibly bad because obviously, first and foremost, I think that a lot of them are bad which is basically the second thing we're going to talk about.
But also it has a very important impact on suppressing discourse and ultimately denying an ability to really dissent is meaningfully against unjust actions.
And this is the case because when you're being labeled as anti-american or anti against against your own people, it becomes more difficult to state your arguments because instead of it becoming a discussion about the issues itself at hand, it becomes a discussion about your identity and a discussion about whether or not you're even like rationally looking for the betterment of society as opposed to some kind of insidious actor that's trying to undercut the the good of your own country.
And I think that that's a big problem.
But additionally I also think that nationalism is immoral.
And I think that it's immoral in a fundamental way in that it's very greedy and exclusive.
Nationalism is often predicated on the idea that you need to put the nation and national pride, amongst other things, and that this is a very important thing.
And I think that this is a bad thing several fold.
First and foremost, I think that national loyalty and identity and things like that aren't things that simply should be owed to a state.
You don't owe allegiance to a state.
And you ought not.
And the reason for that is because it an allegiance should be something that is earned and it's earned on the basis of representing the values of what you think are good.
And if a state doesn't do that then you are within your right to go against that and fight against that.
And ways that suppress you from doing that are immoral.
Additionally, it's an oftentimes incredibly greedy mindset that leads to you messing up a lot of people in a lot of places.
It can lead to things like colonialism or imperialism or wars and things like that with the intent of getting your own resources enriched and things like that.
It can be seen as exclusionary because you don't want to see a risk to your alleged way of life, or you don't want to let in other people from other countries because you see that as a threat to your own life and things like that.
And I think that it creates this kind of false narrative about what the actual impacts are.
So for all of those reasons we should fight nationalism.