We should end censorship because people have the right to speak and it's in one of the most basic and important rights that we have to uphold.
So let's start by grounding this.
Obviously in most democratic and liberal societies we value speech incredibly heavily.
We try to maximally protect speech unless in such a way as it can maybe directly incite violence or it would some kind of lie that can hurt someone's career like libel or slander with few limited exceptions by and large speech is very powerfully protected and there's good reasons for this because in order to live in a democratic society you have to be able to meaningfully affect the political process.
And this goes down to like the basic individual level, the idea behind a democracy is that individuals should be able to participate in the system and affect the system in such a way in which it can be representative of what the people want.
So how does this look like in practice?
Because that sounds nice but you need to make sure that you have freedom of speech as an actual way to enforce the ideals of democracy and this is because when you live in a democratic society you're going to have people that are going to have a myriad of different views and when you don't have censorship you allow all these different people to express their views and even more importantly than just being able to express views people are able to express these nonmajoritarian or even more controversial views that are able to first try to persuade other people and second try to organize around like-minded individuals because that expression can be a signaling mechanism to other similarly minded people as a call to action or a call to change of some kind or to organize.
So speech is really the speech is at the bedrock of the way in which you can try to impact change in a democratic society and that makes it political and important in the most powerful ways possible.
And I think that when you're talking about censorship this is particularly important because you want to look at the things in which the government would want to censor.
It would likely want to censor speech that it deems immoral for some reason so maybe that could be some kind of like speech that goes against predominate religious beliefs it could be speech that is seen as threatening to the state so it could maybe be seen as like more socialist kind of speaking in like a capitalist society that we live in.
It could be speech that it could be like speech talking about police abusing black people in america which could be seen in a lot of ways as a threat to law and order there's a ton of ways in which censorship can be used by political actors as a way to silence the voices of people and in incredibly unfair ways.
And even more important than this, it can create an echo chamber when you don't when you allow the government to essentially pick and choose what kind of speech it wants to allow to be heard.
And this is true because first of all people can change their minds and respond to hearing different arguments and voices around them.
So like if you're for example only watching fox news and you're getting your daily dose of propaganda from fox news and that's it you're probably not going to be openminded to different perspectives that are being presented to you because you're only watching this one thing.
The exposure to speech that you have now immagine that's like society was able be censored in such a way by the government in which now fox news is the only source of like news that is available because all other sources of news are like silenced that's like like a tragic reality that you can live in if you allow censorship because it would function in such a way in which opinions are already preordained amongst populations and they try to force particular like thoughts on to people and people respond to that.
People respond to that because people are only going to be able to like see the news that they actually see.
So for all those reasons we should end censorship.