We should not introduce goal-line technology because it will make soccer or I guess football, it'll make it worse and less enjoyable.
And the reason for that is because while it may make goals more accurate, it'll take some of the entertainment out of sports, because I think that bandwagoning against refs and arbitrary things like that are a part of sports that we all appreciate and value.
So I want to start by talking about why I don't actually think that the that accuracy in decisions actually matters, because like the world cup isn't like politics, it's not economics or science or things like that.
The accuracy of your result doesn't actually matter in the same way in that like if like a movie is marketed as historical fiction, it doesn't matter if it's based on a true story or if it and if it takes liberty in changing things.
In the same way, sports is, at the end of the day, entertainment.
Sports is about the way in which you can best entertain people, and this is obviously just true factually, but also based on what sports cares about at the end of the day.
They care about the entertainment factor, because that's how you get things like multibillion dollar TV deals, merchandise and ticket sales, and all that kind of stuff.
So, the question shouldn't be what's more accurate, the question should be what's more entertaining.
And I think that not having a goal-line technology is much more entertaining for a big reason.
People love blaming officials for mistakes.
People love to scapegoat officials, people like to have officials like essentially like scapegoated as a common enemy or ostracized in that regard.
Officials are pretty easy to like to mock or whatever.
It also adds people also like it to some extent when officials make mistakes, because it adds to some of the like drama, the , oh, what if this happened?
What if that didn't happen?
So it can add to dramas in that regard.
So that's definitely something that's nice.
And I think that this isn't something that we should undersell, because one of the biggest things that makes us, or it's profitable but also enjoyable, is the community that it creates amongst fans.
And I think that one of the biggest things that fans enjoy bonding over is when refs make mistakes that are blatantly wrong.
Like you go to any like sports arena in america and you see a ref that makes a mistake, or even if the ref does something right, you hear " ref, you suck ", just like echoing throughout a stadium, and that's something that's pretty powerful.
It's like a part of the sports experience in the same way chanting " defense " is part of the experience of like going to a basketball game or something like that.
Chanting " ref, you suck " is also like that.
And introducing goal-line technology just takes away opportunities to enjoy one of the most enjoyable parts of sports, and that is blaming refs because your team wasn't good enough to win or messed up.
So for all those reasons, don't introduce goal-line technology.