We should not fight illegal immigration because illegal immigration is absolutely fantastic, nothing wrong with it.
So let's start by with an overview about this.
I think that legal immigration is far too restrictive.
Legal immigration doesn't let in enough people to help our economy, it doesn't help in enough people from a humanitarian perspective, it doesn't let in enough refugees, it doesn't take in enough vulnerable people and it doesn't do so in a diverse enough way that helps a wide variety of people.
So since the legal immigration is failing, and since by and large it restricts the abilities of people whether it's like for, whether it's family members or minors or simply people who are in vulnerable situations, who are being exploited, who want to make their better life somewhere else.
And illegal immigration is by and large being used by good people who are in bad situations.
So I don't really think that there's anything wrong with illegal immigration.
And I actually think that immigration, illegal or legal, can have a whole positive range of benefits for people.
And I think that a lot of this can start with the economy, which is probably popular amongst all people.
You look at people in america for example, people who got people who got possible deportation deferred under the dream act or doctor recipients in america, or people who are illegal immigrants who grew up in america but they're still illegal immigrants, and when they were given quasi-legal status they were able to become professors in universities, they could become doctors, they served they could serve in the military, do all kinds of incredible things that really helped society and all of these are good.
So when we're talking about illegal immigrants there's are really wrong and like horrible stereotype that it's just going to be people who don't want to bother learning english, people who are going to be on the bottom runs of society, people who commit crimes, people who have all these kind of like all these horrible stereotypes, when the reality couldn't be more different.
When the reality is that people who come to america to as immigrants oftentimes work harder than anyone else, are less likely to break the law than anyone else, and really want to do all they can to truly make a better lives for themselves and the people who come after them.
And I also think they fill a need in a lot of ways.
Because there's a lot of jobs that simply americans simply don't want to do.
Things that don't pay well enough for a lot of americans that think is worth their time, are jobs that immigrants are willing to do.
And moreover, there's also a lot of immigrants who have really specialized skills, specialized talents, who aren't able to use those talents to help in their own countries oftentimes simply because maybe there isn't as much of a demand for certain kinds of like say technicians in like a developed developing country as there isn't silicon valley.
Or maybe like there could be a whole variety of reasons.
But moreover, america often by and large has declining birth rates amongst like the average like white person who's lived here for a long time.
And minority groups and and immigrants in society are responsible in a lot of ways for increasing workforce, for making it so that the economy keeps growing year after year, which is also a good thing.
But there's also obviously just like a humane aspect of this.
People are coming from places where there's famine, where there's diseases, where there's war, where there's political religious or sexual persecution, and they want to come to america or other places in developed countries to make a better life for themselves.
When they often come with little money and an opportunity to change things.
It just makes sense.
It's just like a basic thing of empathy that for some reason some people lack, but is the basic thing that like you should do what you can to help people because it's the right thing to do.
So for all those reasons we should not fight illegal immigration, we should welcome illegal immigrants.