We should not abolish the monarchy because monarchy is awesome and democracy is awful.
And the biggest reason why monarchy is a whole lot better than democracy is because people can't actually be trusted to reliably rule themselves in an effective way.
And the big reason for that is because people are incredibly irrational and don't actually govern in the way in which is what's best for them.
So let's break down how this happens.
So first and foremost people are very easily corrupted by other people.
Given people are really easily corrupted by other people.
Whether those other people are religious figures those other people are like very powerful economic actors or political actors.
People oftentimes are vulnerable especially given that people don't usually often know like which information to trust or who to trust people oftentimes make very wrong decisions about what's actually going to best for them.
The people are rather naive about what's going to be best for them.
So that's a really big problem because what the result of that is often is people want to support policies that are against their own interests.
So you have like idiots who would be harmed for example you would have idiots who were harmed by say the repeal of obamacare in america who are nevertheless in favor of its repeal because who knows why because they're stupid and they can't be trusted to rule themselves.
But another thing another like just one of the other many problems that people have is that people tend to be distracted oftentimes by like base urges or transient problems so if like you have like a terrorist attack let's say that provokes you the immediate gut reaction of the populace is like justice and they whoever did it kill everybody responsible blah blah blah stuff like that.
But the problem is that oftentimes that's not even if that's like their gut response it's not really the rational response and it could for example be something that maybe like indiscriminately bombing people for example could be something that makes situations a whole lot worse even if it's the situation the result that people want because in a democracy it makes all the people feel better.
So there's like a whole other there's there's those problems but also a whole lot of others that result in people just being very irresponsible about the way that which they actually govern themselves.
The next thing that I want to talk about though is that is a point about stability.
Because I think by and large this isn't really an important discussion to have in like the abstract or in european countries because if you get rid of most of the monarchs in european countries or like the emperor of japan you're probably not going to change anything most by and large things are going to stay same the same where this discussion actually is going to have a whole lot of importance is in the middle east where there's a high concentration of monarchies there's not that many democracies there and it be very bad because I think that a lot of these problems that I was just talking about are more likely to be amplified in middle eastern countries like you look at situations like in syria or even in egypt or places like that you're very likely to see the result of like popular rule resulting in a whole lot of instability a whole lot of violence over various groups trying to get control because there's oftentimes it's rather sad but there's tends to be a correlation between like wanting to like get control over oil or other kinds of natural resources like that and violence there's also the very like a prominent presence of radical religious fervor in the region and oftentimes the most radical people tend to be the ones that are best best able to get power because they're most willing to do the most violent and abhorrent things.
There are all kinds of ways in which democracy would be pretty bad for that region specifically and therefore for the world so for all those reasons we should not abolish the monarchy.