We should adopt atheism because it's correct and it's rational but also it's probably more empowering for people and can incentivize and encourage better action.
Which is great so let's start by talking about why atheism is just correct.
And the biggest reason there is that it's just pretty likely that god doesn't exist, there's no evidence of god and when you think about it most of the the theories that would like justify god's existence are absolutely ridiculous.
So for starters there's no reason why like a traditional judeo-christian god is any more likely to exist than like zeus or poseidon.
It's more likely that gods just come go in and out of fashion over time and that different cultures just developed different ways to explain the unexplainable.
So why is there lightning happening?
Oh zeus is just pissed off.
Why is there a flood?
Oh well because god's angry at the inherent sins of humanity.
Things like that.
Probably pretty easily explainable natural phenomenon that people in a more primitive time needed to find explanations for because no one likes to think, oh well bad things just happen via like probable chance bad things just happen randomly.
People are always searching for an explanation.
And nowadays we use science to explain things because that's like a rational way to do things and an actual provable verifiable way to test things.
But sometimes old habits die hard so people still believe in god because they've been told lies about god and things like that throughout their entire history.
Obviously there's no evidence of god because god is something that is an inherently unprovable concept that relies on faith rather than proof which is already a red flag there.
But beyond that when you think about the stories a lot of them just sound, on its face, ridiculous.
Like of course jesus didn't walk on water.
You can't walk on water.
It's ridiculous to think something like that.
Or the fact that like god just like created the earth out of like sheer will and then like god created like adam and eve because god just decided that they wanted people to exist or whatever.
Like these stories are just so perfectly wrapped up in a bow tie or it's just it's like ridiculous to think of such a thing.
Or why aren't why don't we live in a utopia?
Oh, because these original humans committed some kind of sin.
It's so like neatly wrapped up and like it's honestly mindboggling how people believe these kinds of things given how ridiculous they are.
And it's probably just a product of the fact that they've been lied to throughout their entire lives.
But beyond that I also think that it's just going to be better for people and more empowering for people if god just doesn't exist.
So why is it going to be better?
First and foremost, violence.
Obviously people commit violent acts for a wide variety of reasons but religion is a huge driving force behind that because religion, in an because since religion is already a realm of irrational behavior, a world in which you can't have any kind of reasonable or logical discussion with somebody because they're believing in stuff that is like made up fairy tales, they're more likely to commit violent acts in the name of god.
And while all people don't do that, it's very prominent and we shouldn't hide from the fact that for all of human history people have been oppressed, persecuted and and like violated because of god and this is something that has always happened and keeps happening and will continue to happen because that's just the way religion is.
And it oftentimes endorses violence like when the jews moved into israel god told them to destroy the canaanites that lived there and like rape and pillage their land because god doesn't care about these kinds of things because they're not true believers.
Like it goes across religious boundaries and it's always existed.
Religion is just an inherently violent thing and it endorses and loves violence and that's a bad thing.
But beyond that I also think that there is an empowering thing about accepting responsibility for our own actions.
When there's a mass shooting, when there's a terrorist attack, we shouldn't give people our thoughts and prayers because thoughts and prayers don't do anything.
They don't solve the fact that people don't have healthcare when they get shot.
They don't solve the fact that people are going to keep committing acts of violence because there's no mental health care treatment.
They don't solve the fact that people commit acts of terrorism because of political issues and bombing of people's homes.
They ignore all these things and boil it down to the most basic and common denominator and it's honestly ridiculous.
Of course we should adopt atheism.