We should subsidize embryonic stem cell research, because stem cell research is absolutely fantastic, and comes with little to no real ethical consequences.
So, let's start by talking about why stem cell research is so important, and why it's so good.
I think that we can break down the categories of problems, that stem cell research can solve, into two big groups: the problems of curing something, and the problems of costs of cures being inaccessible or too expensive.
So, let's start by talking about the problems of cures altogether.
There is a lot of things that we don't have the capacity to cure in the status quo.
We don't have the capacity to cure a lot of nerve damage that can be occurred, a lot of things like paralysis, there is a lot of kinds of disfigurement, that can be permanent in a lot of ways, stem cell creates an opportunity to actually cure these, previously incurable, things, because by ever increasing and better research, we have a way that we can program stem cells, so that they can replace whatever damaged cells are.
So, for example, if somebody maybe suffers brain damage, and you don't just make new brain cells, in the way that you make skin cells, you can now maybe possibly even help somebody with that brain damage, by programming these stem cells to become replacement brain cells.
This is like incredible technology.
This can change people's lives, people that have been living with problems for life long, can have cures for these kinds of problems.
Additionally, it can also help with problems of excessive costs and unavailability.
Because in the status quo, when you need to replace something, like let's say you need to replace a kidney, or like a liver, or something, like well probably not a liver, but like a kidney, or maybe a heart transplant, or something like that, when these things happen in the status quo, you need to wait for some kind of donor, or you need to like spend a whole lot of money on synthetic products, and things like that.
So a lot of these things are oftentimes difficult to access to, because like organ donation not a lot of people are always on organ donation list, a lot of people don't end up giving things, a lot of organs are vital and you can't donate them, you have to worry about a person being a match to you as well, there's a whole lot of barriers in place that make it difficult, for a lot of people to get access to this.
This is especially important given that, oftentimes we're talking about emergencies, you can't just wait for a heart transplant if you need one.
So, stem cells create an opportunity to solve a lot these problems, because you can essentially take stem cells, they can be a perfect match for the they can to completely replace just about anything, and they can be created as like a match to the person itself that is needing a treatment.
So, it can solve a lot of problems in that way too.
So, finally let's talk about moral costs, and why I think that the moral costs, like ethical implications are pretty much nonsense.
So, there's a couple of reasons for this, first and foremost, by and large, most most stem cells don't actually come from aborted fetuses, they come from things that would be maybe regularly discarded as a part of birth anyway, they can be stem cells that maybe are like clones, or they just come from other organs, like a lot of stem cells don't necessarily come from aborted fetuses in the first place, they just kind of exist, so there's really no reason why you shouldn't just study them.
But, even if they do come from aborted fetuses, it's not like were making babies for the explicit purpose of aborting them so we got their stem cells.
These are, by and large, people who are getting abortions anyway, that'll continue getting abortions anyway, and they're donating stem cells to science, which, for the life of me, I don't understand why is a problem, you can donate your body to science upon death, if you consented to doing so, it's like basically recycling, and it does good to society, there's no reason why it's a bad thing.
And the great benefits, even if there are ethical implications, the massive massive health benefits this can help, the lives that this can save is simply more important.
So, for those reasons subsidize stem cell research.