We should limit the internet of things because the internet of things has it'll have an incredibly dangerous impact on our lives in a lot of ways if we don't have sensible regulation.
There's been a whole great deal of technological progress over the past couple of decades to the point where in a lot of ways the fabric of society in our culture is completely changing at a faster pace than ever before given the forces of technology and I think in a lot of ways we're not prepared for it at the start we want to I want to talk about cyber security because I think in a lot of ways the internet is incredibly unsafe and that a lot of your data is incredibly unsafe and the premier example of this is like throughout the past year there's been a a a great number of high profile hacking incidents whether it's like equifax getting hacked or other similar attacks that were employing the use of ransomware.
By and large these tools and tactics that were being used were as a result of literally the CIA getting hacked and CIA hacking tools getting released to basically the entire internet which kind of presents a problem when like in theory one of the most advanced hacking like public agencies in the world, like in theory the CIA probably has pretty good cyber security, if they can't even protect their own systems and the tools they use to attack like people and corporations and governments, then got released the entire internet that was a big part of why we went from seeing run of the mill hacking to more recently much more widespread hacking.
Obviously there's other high profile examples too like russia hacking.
Like the united states literally hacking US elections and hacking the emails of like political parties.
Horrible things that prove that the internet just is not secure and I think in a lot of ways the internet of things make that worse.
It is going to centralize your life into single locations so when all of these devices your car, your phone, your your refrigerator, are all connected into a single server you're the it's it's you're much more likely to be vulnerable because rather than having to break into each one of those individual things to get access to personal information, instead of having to break into your car and your house and your refrigerator and your phone they now only after break into like one centralized location.
I think in addition to that obviously just the greater number of things on the internet just creates more vulnerability so that's the second thing.
But third and foremost I also think that there is more likely going to be quality distinction from cyber security.
And this is like so it's like for example you could maybe look at like password like encryption on websites where like by and large if you like were to call like if I have my like I have a password with IBM and I call IBM customers support, I probably can't just be like hey I want you to reset my password for me because IBM will presumably say we don't have your password it comes it like it's encrypted and like we don't it's a security thing, we don't have access to these kinds of things.
But there's probably a good deal of websites maybe like shadier parts of the internet, especially if you're like not as informed about things, where maybe these things like are just like sitting around and this could be the same with various devices where there's going to be quality distinctions there's not gonna be necessarily quality common controls on these kind of things to make sure that it's going to be safe.
But the next thing is also just like an issue of like privacy and autonomy because besides all of those things, besides like hacking and things like that there's also a privacy risk in corporations.
Corporations being able to sell data on you, information on your identity on literally every aspect of your life what you eat, how you sleep, how you drive, how you walk.
Corporations can sell that to basically anyone who wants that information and that's important because that's can be like like your online identity in a lot of ways nowadays encompasses a huge amount of your identity.
The final argument is I think that this is going to be really bad for user experience as well.
I'm imagining a future in which toyota makes a multi-billion dollar contract to use apple maps instead of google maps because apple pays them more and that really sucks for me if I have a toyota car because I think google maps is better and all kinds of like technological implications, proprietary software implications that are probably not going to be all that great.
So for all of those reasons, we should limit the internet of things.