We should not limit genetic testing because people have a right to do what they want with their own DNA and people could are very legitimate and important reasons for wanting to get genetic testing.
So let's start by talking about why people should just be able to do what they want with their DNA.
And the basic thing behind this is that , generally in like western liberal democracies, if there is any kind of important principle it's that whenever possible, as long as it doesn't hurt anyone else in some other kind of way or present some kind of a reasonable risk, people should be able to make choices about what they do with their bodies and how they live their lives.
And in a lot of ways there's a few things that are more intimate choices than what you do with your own DNA.
Because your DNA is literally the blueprint for your entire body.
And that's, it's important in that in the same way that like you should have the right to like maybe get a tattoo if you want to for like whatever reason or choose to pursue some kind of career path, your literal DNA is a part of you in the most intimate ways possible.
So if you want to get genetic testing, for whatever reason you want you don't even need to have a good reason for it, the fact that it's your DNA, you could do whatever you want with it.
If you want to take some of your DNA and wash it down the toilet, there you go.
That's your right.
That like spit into a test tube and like flush it down the toilet.
Do whatever you want.
It's your DNA and you and you have like you should be able to have complete agency and control over it in the ways in which you choose.
But beyond that there's obvious important reasons why people should be able to get DNA testing because people oftentimes sometimes don't know a lot about their like ancestral history and maybe want to learn a lot about it, so like a good example of this is that like like maybe you're like a member of the jewish diaspora community like I am, where you are ancestors vaguely fled europe at some point in history before the holocaust and you don't really know where you're from, but like your your you mostly like identify as american but maybe you think would be cool to like know where you're like ancestry originates from or like where.
And like beyond that, oftentimes people can use it to like connect to distant family members and relatives, maybe you can learn cool facts about like your family history like, I don't know, maybe you're like you are related to george washington like by your fifth cousin or whatever like it could just be an interesting thing that like you enjoy doing you learn more about and that's great.
But also there is obviously like genetic testing can be important for like things like disease prevention and the like as well.
A lot of diseases are hereditary, and if not hereditary are maybe they could be dormant or something like that, where it's important to make sure that like you're able to identify possible like genetic disorders.
Maybe so you can get treatment for them or maybe because you're just more prepared for the fact that like when you have a kid or anything like that I'm you're able to make more educated decisions about what you're going to do so for all those reasons we should not limit