We should not ban naturopathy.
For starters I wanna ground this debate by talking about things that we think are acceptable.
Because totally banning something doesn't mean that you just have to leave it completely unregulated.
Obviously a ban is incompatible with partial regulation, but I think it's perfectly fine to not ban something and instead have reasonable regulations on things.
Like maybe these people can't call themselves doctors like literally medical doctors like they want to, and that could be illegal, you can regulate the way they market themselves, in like the same way you can't call champagne champagne unless it's from france, you can maybe you could have restrictions like health insurance providers can't cover these kinds of things as medical expenses so you have to pay for it yourself, to use like economic incentives that discourage people from doing it.
Maybe you could even go so far to have regulations on whether or not your kids should be able to have access to it.
But banning the profession wholesale, completely stopping people from using naturopathy if they desire to, is I think far is just too far.
So why is this the case?
I think we need to start by talking about like what we really value as like a in a free society and what we should be allowed to do with our bodies.
Because if there is anything that we should have control over, its being able to like make medical decisions, which are a really intimate thing, over our bodies and our health.
Because that's a very important thing to you personally and you shouldn't you should have minimal government involvement in those kinds of individual decisions that people are making.
And I think that in general people are like autonomous and people are rational and people have brains, and they can make choices if they want to.
And if naturopathy is something they want to pursue, then they might have some reason or and it might be a good reason.
Moreover, or it might be a bad reason but that's fine too.
Moreover it might be like a religious reason or spiritual reason.
Things that the government certainly shouldn't have any business in mandating that people have to go against religious or spiritual beliefs.
But to apply this a little bit more, I think that it's very important that, in these particular cases that we prioritize people's autonomy to do what they want with their bodies for the medical decisions.
Because keep in mind that this is really hurting anyone else in society, it's only going to be, the worst case scenario is that the person who is like engaging in naturopathy as their medical treatment is going to not get better, or maybe they're even going to get sick.
The worst case scenario is that person's going to die.
In which case, oh well, the government shouldn't be in the business of deciding how people live their lives down to like the like essence of like medical decisions, especially in that like you probably have a right to die as you see fit anyway in a lot of ways.
And that certainly it's not the government's place to say how you should put a value on your life.
Whether you want to live longer or shorter, if that means necessarily trade off with going against religious or spiritual beliefs that you may have.
The government isn't a place to put like any kind of moral value on what people wanna do with their lives and how they want to live with their how they want to live their lives.
So like the worst case scenario is that these treatment simply don't work and that's unfortunate for people.
But it's really like naive to think that people who go in for like naturopathy treatment don't like, aren't aware of possible risks and things like that.
In the same way that when people go to get traditional medical treatments people are aware of both possible benefits and side effects of treatment.
So for all those reasons I think that we should leave it to people to decide their own medical treatments and not ban naturopathy.