We should absolutely not increase internet censorship, because censorship of the internet is one of the easiest ways for states to increase a near dictatorial, if not outright dictatorial like, state over their people, violate people's rights, their freedoms of expression, and all of that.
So, I want to first talk about distinctions between what internet censorship actually looks like, because they think that, by and large, the way that censorship works is that the government decides what content it doesn't like, and it gets rid of that.
And I think that, that is distinct from, maybe possibly, regulating criminal content.
So, I think that if you're trying to use the internet to threaten somebody, or to like spread hate speech, or things like that, although hate speech, while explicitly outlawed in places like europe, is legal to some extent in places like america.
I think that a good place to draw the line is that, if activity is like criminal in if like the activity is like outright criminal, then I think that it's reasonable to regulate those things.
But, I think that by and large the discussion about censorship is not really focused on criminal activity, because I think that that's pretty obvious.
By and large, it's focused on political political differences, or on ideas of like obscenity, or ideas of lewdness, and that like, and I think that on all those levels, it's incredibly problematic for the government to regulate in these ways.
So, first I want to talk about freedom of expression, because I think that in a lot of societies, but especially democratic societies, that may be considering more censorship of the internet, the most important thing is that a democratic society is just a clash of different values in the society, and the ones that are seen as most popular, or most like the best values are the ones that should be implemented.
But, there's no real way to actually decide what the best ideas are, without having discussion about them, without actually having engagement, and without people actually making their decisions on issues known.
The way in which people are able to meaningfully express their issues in in an informed way, is by having access to whole wide range of perspectives, and this is why not censoring the internet is absolutely vital, because when the internet tries to say, that these are views that are contradictory to what the government believes, or the state believes, or these are seen as like too progressive, too lewd, too whatever, all of these are just ways, in which the government is trying to restrict the scope of how you can actually debate about things.
It's trying to say: this is something that isn't acceptable right now, and it's so unacceptable, we're not even going to let you debate or discuss whether it should be acceptable.
And, I think that that's incredibly messed up, because while you can always, as a government, regulate like outcomes, so for example, a government can always make murder illegal, it should never be able to regulate discussion about what does laws should be, it should never be able to regulate like discussions about how are society should operate.
And, internet censorship is often inherently going to go in these kinds of things.
Like, even if you're talking about, in the most basic level, just lewd content, or maybe something like pornography, or whatever, these are still ways in which people are expressing themselves, they're in like an artistic way, or it could be a way of them saying like, this is a way to get a message across, and I think, that it's just not good when governments are given wider abilities to regulate how people are acting on the internet.
So for all of those reasons, we should not increase internet censorship.