We should ban home schooling because it does a lot of damage to children.
And I think that the biggest thing that we have to start off with is that any of the harms that come with home schooling, which I'll explain in a minute, it's important to put this in the context of choice and agency for the child.
Because when you're talking about home schooling this isn't something that kids have any reasonable degree of control over.
Parents obviously should have some degree of autonomy over how they wanna raise their child.
That's fine.
But when it comes to a very basic things, like the ability of a child to socialize, the ability of a child to get an education, the possibility of future success for that child, those are things that are going to affect the child to the rest of their life.
Well into their adulthood and beyond that.
So it's important to make sure that the best decision is being made on behalf of that child.
And I think that when it comes to home schooling that is almost never the best decision for that child.
So let's talk about reasons why this is the case.
So first there's social consequences to this and this is obvious.
You're first not really socializing with friends, you're less likely going to make human connections with people, so not having friends can be something that can be psychologically harmful to a lot of kids.
But beyond that you're also not learning how to socialize with adults outside of your family in the same way.
You're not interacting with teachers you're not interacting with other adults.
And all of those things can have profound consequences on later life.
They can have consequences on your ability to do basic things in the business world, obviously, like network, ability to connect with people, but beyond that they're also going to probably affect your ability to be satisfied and happy with your life.
Because you're not going to really develop a lot of social skills, you're not going to develop as many friendships, all things that are probably going to lead you being less happy, which is obviously not a good thing.
But beyond that, I also think that home schooling is going to have a direct consequence of your education.
Because by and large, professional teachers, people who actually get paid to teach are going to be able to do a better job than parents are going to be able to do, or some kind of like religious instructor or anything like that.
The by and large public schools or even a or private schools or whatever, like, but educational institutions are pretty effective in making it so that you actually learn various things.
And that's important because there's more qualified people.
But beyond that there's also something about learning in groups.
You learn it with you could do group projects, you learn teamwork, you learn all various kinds of skills.
And that's important because a lot of the work you're going to do in later life is going to be in the context of working with other people.
And if you're not able to like do like learn with other people like divide projects with other people, things like that, you're probably not going to get that far.
So you're not going to learn as many things that are going to be good, you're going to have a worse education and you're also going to miss out on skills that are uniquely important.
But finally I also think that it's important to look at the reality of why a lot of people choose to get home school.
And I think that a lot of parents choose to home school their children often to avoid giving them a legitimate education.
So whether it's trying to avoid trying to force on the child a religious education and then try to deprive them of the opportunity to have a public education because of that, whether it's someone who's like famous like a child celebrity, or whether it's like lavar ball who is playing lamelo ball out of high school, things like that.
Like usually these choices are being made for some kind of our religious reason, some kind of financial reason, but not necessarily because it's in the best interests of the child.
And I think that's a real problem because you should be able to just avoid school under the auspices of a of a home schooling education.
So for all those reasons, we should ban home schooling.