We should end the use of economic sanctions because they're ineffective and they ultimately only hurt the people themselves and they don't actually hurt or change the policies of the people in power.
So let's start by why sanctions are an ineffective means and they only just hurt people.
So, for starters, they're designed to change the actions of leaders.
Oftentimes they're targeting autocrats or dictators or single party governments.
They're oftentimes not targeting democratic societies or at least when western countries use them.
And this is important because this means you're trying to attack single leaders or unelected groups in power that are, in a lot of ways, unaccountable.
So these people aren't really going to actually struggle when you put economic sanctions on them.
These people who are occupying immense degrees of privilege because they literally control entire countries are always going to have access to black markets and they're always going to have access to other actors who are similarly sanctioned.
So you put sanctions on north korea, it does trade with china.
You put sanctions on russia, it can do trade with like anyone else maybe iran or something.
You put sanctions on iran, it can do trade with russia and north korea.
You put sanctions on cuba, it can do trade with literally anyone else in the world.
You put sanctions on venezuela, you're in the same boat.
Pretty much like any country that you put sanctions on it's always going to have access to other countries.
And that's a big problem because it's an inherent loophole in the way sanctions work.
Sanctions only work if literally everybody is cooperating, if everybody is on the same page.
And this is something that almost never happens because there's always going to be disagreements in the ideologies that are underpinning the the use of the sanction in the first place.
So you're probably not going to be all that effective.
What is going to be effective?
The ability of the average person in that country to access goods and services.
So while US sanctions on a place like venezuela or cuba isn't actually going to affect the people at the very top, it's probably going to at minimum make the cost of goods more expensive because it's maybe going to have to come from actors that are farther away, actors that don't have the ability to produce things as cheaply, etcetera.
Maybe there's also certain kinds of goods and services that are uniquely produced by america or could be like done cheaper for america by america or other kinds of countries that are putting the sanctions on you and that's going to be a struggle.
So for example, you see in places like venezuela where there's a huge shortage of all kinds of supplies because american companies that supply a vast majority of like products to the world whether it's like like sanitary supply like procter and gamble, johnson and johnson, like things that like basic things like that which are essentially not available in places like venezuela.
Cause you put sanctions on them or inability to access like say american products.
That's not going to hurt the people at the very top, it's going to hurt people on the ground.
Same in north korea, when you make it so that there's no businesses in north korea, I don't think kim jong un's life is going to get any worse, he's going to do whatever the hell he wants.
Who's going to be hurt is the people whose economy is going to be a whole lot worse.
And that brings me to the next argument about why sanctions are ineffective.
I think that they're only going to serve to make the people's lives worse and they're going to look at the people who are making their lives worse, namely the west or the person who's putting the sanction on them in the first place, and this is only going to further support for the government in the first place.
Because oftentimes these autocrats come into power and they're seen as like great they're seen as like protectors of a certain group, they're it's oftentimes an underpinning of like nationalist blood in soil tendencies that push autocrats and dictators and like people like that into power in the first place.
So like like so like the like kim dynasty comes into power during the korean war after the united states drops like like thousands of tons of napalm on their cities and they're burning to the ground and then obviously like the kim dynasty oppresses the people of north korea but the fact that they that the fact that like whether in this case not military damage but economic damage, the fact that economic damage is coming at the hand of a western country, makes it more likely that you're only going to see support for regimes in the first place and their power being further in locked.
So for all those reasons we should end sanctions.