We should have year round schooling because it'll be better for the students who will be able to better enjoy their vacations and it'll also be better for actual learning.
So for starters, year round school obviously doesn't just mean that you go to school everyday of the year and you get rid of the summer.
We probably should have a similar number of days off, a similar number of vacations for people but now those can be better spread out.
So instead of getting just those three weeks, a spring break, and a winter break, and a couple of random holidays, now you can actually get more substantive vacation.
So maybe instead of getting just thursday and friday off for thanksgiving you get the whole week off.
Maybe instead of just getting instead of getting two weeks off for winter break you get a month off.
Maybe you get a month in the summer instead of three months and it would basically be a redistribution of the days off.
And I think that that would probably be a whole lot better for a couple of reasons.
First, because I think kids will like it more.
Most kids aren't going to be like losing the sacrifice of going to summer camp or something like that because most kids can't afford that and most kids, when they're going on some kind of trip or vacation, it's usually something that's a lot shorter, it's usually something that you can do within the confines of a month.
You don't really need a whole summer to do that.
And most of the time, the people that get affected the most are people who are just kind of sitting around all summer because they don't really have opportunities to do a whole lot of other things with their time over their summer.
Their parents work, so they're kind of just sitting around and they would probably be a whole lot better served.
And I think people, the students themselves would probably like this is if they were given more breaks where they can recharge their batteries.
Because being a student is pretty stressful.
You have a lot of things, you're taking a lot of classes, you have to do work when you get home usually you have extracurricular activities, you may have a job too, it's certainly no walk in the park being a kid especially if you're like being pushed academically or you're doing a sport or something like that.
You have a lot of things that you're usually doing so getting vacation days is nice and it's nice to have more than just a couple of days a year or two big breaks a year and then summer break.
It would probably be nice if those things were more spread out because people get burned out and in order to recover from the burn out you don't really need a whole summer, you only need maybe a couple of days or a week and that's something that I think from a health standpoint would be a lot better for kids.
But also there's the obvious benefits of memory and learning because one of the biggest complaints that a lot of teachers have and it makes a whole lot of sense is that people forget things and you have to spend a and you have to spend like the first month or two of school just reviewing old material because when you completely because because when you spend three or more months just not studying or not really doing anything for school, you're probably going to forget those things and that's going to be pretty helpful in harmful or detrimental to your learning.
But the final thing is that the idea of having a summer vacation and the winter break and things like the current system of vacation is pretty archaic.
It was like designed around the harvest basically like there's no real reason why we have vacations when we do.
It's just kind of something that's always existed so there's no real reason why we shouldn't try to get some reform through.
So for all those reasons we should have year round school.