We should prohibit tower blocks, because tower blocks are bad, because cities are bad, and tower blocks enable cities and that's bad.
So, let's start by laying out what I think that the comparative is in this debate.
I think that the comparative is either, much smaller cities, that don't really need to rely on tower blocks, or suburbs, or rural life.
So, let's talk about this comparative here.
I think that first, it's important to establish that, if we were to prohibit tower blocks, like large cities and mega-cities, it wouldn't be possible for them to form, because there are simply going to be too many space constraints, and not enough actual property to allow for the heavy and high concentration of people, without tower blocks.
It's simply uneconomical.
So, why are cities bad, and why should we be disincentivized by prohibiting tower blocks?
So, I think in a lot of ways, tower blocks directly influence on these things, first on an economic level.
Keep in mind that, when economies are centered around large cities, what ultimately happens is that there's a lot of economic pressure that, in order to find jobs, forces people to go toward cities, because that's where like job markets and the economy caters around, because that's where most people live.
So this creates a problem on a couple of levels: first and foremost, cities are just always going to have higher costs of living, because whether it's like the higher concentration of people, the higher regulations that are oftentimes associated with cities, you look at empirical evidence, and you see that cities have higher costs of living, than just about any suburb you can imagine, especially when it comes to housing.
Now this is very important, because simply building more tower blocks isn't actually a way, in which you can realistically solve this problem.
Because, even in cities where there is always like massive amounts of tower blocks in existence, they're still not enough to actually keep up with the demand.
So, I think that you need a much more fundamental restructuring of the economy to make sure that cost of living go down.
And I think this is also important because, this essentially coerces people into seeking out jobs, that are likely going to be over-strained, or over-stress, and it leads to unemployment or underemployment, because people going to cities expecting to be able to have jobs, expecting to be able to, if they do get a job, be able to live on a day to day basis, and like have a job that will actually be suitable for the cost of living in the area, and there's oftentimes a mismatch there.
So, I think that cities are fundamentally bad in that sense.
But I also think that cities are bad for us on a health level, because keep in mind that, when you live in places that have like a ton of tower blocks, these things often come at the expense of greater green spaces, which is bad for stress levels and mental health, they come with more noise pollution, which is not good for your health either, they come with an increased concentration of people, which oftentimes correlates with air pollution, which isn't good for your health either.
So, all of those are more reasons why I think that, also air pollution is bad for the environment too, which is also not as good.
It's easier to create greener grids, and things like that, when you're dealing with smaller cities, or rural spaces, where these things aren't as likely to be a problem.
So, for all of those reasons, we should prohibit tower blocks.