We should not adopt teacher tenure reform because it would be really bad for teachers, for public education as a whole.
So first why would it be bad for public education as a whole?
Right now and it doesn't look like it's something that's going to change anytime soon because that's rather widespread and systematic, teachers are drastically underpaid, given the qualifications that they have to hold.
If you want to be a teacher you have to have a college degree, oftentimes if you want to be a teacher at like something other than like a preschool class or a kindergarten class, a lot of places want higher degrees as well.
So if you want to be a high school chemistry teacher you probably need to have more specialized training on top of that.
All these things cost money.
All of these things mean that teachers have a lot of debt.
It means that teachers are very qualified and usually they take jobs out of the goodness of their heart or because they think these jobs are important and it's something that they want to do.
But that said, financial financial costs are very real costs and one of the biggest things is that if you're not going to be able to give teachers a whole lot of money, you can at least give them job security.
Because job security is very important to people.
Job security and stability means that you can plan your life because you know you're going to have your paycheck.
You know that you're not going to worry about getting fired like every every time you're up for a performance evaluation.
Because for oftentimes reasons outside of your control, your students aren't able to perform as well as like the state wants them to perform, so you're not going to get screwed over because of that.
There's a whole lot of great things that come with job security, and it makes people more willing to get involved in a profession in the first place.
And since there's like a real problem trying to attract teachers, I think that it's really important to make sure that job security is something that they keep.
Otherwise who's going to want to be a teacher?
If you could just get fired constantly, if you have to pay a ton of money to be qualified to do it in the first place, and it doesn't really pay all that well.
It's just not going to work.
It'd be horrible it'd be catastrophic to public education.
But I also think that the status quo is just fine for teachers.
Because there's a whole lot of like like like republicans like to make a big deal: " oh well teachers, once they get tenure they can do whatever they want.
If you just not teach, and then like they won't be able to get fired. "
And things like that, but that's really not actually the way that it works.
Because if you all you need is cause to fire somebody.
And cause to fire somebody isn't all that hard to get.
If you want to fire someone you can find out how to fire somebody.
And what cause looks like is: if a teachers is just not doing their job, if the students are just like goofing off in class everyday, if a teacher just puts on videos all the time, and nothing is actually really happening in class, then obviously that's cause to fire a teacher and that's something that you can regulate.
But I think that by and large a lot of these cases are isolated, and they're used as examples to like wedge away like power from teachers.
And that's a great problem.
Because I think that another thing that teachers get a bad rep for are like the existence of their unions, things like teacher strikes and the like.
And job security and your ability to have tenure and not get fired arbitrarily is also important to accessing a lot of those other rights.
Things like feeling comfortable going on strike but not getting fired, or things like that.
So for all those reasons we should not adopt teacher tenure reform.