We should introduce a pollution tax for some basic reasons.
Pollution is bad, it's bad for the environment, and pollution costs a lot of money to fix in terms of the cost and it also cause a lot of external damages and a pollution tax is a good way to fix all of those problems, kill two birds with one stone.
So let's start by talking about why just on a basic level pollution is bad, and you don't even have to get necessarily into climate change to discuss the reasons why pollution is bad because pollution has much more direct health effects.
When you go to places that have high degrees of smog a lot of like factories that pollute the air, you see all kinds of really direct health impacts on people.
Whether it's higher rates of lung cancer especially amongst like like especially if you're like a younger person living in this environment you could also have other kinds of illnesses the food you eat because you can have chemical run off you can have acid rain things that go into your water supply things that go into the food supply which can also cause harms to people in different ways.
There is really direct human health harms that are associated with pollution.
So the fact that pollution is bad on its face should be obvious, but that's all amplified by pollution's impact on climate change and its broader impact on global warming because while pollution kills off local wildlife and while pollution increases oftentimes CO two emissions and other kind of greenhouse gases being emitted into the atmosphere, it results in an ever warming globe which results in things like flooding, more extreme weather events, more extreme heat waves food shortages because of crop destructions and basic livability being in question.
So obviously pollution is bad for all those reasons, and unfortunately these problems cost a whole lot of money to fix because we've been spending decades and decades digging the hole ever deeper.
So whether it's trying to make factory pollution a lot more manageable, whether it's trying to like make our food supplies better off, or combating climate change emissions, these things are all going to cost large amounts of research and investment and ultimately proactive solution making.
And having a tax can increase the costs of I can increase revenue reason for this and at the very least it can also help us deal with the cost of this whether there is the inevitable natural disaster from climate change or health related difficulties that come with breathing in toxic air then having more money in public pockets to fund these kinds of things is incredibly helpful.
And finally it also makes sure that there's less of a and incentive to pollute because right now companies don't have a disincentive to pollute because while pollution is bad for society pollution isn't bad for an individual company.
Companies don't care if your if your air is harder to breathe or if the food that you eat is more likely to be toxic or if somewhere far away is going to see more flooding because of your CO two emissions.
Capitalism isn't designed for companies to internalize these kinds of harms.
That's why you need a central regulator to levy taxes on them in order to insure that these external costs are factored into the actual price of a pollution.
So for all those reasons you should introduce a pollution tax.