We should ban naturopathy because it is dangerous and because it results in doctor so called doctors abusing the trust that people put in them and giving them things that are incredibly harmful.
So let's start by talking about what the justification for this ban is in the first place and I think this is pretty straightforward.
Just to start, governments generally should be able to ban things if they're incredibly dangerous things.
We ban a whole lot of things that are incredibly dangerous.
We ban you can't have like machine guns.
You can't have like bombs.
You can't have heroin for the most part.
You can't have a whole lot of things that are dangerous because you shouldn't be able to use them.
We also regulate in the same way not just the ability of people to like consumer use dangerous things, but we also consume the sale of these dangerous things as well so you're not allowed to put like arsenic in some kind of like some kind of trendy new food like all natural food that uses arsenic instead of like high fructose corn syrup or whatever non-GMO or something like that.
Like you can't you're not allowed to put like these kinds like dangerous substances into foods or medicines or things that are supposed to be marketed to people as such.
So given this basis of a justification let's just talk why does naturopathy fulfill this very clear justification.
This bar that you need to meet for banning something and it's very straightforward.
It meets it in two ways.
It first meets it because it doesn't actually solve the problems or purports to solve as medicine so in a lot of ways besides being dangerous, it's also false advertising.
But you go to a doctor because you're sick, maybe you have the flu and you want to have the you wanna have the flu go away because you can't go to work, you you don't want to get other people sick, whole lots of problems here.
So you go to the doctor and you get prescribed something or you get told what you can do to help the situation blah blah blah, and if the doctor gives you something that doesn't solve the problem at all, then that's obviously horrible.
The doctor took your money and ran off with it and your problem wasn't fixed.
And that's really bad because rather than just having your money taken from you, you're also in a situation where your literal health problem isn't being solved.
So obviously that's really bad.
Beyond that there's also the problems of of you can even see these medicines so called medicine sometimes create additional problems.
So whether it's putting actively harmful ingredients into something or various kinds of treatments that aren't really medically advisable at all that can actually make things worse you could be actively making people more unsafe by giving them dangerous things with this kind of treatment.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is the trust that people put into doctors and how this breaks that trust because I think that people have a unique trust in doctors.
Obviously medicine is an incredibly tactical and specialized knowledge.
There's a reason you have to go to school for like basically like a decade in order to become a doctor.
Between medical school and trainings after medical school and all these kinds of things.
It's very difficult become a doctor because there's a high level of knowledge and the conventional medicines that we prescribe, modern medicines, go under a heavy heavy scrutiny.
They have to be tested in a myriad of ways.
They're peer reviewed.
They're reviewed across all kinds of different people, all different levels of trials, all different kinds of levels of scientific study unlike this nonsense like that is being propagated as so called medicine by like sham doctors.
They are essentially abusing the trust and being able to even call themselves doctors is definitely it's misleading to what people are actually getting.
So for all those reasons, we should ban naturopathy.