We should abolish primary elections because primary elections are incredibly anti-democratic and lead to worse outcomes for the people themselves.
So why are primary elections anti-democratic?
I think that the main reasons for this are obvious.
It allows the elites essentially in the party to exert a whole lot more control over who is actually going to be getting their nomination.
And this is something that's incredibly important because when you're talking about like the realities of our political system the people who win party nominations are the people who are running for the highest positions in office or whatever that office is.
And that's just the way that it is.
So in reality the pool of people who are eligible for public office are the pool of people who are able to win primaries.
So if the only people that can win primaries are the people that party elites want to win, then that means that the only people who are able to win actual public offices are by proxy like the people who party elites want to win.
So this presents a really big problem because primary elections are incredibly important, that's now established.
So if they are actually corrupt then you have a really big democratic problem on your hands and they are oftentimes incredibly corrupt.
Primary elections can be primarily driven by endorsements from other party officials from your ability to fundraise from there is oftentimes like archaic delegate systems that can give party officials more influence if like the delegates can have more power the the party can give like favorable coverage or can get favorable programming or favorable spotlight or all kinds of like soft factors to preferred candidates.
All of these things function to allow primary candidates to like get better offices.
But on a secondary level, primary elections are necessarily lower turnout because people are busy, people have lives to live, people can't usually just take off work go vote at their primary election, they often can't do it for a regular election.
They certainly don't usually have the ability to do it for primary elections.
They oftentimes instead of happening at set dates they could happen at random times, they're not always very well publicized so primaries are rather low turnout events oftentimes so the people who are able to turn up for it are usually more radical people, usually more elite people or usually or people like that.
And oftentimes that's a a really big problem because that means that you're getting an incredibly unrepresentative pool of people whether it's like elites from the party itself or amongst the population not a very representative sample you're not really getting representative candidates winning their primaries and that's a big problem because that means that like I said before and then you're going to have politicians who are actually all that representitive.
So in a in an actual good democracy, the way it should look like is you run for the office and if you're able to get enough support or and you would win that then you would win that office, and you don't have to jump through all these hoops in order to essentially suppress like popular will.
So for all those reasons, we should abolish primaries.