We should encourage self-employment because it will empower people to have a better quality of life and it also empowers people in the workplace as far as their business and financial dealings are concerned.
So let's start by talking about why self-employment will probably lead to better quality of life for a lot of people.
And I think that one of the biggest things that people would be able to pride themselves on is having their own control over everything from their hours, having control over the kind of work they do, having control over how they do their work.
These are all things that make you feel better because when you do work you feel like you're doing it for yourself, you feel like you're profiting for yourself and you can take a great deal more pride in the work you're doing.
You don't have to like listen to a boss, do things that you don't want to do in the same way, and I think that that's something that most people would enjoy and would lead to a better quality of life for a lot of people.
So encouraging that will only lead to people encouraging people to make decisions that will probably lead to more happiness for them.
But additionally, self-employment can also be empowering in that it can power you in like more explicit economic and financial ways.
In a lot of ways working for like a boss or a company or employer necessarily means you're going to lose out on some of the earnings that you could be making because your your boss would only hire you if they're making money off of you.
Like the value of your labor is always going to be more than what you actually get paid from that because your boss needs to make money off of you and you're not going to get hired if the work that you're going to do is less valuable than what the boss is going to make off of that.
This and that's incredibly important like like for example if you're like working in like a store or something like that, the amount of product maybe that you can sell is going to make the boss more money than what you're going to be compensated because if it didn't work that way than like the business couldn't operate.
So that's like a really important principle because it means that like when you're working for somebody else besides yourself, you're almost like inherently going to be getting less money than what your value is and I think that's like a really sad thing in a lot of ways and that we should encourage people to get away from that by encouraging self-employment.
Because when you do that, you're making all of the money that all of the money that you make it your own.
You have more control over your revenue stream and that's important and it also gives you greater economic empowerment.
When you're self-employed you don't have to have the possible anxieties or insecurities about like following company policies, about like worrying about getting fired or all these kinds of things that can restrict your like your economic well being in a lot of ways.
So for all those reasons, we should encourage