We should not fight for palestinian independence because palestinian independence would necessarily come at the expense of israeli security and israelis viability is a state and it would also require unseemly and unnecessary sacrifices on the part of israel.
So let's start by grounding this a little bit and talking about why in general israel is clearly in the right in the palestinian israeli conflict and therefore it shouldn't really make any concessions that are unnecessary in terms of its security or in terms of concessions like say giving up east jerusalem, the right of return or etcetera etcetera.
So why is this?
So the biggest reason is that palestinians have had numerous opportunities to come to the negotiating table and have peace with israelis.
And this has been the case throughout many many decades, where you start from the very first when the UN proclamation that created the separations of palestine in israel.
Palestine had way more land than israel did, to the point where israel wasn't even a continuous state.
It had to separate parts.
And then that wasn't good enough for palestine and like eight other arab countries, so they decided to invade israel.
And lo and behold, israel wins that war, and then you fast forward over the next forty years or so and though every decade or so, whether it's on a jewish holiday in yom kippur or in like the middle of june, arab countries in palestinian allies decide to invade israel every once in a while and they kept losing.
And it's pretty much their their fault that they're in the situation that they're in right now.
They kept trying to take more more land from israel.
Throughout most of the history of the conflict palestinian leaders weren't even willing to accept israel's right to exist as a state.
It wasn't until the oslo accords in like the nineties when yasser arafat gave up that concession, the concession of israel literal existence.
So realistically our sympathy should be limited.
So now let's talk about why israel's israeli sacrifices.
So fighting for a palestinian independence would be really bad for advancing israeli causes, which is bad because they're in the right.
So why is this?
So first it would be a security hazard for israel.
The biggest reason and the obvious reason is that this would just give hamas the ability to basically do whatever the hell it wanted in the gaza strip.
Like if palestine is its own state, you are not gonna have a blockade on it, that would be like an act of war, so unless you're gonna perpetually be at war with the newly independent state, which seem like a pointless and stupid idea and like like against the purposes of giving them statehood in the first place, then like you have to do all tons of stuff like lifting blockades, lifting restrictions etcetera etcetera etcetera.
So you're probably not gonna be very good for israeli security.
Like if you think like iran and turkey and saudi arabia and whoever trying to like ship weapons into like various palestinian terrorist organizations now, well just wait till what happens when israel has a nonexistent security presence in those parts.
So like there's probably not gonna be all that much there and that's gonna be really bad.
But it's further bad because it legitimizes that acts of terrorism, literally the murder of civilians is a legitimate way to extract concessions from a state, which is ridiculous.
Like they would be like saying that like nine eleven when it happened to america is like legitimate grounds for america start giving concessions to like al qaida or the taliban or whatever.
It's just like it's absolutely ridiculous.
But the final thing is that it would be unfair concessions on the part of israel and what they would have to give up.
Palestinians are asking for too much.
They're demanding like a right of return, they are demanding east jerusalem, they're demanding millions of settlements beat dismantled, most if not all of which are pretty much unreasonable.
So for all those reasons don't fight for palestinian independence.