We should have recall elections, because they're incredibly important for ensuring accountability of our politicians.
And I think, the first reason, why they're important for ensuring accountability, is because it makes sure that politicians can't just lie and get away with it.
Politicians tend to promise a lot of things on the campaign trail, they promise that they'll fix your problems, that they'll get rid of your enemies, and all these kinds of things.
Most of the time, they don't actually do that.
And, while we expect that politicians can't possibly do everything that they ask, sometimes politicians can do the opposite of what they say, or they can just directly violate and break their promises, which is very obviously bad, because people vote politicians into office under the expectation, that they're going to do the things, like that they vote for them to do.
So, if politicians don't do that, if they change on some issues, then people should have the right to reevaluate if they still want this politician to be in a position of power.
And, without the ability for people to actually check politicians this way, there's no reason why they can't just say one thing on the campaign trail, and then completely change their mind.
But, the second way, in which I think that this ensures accountability, is because otherwise accountability is going to be, as far as like impeachment, or condemnation, or censoring, or silencing, or whatever, that's going to fall on people's peers, the politicians peers, rather than on the people itself, and that's a big problem.
So, for example, when you look at like impeachment trials in america, they are like one of the most partisan things ever.
Donald trump possibly deserves to get impeached over the, like, russia thing, but it's probably not going to happen, unless he did something super super egregious, because there's partisanship at place, it looks bad for the party, if the if a member of that party in a position of power gets kicked out of office.
However, the people don't have the same kind of loyalty to the individual.
They may have loyalties to the party as a whole, but they don't have the same kind of account loyalty to the single individuals, in the same way that their peers do, or possibly dependent on these people for support , or have to work with them, or things like that.
So, by introducing recall elections, you take the power away from their peers, and you give it back to the people, which, besides just being the more democratic option, is much much better, as far as actually enforcing good practices as well.
But, the final thing that I want to talk about is recall the debate shouldn't be about what the benefits of recall election are, really the debate should be about it should be about what grounds, under which shouldn't we have recall elections, rather than should, because I think that recall elections are a right that we have, and the presumption should be in favor of that.
And, I think that this is because people in positions of power, in a democratic society, do not have any kind of right to that position.
They have that authority, purely based on the fact that people think that they are worthy of representing their opinions, because people cannot like people have lives to live, they can't just like vote on everything, and be involved in politics on a full time basis.
So, people give, in a very profound way, control over their lives over to these politicians and these politicians have a lot of power.
People should be able to take away that power, within reason, whenever they want.
And, for all those reasons, I am very proud to say that we should introduce recall elections.