We should have more wind turbines because wind turbines are a good source of energy and it's good for the environment which is really important.
So for starters let's talk about why we need to rely more on green technologies.
I think this is fairly obvious but the status quo of what we're doing for energy consumption just simply isn't sustainable besides the fact that non renewable energy won't last forever based on the fact that it's just non renewable eventually oil coal natural gas it's going to run out and we're not going have it anymore but it's also going to be out of necessity because climate change is already really bad but if we keep doing what we're doing and we don't start changing our behaviors it's really we're going to be passed the point of no return where we won't be able to grow most foods that we grow natural disasters are going to become much more common cities on the coast are going to flood there's all kinds of like horrible consequences that are going to be associated with this.
So obviously we need to make the change to green technology sooner rather than later so given that why is wind a good way to do that.
The first reason is that a lot of wind technology is already developed and already extant wind turbines are already fairly common in many parts of the world and they certainly exist in america too to some extent so we don't have to create like entirely new forms of energy by and large.
Moreover they're also comparatively cheap to a lot of other kinds of energy.
Whether like you wanted to build a nuclear reactor or build like a hydroelectric dam or something like that oftentimes those projects tend to be more intensive more expensive and they can carry various kinds of risks as well.
While wind turbines are like pretty cheap they're basically just like large metal rods with like fans on the end of them they're not particularly complicated and they're pretty easy to make.
So they're pretty cheap and they work so that's really good.
But I also think that further exploitation is only going to make their use even better because there's going to be economies of scale that are going to insure that the more we use it the cheaper it'll be and beyond that the more we focus on it the more innovation there likely will be as competitors try to corner the market for production of wind turbines and I think there probably will be a lot of demand for this there's like a lot of places where it's pretty windy it's pretty windy in many parts of the world you look at places like america even if wind turbines take up space like some parts of america have nothing but space so you can definitely have wind turbine farms somewhere so for all those reasons we should invest more wind turbines.