We should exploit solar energy because solar energy is the best form of green technology for the future and to combat climate change and get off of our dependency on fossil fuels.
So let's start by talking about why it's necessary to have a transition because even if you don't really believe climate change arguments which you should there's the fundamental arguments that there exist alternatives that in the long run can be cheaper and in the long run will be necessary.
Fossil fuels won't last forever.
A lot of places that we used to drill for oil are already out so you have to go to new alternatives like instead of just drilling for oil in texas you drill for oil in the gulf of mexico or you do fracking in like north dakota and eventually that's going to run out too and eventually you're going to need to come up with other alternatives.
So that's what green technology can exist as an alternative for.
But it can also exist as a cheaper alternative, it can exist as an alternative that doesn't rely on a need for mining or transportation and refining and all those things that add the cost because you can simply have a panel on your ceiling on your roof and that can make things easier and obviously it's going to be necessary for climate change too.
Whether its problems with like flooding from and rising sea levels or natural disasters the fact like a lot of food can't grow if it gets too hot or it gets too cold and weather becomes more irregular with climate change happening so like for example it's probably going to be seventy degrees in boston next week and it's february which is going to set a possibly a new record high which we set last year as a record high so it'll be the second year in a row where the new record high is getting set.
Like all of these things creat like an obvious sense of urgency in which like we definitely need to further exploit solar energy as a means of getting off greenhouse greenhouse gases which contribute to the problem of climate change.
So now that that's been established, why is solar energy the best?
And I think that there's several reasons.
The first of which is a possibility of wide use and applicability.
You can have solar energy just about anywhere.
You could put it on the roof of your car, you can put it on the roof your house, you can have solar panels on the streetsor on sidewalks or parking lots.
You can put solar panels pretty much anywhere which makes their use uniquely beneficial it's not like a hydroelectric dam where it can only be in certain places not like a windmill where you can't have a windmill like right on top your house to give you energy so it's a lot more versatile and also it can be a lot more useful because there's some light anywhere there's sunlight everywhere I don't need to deal with that argument about how like oh well someplace is cloudy more so obviously like ultraviolet rays and energy goes through clouds.
If you think that clouds mean that solar energy doesn't work you're being ridiculous because like energy energy is the sunlight from is essential for life and it exists literally everywhere in the world and it could happen to anywhere in the world.
So there's solar energy anywhere and it's versatile but also in the long term it could be cheaper and more efficient as well with economies of scale that comes with further investment so this further exploitation that I'm advocating for is only going to make it cheaper and more viable because there's going to be more dedicated resources to it and more people are going to use it and we're going to keep getting better and better technologies in the field.
So for all those reasons we should further exploit solar energy.