We should ban tattoos.
Now tattoos may seem like this harmful thing, sometimes cool way that people express themselves, maybe even a part of their culture but all of those things are just false that's all just false.
It's lies.
Tattoos are a menace and they need to be regulated because they are completely in violation of basic norms and decency and they certainly go against they certainly are a violation of public norms that we need to regulate most notably in terms of like religious consequences.
So let's start by talking about what's wrong with tattoos.
So I think it goes without saying that you have to ask the question why are human bodies the way in which they are?
Why don't human bodies look in some other kind of different way?
And there's a lot of scientific theories going around but I think that we can all agree that the most reasonable interpretation of why humans exist the way that they are is because that's the way in which god created us and that that and since god created us in such a way when you get a tattoo you're essentially altering altering the body that god gave you.
Essentially god gave you a gift with your life saying that like hey, this is your body and you should love it because you're beautiful and I made you this way because this is the way in which I think that you should be.
And by getting tattoos or physical body modifications you're essentially saying, no god, I think that my body should look this way.
And that's obviously very, very bad for a lot of reasons like first, because god's perfect and knows everything so god knows how your body should be, but second, you're also like defying god's will so that's another thing that's very bad so a lot of these are like very much grounded in like basic philosophy in a lot of cultures.
So like you look at judaism you can't be buried in a jewish cemetery if you get tattoos.
You probably can't get buried officially if you have ear piercings either or maybe that's changed who knows.
But be that as it may, tattoos, very bad, you're not supposed to be able to get those if you're jewish.
Why is that?
Well because god agrees with all the things that I've been talking about for the past two minutes and that it's a essentially a defilement of god's image.
So now that all of that has been mentioned, why is this important?
What is the link between god thinking that something is bad and government action and like a necessity of government regulation of some kind of thing?
Well it goes without saying that when god thinks that you're doing something wrong this isn't just some vague abstract bad that is only going to result in a punishment to you.
The punishment goes beyond your individual consequences so you're not just going to go to hell or fade away into nothingness if you sin or if you defile your body in a way in which is unbecoming to god.
What is going to happen is god is going to punish you.
And oftentimes when god punishes you, god punishes the people around you.
And when god punishes the people around you that's like a third party harm that you have to make sure that you're like regulating against.
So like, for example, when like god wanted to punish the sinners of like sodom and gomorrah god like sent in like the nice biblical flood that got rid of all of humanity except for noah and noah's ark.
So this is like very interesting because it's like reasonable to assume that like not literally every single person in sodom and gomorrah was a sinner.
Like I'm sure a good deal of them were and that like you had you had god had just had to purge like a good portion of them but but be that as it may, not everyone was necessarily bad place.
But the rest of them probably all got unfairly punished except for noah.
So for all those reasons it's very, very urgent that we ban tattoos.
They clearly do a whole lot of harm to society presumably donald trump was elected president because too many people have tattoos in america.
So for all those reasons ban them.