We should limit freedom of speech because sometimes speech can be used in ways that is incredibly harmful.
Can be used in ways that oppresses people and hurts people.
So let's start by talking about how exactly we should limit speech and the answer to this is that sometimes it can be complicated because broadly speech is a good thing.
You want to be able to express opposition to certain things especially on political issues or issues about like your beliefs, your identity and things like that.
But there's obviously a point in which certain things can go too far and when freedom of speech can ultimately become freedom to bully people, freedom to violate people, and try to oppress people.
So what does this look like?
Like a clear example is the charlottesville white supremacist nazi protest that took place there just this past year, where somebody literally ended up getting killed, I think pretty well encapsulates some of the problems that we see here.
Because by and large, certain people when they use racist language or also if on similar lines misogynism or a clear transphobia language, can result in real harms to people in a couple ways.
So first and foremost, oftentimes the language itself is designed to bully people to oppress people and exclude people and this is because language has an incredible deal of power in our society.
It's the primary way in which we communicate obviously, but it's also by and large a lot of ways in which it can influence our identity like if people tell you that you're like stupid or if people tell you that you're unwelcome or that you're lesser because of the place that you were born or because of your sexual identity like.
These kinds of things can like really be hurtful to people, people's self-worth and a lot of different things.
So when you hear stories about like queer people who commit suicide because of like incessant bullying or things like that, by and large a lot of it can revolve around like speech issues.
But additionally the second element is the actual violence oftentimes that can get incited or perpetrated because of this and this goes back to the charlottesville white supremacist rally example where somebody did end up dying because of this because the violence that is because the language the speech that is being advocated for is essentially the oppression, the destruction of other people sometimes.
So if the speech is even if it's political speech, if it's directed to be violent, if it's directed to hurt people then inevitably you can't be surprised when people take those words and ultimately take them take action upon those and that creates a lot of harm.
But besides like these more like social problems that can result from unlimited free of speech, I think there's also more hard legal consequences that we look at as well.
So like right now the US supreme court is considering a case called like masterpiece cake shop, I believe in colorado, where a gay couple wanted to have like a cake made for their wedding and the cake shop refused.
They said " no you're gay so like fuck off you're not going to get your cake " which most people who like have a conscience would see as a violation of like civil rights law much in the same way that you can't just exclude black people from an establishment because after like segregation things like that ended.
But the arguments that are being advanced that manage to make it all the way to the supreme court is that it's compelled speech that you're like you're like essentially forcing people to accept people's sexual identity and that's like a compelled political idea so you shouldn't be able to compel people to do that because like the cake is like a work of art or whatever and like these kinds of things like the way in which we look at speech in a legal sense has like a real impact on people's lives.
So I think it's very important that we do have limits on speech sometimes.
So for all those reasons, proud to propose.