We should legalize gay marriage because same sex marriage is simply a human right and it's a basic aspect of empathy and love that we should extend to all people.
So I want to start by talking about what society looks like when we keep same sex marriage illegal because what you're essentially doing is you're telling people because of whomever they love that they are lesser than other people.
You're telling them that they can't have the same rights, the same privileges, even the same names as other people simply because instead of loving a man if you're a woman you love another woman and I think that that's something that's pretty messed up because there's nothing more deep and intimate and personal than the people that you love and how that like effects your life.
And I think that as like societies that like to talk about like freedom of freedom of like freedom from government oppression, the freedom to make your own choices about how you want to live your life, the freedom to decide what is the best way to live your own life, the most fundamental aspect of that is being able to love whomever you want to love and not being treated any differently because of that.
And that is the core of marriage equality and that is why it's something that's so important.
It's not just the fact that it's a legal right because it is a legal right and it's something that we should respect, it's a matter of basic human dignity and basic human equality that we need to make sure that we're extending to other people.
And I think that this is especially true because when you think about it the love that is experienced between a same sex couple isn't any different, isn't any less powerful than any given affection between a heterosexual couple.
And that's important because when you're willing to give one the ability to legally marry but you're not willing to give the other the ability to legally marry, then you are legally designating people who are gay or bi or whatever as an other.
You're legally designating them as people who are for the purposes of the law different enough that we shouldn't accept them and welcome them into our society.
And I think that that's something that is incredibly messed up.
But I think that additionally, the message that this also sends is that it encourages people to discriminate against gay people members of the LGBTQ community in much more insidious ways.
Because when you're not willing to accept them as people who can love the same way as we can, people who get married the same way as we can, it's a whole lot easier to accept not giving them other rights.
It's a whole lot easier to not accept to it's a whole lot easier to accept allowing businesses to discriminate against them.
It's a whole lot which is allowed in a lot of states it's a whole lot easier to rationalize not expending not expanding anti hate crime legislation to them hate crimes legislation to people who are gay, which is also the case in a lot of states.
It's not it's it also further serves to rationalize, say, allowing you to be kicked out to be fired from your job because of your sexuality, something that is also legal in a whole lot of states in america.
All of these things become more reasonable and more prominent society when a society establish its norms around the idea that people who love people of the same sex are different.
And I think that that is an incredibly horrible thing to do.
So for all of those reasons we should legalize same sex marriage.