We should cancel the national flood insurance program because the national flood insurance program is basically repeated corporate basically repeated handouts for rich people's properties.
It's completely unnecessary.
So let's start by talking about who's taking advantage of national flood insurance programs.
Places that are more prone to flooding are oftentimes pretty well-off communities.
Places that are prone to flooding prone to flooding are beachfront properties, islands, places by like the water generally.
They it makes sense if you're more prone to flooding the closer you live near the water and oftentimes like these kinds of flooding is associated with something like a hurricane or a tsunami or some kind of other event like that.
So we're already generally talking when we're talking about flooding we're we're often talking about high value high priced areas.
So when you ensure these areas you're already talking about people who are generally going to be better off than others.
And moreover especially when you talk about like the most unique flood prone areas so places like beachfront properties in places that do tend to be prone to hurricanes.
So places in like florida for example or in texas or louisiana places where you see like the property values are highest are directly on the water so there's a lot of problems there.
You see places the similar in places like maybe like south beach in miami or something.
So this creates a lot of problems because the people who are most capable of dealing with like natural disasters and replacing property are going to be like rich people basically.
If like like a millionaire's house in like south beach gets flooded, they're already the most capable of dealing with that kind of a consequence compared to like a much like poorer person somewhere else and all of the money, all of the like hundreds of millions hundreds of millions maybe even billions of dollars in aid that comes as a result of a natural disaster in terms of like flood damage, all of that money could be going toward basically anything else.
Like it could be going towards anything else.
It could be going towards green technology to help prevent climate change.
It could be going towards just like directly giving homeless people houses.
Like there there's like like endless there's as many like millions of better things you can do with that money as like the billions of dollars that you're spending anyway on it.
But beyond that, it also incentivizes totally irresponsible building because a lot of these places are like repeat offenders.
Every couple of years there is another like several million dollars in damage because of the flooding because like newsflash, hurricanes are like once in a lifetime things.
You have places in florida that can get hit or in texas or louisiana they get hit by hurricanes pretty frequently.
There's other kinds of like non-hurricane storms that cause flooding pretty frequently.
Places that are by the water are just like going to be susceptible to flooding.
So you're also you're not just talking about like like oftentimes wealthy properties, we're talking about properties that tend to like the same thing happens to it over and over again.
It keeps flooding and flooding and flooding and when you just like give people handouts and you like there's no incentive to fix the problem.
It's like it's like it was like the it's the same as the argument against like the bailouts or whatever in that for like banks in that if there's no like risk that's associated with an activity, then people are just going to keep doing it and if there's no harm of building on the beach, if there's no actual harm to you for like doing like problematic building and landscaping and things like that, then you're not going to fix the problem.
So this is basically just like a pit of money.
You keep giving the money to like like these properties over and over again because it keeps flooding and people keep building it because there's like no reason not to.
The government is just going to keep bailing you out over and over again.
Clearly we need different mindset here.
So for all those reasons, cancel the national flood insurance program.