We should not end censorship because ending censorship is bad because there are some things that should be censored.
So let's start by talking about some of these cases.
Some of them are really obvious.
There's things like classified information or information that could be detrimental to national security that you want to make sure that you have an ability to censor, because it could mean that national security could be at risk, lives of soldiers or spies or other people could be at risk.
Moreover there's also things like libel or slander that obviously you should be able to censor if if needed.
Things that can like really like hurt people's lives, you can do damage to people in such a way in which there's no real legitimate base of the speech because you're hurting another person.
It's not the same as just like a form of expression.
You're trying to hurt another person.
And it's for similar reasons that things like incitement can be censored.
If you're trying to like incite and overthrow the government, inciting violence against some kind of official maybe, or like an individual person.
Obviously that's just another situation in which censorship can exist as well.
And finally there's things like hate speech, where there's legitimate reasons for censorship there as well.
When you're trying to make people feel unsafe, when you're trying to make people feel unwelcome, when your when you're a political when your like speech, when your expression can come at the expense of other people by making them feel unsafe in in expressing themselves and speaking out, then you make it so that really you in a lot of ways forfeit your right to speech.
So those are just some examples of circumstances under which a censorship can be acceptable.
So obviously censorship shouldn't like always be the case, you don't want to censor everything, but ending censorship will necessarily entail losing out on things that maybe you should censor.
Selective things that should be censored like all of these things and possibly others as well.
But beyond that I also think that we can reasonably trust government actors to be responsible in how they actually conduct themselves when they're deciding what to censor and what not to censor.
When you're talking about like democratic societies for example there's a lot of powerful institutions that are in place that exists as checks.
So whether it's like the internet or third parties, the media, or things like that, a lot of stuff gets out anyway.
So if you're trying to censor things that are like really major events or trying to censor like political opposition or things like that you're probably not gonna be able to do that.
Like large scale censorship of the likes of which you see in places like china and north korea are simply not feasible, simply not likely to happen.
So I think that it's very unlikely that you're gonna be able to see it get abused all that much.
And furthermore there is also a very like powerful norms of freedom of speech in a lot of countries.
So like for example you go to places like germany where the holocaust denial is something that you can be put in jail for.
That's obviously a form of censorship but at the same time we don't see like the german state just saying like oh well we're also going to censor you if you say that like you think that we should have a different kind of economic policy rather than what like as opposed to what angela merkel thinks.
And the reason for that is because like there's like like reasonably strong institutions in place that prioritize freedom of speech.
That it's like in a lot of cases a really important thing.
So we're going to protect it many circumstances, just not all circumstances.
And the people can help with accountability in that in a democratic society.
So for all those reasons we should not end censorship.