We should abolish trade barriers because trade barriers have a whole lot of harms and the abolition of trade barriers specifically has a lot of very explicit benefits.
So let's start by talking about why trade barriers are bad and some of the bad things that they do.
When you're talking about things like terrorists or quotas or other kinds of policies that restrict who you can do business with and how you can do business with you these with people, it often results in a lot of bad harms.
The on the more extreme end you can see things like trade wars which is something that we see in escalation in occurrence right now because of donald trump's presidency where you see america wants to do something like raise prices on steel or other kinds of products and you see that the targeted countries like china or europe or whoever feel the need to retaliate in a kind of like a quid pro quo way in that if you're going to see one party raise tariffs are taxes on a good to imported or exported, you're going to see a reciprocal tariff or some other kind of action by the targeted country.
So what that does is it ends up hurting everybody because everyone is just going to be less likely to trade with each other.
Goods get more expensive and you're not really going to get indiscernible benefit because you're just going to get more expensive products and not actually help local economies all that much.
And moreover, even on the less extreme end it still is bad because it can just cause inherent economic inefficiencies when you have tariffs and trades trade barriers in place because it makes it more difficult to do business with people who can offer the best prices, who can maybe offer the best quality products, or other kinds of things like that.
So no matter what, trade barriers are almost always going to be very very bad.
But on the flip side, when you talk about the benefits of abolition of trade barriers they're quite numerous.
Obviously abolishing trade barriers means goods are going to be cheaper.
You're going to be able to get goods from cheaper markets as far as like imports are concerned and you're going to be able to purchase goods without like extra taxes and things like.
So that's really good because that means that if a good gets cheaper more people in the market are going to be able to access it.
So maybe people are going to be able to afford stuff they weren't able to afford before.
If the good is a rather important good like maybe it's something like a car or something like that, that can be incredibly meaningful to a whole lot of people.
But moreover, it also causes broad economic growth because when more people are able to buy goods, more people are able to consume goods, that can also fuel economic growth.
But besides just like the consumption and the importation end, getting rid of trade barriers can often also help sell a good.
So if you're exporting some kind of a product so for example like a country like america is like a really large exporter of corn and other kinds of agricultural products you can see the like it's really beneficial to have more lax trade policies because it allows you to export goods to other countries at more premium rates.
So you can be more competitive in other markets so that can also really help economies grow.
So for all those reasons, abolishing trade barriers is a very good idea.