We should limit the right of self defense because people are incredibly bad actually evaluating real danger and making good decisions that are good for preventing death and injury and this reality gets in the way of ultimate in acting your ideals of justice as a just society making sure that due process is followed and all these kinds of things.
So let's start by talking about why you need to limit the right to self defense because in the status quo in a lot of places self defense is given an incredibly wide degree of latitude.
It's very easy to claim self defense to get out of a lot of crimes especially throughout america and especially throughout the american south and I think that that's very important because people aren't very good at actually evaluating threats and there's a lot of reasons for this.
First and foremost of those is racism.
A lot of people because people grow up in a society where you're constantly being told that like muslims are terrorists, that black people present threats to you and things like that, that you're more likely to impose threats on to other people even if they don't exist and examples of this are really obvious especially in america where you see police killing unarmed black people on a regular basis and these are trained professionals, these are police officers.
Now imagine the average individual who doesn't even have police training and isn't even trained at isn't even supposed to be trained in de-escalating situations or being better able to actually identify the degree of a threat level.
So I think that most people are going to assume that the threat may be higher.
I think that secondarily oftentimes people are going to be very fearful and uniquely illogical in a situation where self defense may be necessary because if you think that there may be a danger to you or somebody else around you you're going to be very likely to act quickly without thinking especially if you have a weapon on you or something like that and I think that's very bad because it can lead to a rash decision making.
Rash decision making that could lead to you injuring somebody who didn't deserve to be injured, leading to you injuring yourself because you escalated the situation.
Maybe it was a robbery and obviously robberies are bad but a robbery is worse if the person robbing you ends up shooting you because you try to fight back or things like that.
There's all kinds of reasons why I think that like limiting the right of self defense will make it so that maybe people are going to be more likely to instead of trying to fight maybe the emphasis can be on calling for help or fleeing or a duty to de-escalate.
But additionally I think that the inexperience and lack of qualification is uniquely important because in addition to just like the racism point, you're talking about people who could come from like a wide range of backgrounds and qualification and things like that and most people don't have any kind of training in de-escalation, don't have any kind of training in actually understanding conflicts and threat levels.
So all of that is very important because it prevents the ideals of justice in a just society from being enacted and the reason for that is because in a just society you're innocent until proven guilty and if in the act of self defense or crime if maybe like there's a robbery going on the robber gets shot, obviously that person is still committing a crime but the like punishment for robbery isn't like roadside execution by a random person society.
We still have due process checks.
We still believe that guilt isn't just that you commit a crime but it's going through a series of procedures to actually establish guilt and additionally there's also the principle of proportionality where it's important to make sure that the punishment is proportional to the crime.
That's why we have things like laws and all these kinds of legal checks in the first place to make sure that the criminal defense system and the justice system are fair systems and those require that self defense and individual citizen actions are done in the most minimal form possible.
So for all of those reasons, we should absolutely limit the right of self defense.