We should not subsidize student loans because subsidizing student loans only masks the problems that exist in public in higher education.
It doesn't really actually solve anything in a meaningful way.
So let's start by describing what the actual problem is.
And the problem is that it costs far far too much to get a college education nowadays.
Especially in places like america, where you can spend tens of thousands of dollars a year.
Actually, way more than that.
You could probably be spending closer to forty thousand dollars a year on tuition at a lot of institutions in america.
Which is way way too much money.
And it's an impossible burden for people to take on.
So it may sound nice, it may sound appealing to subsidize student loans that people are taking on but let's break down what these subsidies are actually probably going to look like.
In reality, probably not all that much.
It's going to be like a mild subsidy.
At most, maybe it'll pay for like a fraction of what you're actually taking on debt wise.
And beyond that, you're already taking on.
The fact that like your student loan it's going to get subsidized, even if they subsidized half of your fucking student loan, you could still be taking on tens of thousands of dollars of debt.
And because you're in a predatory situation where your career prospects are severely limited without a college degree, sallie mae or similar like private loan actors can charge whatever they want as far as interest wage is concerned so you could see double digit interest rates on your loan as like as far as what you would have to pay back.
So I really don't see how much of the meaningful difference this is going to make.
It's only going to mask the problem.
Because people are still going to graduate with way too much debt, people are still going to have like like the student debt crisis is going to go anywhere.
And beyond that, beyond the fact that this isn't going to help the fact that people are taking on too much debt, this isn't going to help change the fact that private loan providers can be incredibly predatory in their practices.
And it creates this illusion of solvency that: " oh, well if you're going to be like if you're going to be helping people pay for it already then it doesn't matter if like these private businesses get to make their money however they want. "
Or whatever.
And I think that like the political will that's at stake as far as actually regulating these people as a whole lot worse.
And moreover, I also think that there is less likely going to be political will for people to do it too because there's going to be intense lobbying in politics by the people who make their billions and not and probably like billions and hundreds of billions of dollars off of the backs of students who can't afford to make these payments oftentimes anyway.
So all that is bad.
But the final thing that I want to talk about is what this is going to come as the sacrifice of.
Because we already don't see enough government subsidies for things like aid and grants and things like that.
Which are which are targeted towards the most needy people.
The people who like maybe like the first person in their family, the first person in like that they know even, in their communities that are going to college.
Going to try to like get get like a college education, really help a whole lot.
And it's not like the government's going to have like infinite money that it's going to be willing to spend on higher education.
So this money that you're going to be seeing spent on loan subsidies are probably going to if not offset like like if not like actively decrease the likelihood that people are going to wanna pay for that.
In the same way that when like the government subsidizes healthcare, the first thing certain political parties like to do is say: " we need to cut medicaid " which helps poor people.
You're probably gonna see similar things here, where when these like more broadly like when these programs that are in theory targeting the middle class, even though they're not doing enough, it's going to come at like a price tag and it's going to be conservative and say that we have to make cuts to like aid programs now.
So for all those reasons I definitely think that we should not subsidize student loans.