We should abolish the american jobs act because at the end of the day it doesn't do nearly enough to actually fix the problems that are excedent society and it's just a waste of political capital and it takes away from the ability to actually pass more effective legislation.
So let's break all these kinds of things down.
It's important to keep in mind that in order to pass some kind of broad legislation, especially one in which a lot of money is going to be spent, it's very very difficult to do so.
By and large there is an overwhelming political resistance, whether it's by republicans or wealthier interests like wealthy people in the society who are worried that they're going to have to be taxed more.
There's an overwhelming uphill battle when it comes to large public spending especially on things that aren't the military which the americans job backs is.
So what this results in is that passing any kind of legislation at all on the matter is already going to waste a lot of your political capital and it's going to mean that it's not able to actually fix all that much.
So that's important because it means that if you're going to be passing legislation at all in this matter you should be making sure that it's one that effectively actually solves the problem.
I don't think that the american jobs act does nearly enough.
Keep in mind that we exist in the nation with absolutely abysmal crumbling infrastructure old public old acts like old and outdated things like public utilities and energy grids, roads are in disrepair, railroads are by and large ineffective means of travel and things like that.
Public education is not all that great, pay and wages are strongly contrasted in things like that.
And all of these things are incredibly important because when you're talking about legislation that is supposed to actually help with employment in america in terms of a crisis, these are problems that you have to solve and make sure you're actually solving them.
So this means that things that should have happened are more money should have been spent on infrastructure projects, it should have been done so in a more expansive way, more money should have been spent on things like worker protections, worker wage protections, unemployment protections, things like that.
Things that would actually help improve the lives of american workers and the like.
And I think that it is by doing those things you would actually see more tangible positive impacts that policy.
You would first see a whole lot more people actually getting employed, a whole lot more people actually being benefiting from these things and not just on the individual level, but you will also see society benefit a whole lot more because you would actually be doing these things to a great enough degree that they would be doing more than just a drop in the bucket.
They would actually be causing substantive change.
And that's key because that's I think that the best way in which you actually make sure that the changes that you're passing are long lasting.
And it is for all those reasons that we should abolish the american jobs act.