Community service should be mandatory because it's incredibly good for the public and it's something that you in a lot of ways should have an obligation to do.
So let's start by talking about what this will actually look like.
I think that a reasonable way to impose mandatory community service is that everyone in a country, no matter who you are as long as you're capable of doing it, maybe if you're sick or like terminally sick or incredibly young you can get out of it, but pretty much everyone should have to do community service and you have to do it for a certain number of hours or days based on where you are in the individual country in question.
So why is this something that would be a very good thing?
So I think that right now there's obviously a lot of things that need doing in terms of public sector.
Garbage needs to be taken out sometimes people like like littering happens and it doesn't go in garbage cans, but you have to like work in soup kitchens, you can try to help like build public housing, you can volunteer like social services or things like that, be like a police like a police phone operator, things like that, to like route emergency calls, like there's all kinds of things in which like you could reasonably do for a volunteer basis that would probably be pretty helpful for a whole lot of people.
So there's obviously things that need to be done.
And I think that right now we see an incredibly large degree of budget shortfalls in most most governments.
There is an incredible unwillingness to give money to governments to pay full time workers for these kinds of things so I think that, in most cases, a lot of these jobs don't always get the adequate funding that they could do that they deserve so there is shortfalls and that various important public services get underdone which is a problem.
So why is mandatory community service a good good obligation that you have and a good way to solve this problem?
And I think that first and foremost it's just kind of a basic give and take with society.
You take a lot from society whether it's you get safety from society from their existence of police forces and fire departments, you get basic sanitation, you get like things like that, they build infrastructure up, like society obviously gives a whole lot to you that makes your day to day life possible.
So giving back to that society by performing various public services on an inconsistent but on an inconsistent basis every year or so is something that I think can be is something that I think you owe to society for all that it's given to you.
But I think beyond that you also want to look at the like cost benefit analysis of like the good that you can do you verses the burden that this puts on you.
Because ultimately this isn't really that big of an obligation.
It's not going to be like like a full time job or anything like that, it's basically just going to be a couple of days a year in total.
Year is like three hundred and sixty five of them you can probably give up like point five percent of your time to helping people.
I think that it's kind of ridiculous to argue that this is some kind of unreasonable burden that we're putting on people.
It's a pretty basic thing and I think that it's a minimal violation of any kind of like like choice that somebody may have or autonomy that somebody may have.
So for all those reasons we should have mandatory community service.