We absolutely should not end progressive taxation, because progressive taxation is simply necessary to ensure a functioning modern society, and a functioning society, certainly a fair society.
So, I want to start by talking about the way in which the government team set up this debate, because I think it's rather interesting the ground that they took.
The government sets up this debate as below a certain level like poverty line, you're not going to have to pay any kind of taxation, or less taxation, or whatever, and above that line, you're going to have a flat tax rate.
But that's interesting, because while it's not maybe the way, in which most societies have progressive taxation, that's still sounds like a form of progressive taxation, in that you have two different tax brackets, better off people pay more money, and worse off people pay less money.
These people, who are below the poverty line, may have jobs, they may have more dependents, or like there could be any kind of factors that, like, separate them.
It's basically a classification based on their income, and some people pay more, and others less, and that sounds like to me, pretty obviously, a progressive tax system.
And, I think that the reason, why this is the system that was set up, is because the person who gave the speech on government knows that this isn't actually, in any way, feasible without society just isn't feasible without progressive taxes, for a few reasons: first and foremost, because literally everything that we are going to be spending our money on, as a government, is going to become incredibly difficult to spend money on.
Whether it's like education, or healthcare, or security even, all of these things are going to become much much harder to spend for, and here is why: because, in order to actually fund things at adequate levels, you need to have rather high taxes on large degrees of wealth.
So, this is why, like, if you're like a really really wealthy person, with like millions or billions of dollars, your taxes should probably be a whole lot higher, because you have more to give.
The problem is is that the majority of people, who occupy at the middle class, especially if they're going to have like the same tax rate as the wealthier people, I think that like the political momentum is very clearly going to be in favor of lower taxes, because people tend to be greedy, people and not want to give up more of their money, when they can give up less of their money, and especially because people are going to be people, who are like in the middle class and things like that, aren't necessarily as dependent on like government resources in some circumstance as other people, so they're going to be less likely to be willing to fund those things too.
And I think that's a big problem, because this means that the government's going to be literally hemorrhaging money.
So, all of those like cool things that governments fund now, like healthcare, medical research, scientific research, all of that stuff, you're probably not going to be able to do all those things anymore, and that's all going to be very bad.
But, I also think that the way, in which this uniquely screws over poor people in society, and the way in which this is going to hurt with income redistribution is also a big deal.
Because, I think that what this does is, it sets up a society where wealthier people are going to be able to keep a whole lot more of their money, and there's going to be a lot more wealth inequality, because you're not going to see redistribution as much.
And I think that that's very important, because this allows people with huge huge amounts of money to try to like maybe bribe politicians to get like more favorable treatment, to do things like fundraising, or like stuff or politicians to try to do things like like monopolize competition, and buy out competition, make societies last competitive in fact, and all those kinds of things.
Once you have like a greater accumulation of wealth, when you have like a huge corporate and things like that, or or massively wealthy individuals and things like that, all these kinds of things make so that there's much more of a power imbalance, so that you're not even actually having as much of a democratic society.
So, I really think like the like wealth inequality is like a threat to free society, as much as it's a threat to our economies as well.
So, for all of those reasons, we should not and progressive taxation.