We should abandon television, because it is archaic, expensive, unnecessary, and not good enough compared to what we have.
So, let's talk about the comparative first, because that's a very big part of this debate.
I think that the comparative is that, when we abandon television, we ultimately have an alternative, and I think that that alternative, in our present technological age, is likely to be the internet.
So, what we're going to argue is that, the using the internet as a replacement for television is vastly preferable to the status quo.
So, I think there's two big reasons for this: first of which is money related, and the second of which is actualizing on your preferences.
So, first, let's talk about money.
So, televisions are incredibly expensive.
First and foremost you have to buy the TV itself, and you oftentimes have to buy like newer televisions, if you want to keep up with technology, so televisions themselves are expensive, and getting a good TV that works well can also be expensive.
Additionally, you have to find space for all that television.
Additionally, you also have to find you have to pay for a cable box, you to pay for a cable plan, which can be expensive, or a satellite plan.
Additionally, you have to pay for all like the electricity that it uses, things like that.
And these things can be expensive, I mean TV's can like several hundred dollars, cable can be like fifty dollars a month, or things like that, these aren't costs these things aren't nothing, so those that's important to note.
The other thing is because internet is so important, you likely have to pay for internet anyway.
So you're paying for all of these things, on top of internet, which can provide the pretty much same services roughly as television.
And, that's important, because, if you want like news, you can get news off the internet, if you want entertainment, you can get that off the internet, if you want videos, you can get that off the internet, there really isn't anything unique in value, that TVS provide, that you can't just get off of a computer.
So, it's basically just like a pointless waste of money, and I really don't understand why we shouldn't just abandon television, and move more towards like internet focused models.
This is especially important for poor people in society, or younger people in society, who may not also have the money for these kind of things, because they shouldn't be like like whether it's news, or more like official forms of news, so they don't have to be reliant on internet blogs, or bigger budget entertainment projects, these kinds of things shouldn't be like closed off to like people in society, just because they don't have the money to pay for it, and I think that, the internet is good as a comparative to TV, because it gives more people the ability to view these kinds of things.
But I also think that, abandoning television will be good for people's preferences, because in the status quo, in order to actually like get something that you want on television, there need to be enough people in society that actually agree with you.
So, there's less opportunities for experimental things, there's less opportunities for independent things, because there is a fear that not enough people are going to like it for it to actually succeed on TV.
But, when you take a lot of the financial problems out of this, the result that you get is, when you have it focused on internet, is that anyone can put out content on the internet, or you can have a much easier, because there's like less of a limit of air time, where you don't have to give the air time to the things that are going to make the most money, and limited time slots, this results in just a wider pool of content that you can choose from.
Because you can essentially have like an endless library, that people can view at any time.
So, that's important, because I think that what it results in is people can now watch what they want, when they want, at their own convenience, and in a lot of ways that's just a whole lot better for people, actually actualizing on their preferences.
So basically, like television is expensive, and it's not even that good at providing entertainment, or news, which is what its goal is supposed to be.
So, for all those reasons abandon television.