We should end international aid for two big reasons: because it's preferable to spend that money on your own people and your own needs, and second because international aid is in most cases affirmatively harmful.
So, let's start by talking about why there is preferable ways to spend your money.
Obviously governments have limited budgets and they can't spend money on everything they'd like to spend money on.
Most governments already aren't making money, most governments are already net losing money, and most governments have rather tight budgets and have a whole lot of things that they need to balance.
So you need to be scrupulous with what you're actually going to spend your money on.
So given that you have these limited resources it's probably a better idea to spend that limited money on your own people.
Because your own people are the ones who you should have a primary obligation to help before helping other people.
So this isn't just a comparison of like picking your own people over other people though, because it's not like people in places like america, if you're like the american government contemplating spreading aid out, don't have their own needs.
It's not like america has a healthcare system or infrastructure or an education system, or a whole other slew of things that are woefully underfunded right now.
So money that is getting spent on international aid is money that isn't getting spent on domestic problems.
For every multi billion dollar or multi million dollar aid package that is going to another money, that's a multi million dollar package that can't go to say preventing homelessness or helping fight child poverty, or other slew of issues that are incredibly pressing, that we're not really doing enough for right now.
But additionally aid is oftentimes actively bad.
And aid is oftentimes bad because it fosters a dependency on by the person receiving aid on the person who is providing the aid.
And the biggest reason is because there's not going to be as much of an incentive or or even as much of a capability to create your own infrastructure and things like that when you're going to be reliant on aid.
And there's a couple of reasons for it: first you're not going to want to really bother spending money on something that you can get for free, that much is obvious, but secondarily aid is oftentimes a way that you can price out more local alternatives.
So let's see if you're trying to get food aid to a country.
When you give food aid to a country the value of that food is essentially being taken away from local farmers and local people in an economy.
The same thing with just about like any manufactured good.
And this is oftentimes particularly a large problem because most of the time when countries give out aid, usually it tends to have provisions like for tied aid, that require you to, say, if you need to purchase malaria nets you have to purchase them from the country that is giving you aid etcetera etcetera.
So what this does is this creates an environment in which you're going to keep being reliant on aid because you're not going to have your own local economy being sufficiently growing that it's able to support itself.
And this means that ultimately you're going to have more long term problems than if you didn't accept the aid in the first place.
So for all those reasons we should end international aid.