We should absolutely not further exploit natural gas, because natural gas is just as destructive to the environment and to human society as any other fossil fuel, and it is definitely something that we need to ease ourselves off of sooner rather than late of later.
So, let's start by talking about why natural gas is just a bad thing.
And for starters, we talk about the way in which it's extracted because you need to create you need to create ways to extract natural gas.
So whether this creates like some kind of like underground drilling, underground like pipelines to funnel natural gas, things that can result in leakage or explosions or other kinds of problems for the environment, things that, even if there aren't any accidents, are inherently destructive to the environment, both in the way in which the resource is harvested and in the way in which it's ultimately processed by like being released by cars or factories or whatever is using the natural gas.
So, obviously, natural gas, despite being like called natural is anything but natural in the impacts that it actually has on the environment around it.
So, why does this matter, besides the fact like that you don't want to just like completely destroy the environment because it's generally nice when you can breathe the air around you, when the food you eat isn't poisoned, all of those things are good.
It's also a matter of basic survival.
It's not a coincidence that winters are getting more extreme, summers are getting hotter, hurricanes are getting stronger, blizzards are getting stronger, wildfires in like places like california are getting bigger than ever, a lot of these things are happening in like they're like a lot of these extremes are happening in like very close proximity to each other and it's no coincidence that these things are happening now, given the impacts that climate change is already having.
And natural gas is certainly a part of it cause natural gas, just like any other fossil fuel, takes part in global warming.
So, obviously, natural disasters and things like that are one thing that's bad.
Also on the basic level of food insecurity and how land shortages a good deal of the earth is probably going to start to become like uninhabitable because of climate change, whether it's because the places are going to become too hot, too cold, too ravaged by natural disasters, food often can't grow in certain temperatures, food can't really survive temperature extremes very well either.
Furthermore, we're also in like an ongoing mass extinction event so a lot of ecosystems are going to die out, which is also going to impact the way in which humans are able to consume food.
So all of those things are very, very bad when it comes to making sure that humans are going to be able to survive.
So, beyond all of those things, there's also inherent problems in exploiting a resource further that's really destructive because, at the best case, it's going to just be a waste of investment because in the long run, it's just going to be a necessity that we don't use natural gas, because we're going to literally die if we don't start to like make sure that we have greener technologies happening.
But beyond that, it's also probably going to lead to even more laziness in actually investing in our futures and investing in greener technologies because once you've put down all of these billions of dollars into like gas pipelines, into drilling operations and things like that, you're probably going to be less likely to just throw it all away in out of even if it's out of necessity, and it also is certainly going to increase political will against such alternative investments in things like green energy, which is definitely better.
So, for all of those reasons, we should not exploit natural gas.