We should not end international aid because international aid is incredibly important on a moral level, on a political level, and it doesn't come with that many costs so it's definitely worth it.
So let's start by talking about why international aid is so important and I think that the biggest way is that honestly I think to some extent there's a moral obligation to give out international aid.
When you look around the world you see a lot of people who are a lot less fortunate than than countries than people who live in a place like america.
You see around the world people who live off of like our dollars dollars a day compared to what people in america live off of.
You see widespread food insecurity, you see not a whole lot of health and health infrastructure a lack of safety in a lot of contexts and things like that.
And one of the biggest ways in which you can solve a lot of these problems is money because money is important.
Money can buy clean drink you can buy clean drinking water with money, you can buy like malaria nets with money, you can buy food and shelter with money.
International aid can be incredibly important and a tool for good to solve a lot of problems that people have on a day-to-day basis.
So obviously it can do a whole lot of good.
So why should we feel an obligation to do that?
And the big reason there is that a lot of countries are first in situations like this because of developed countries or western countries having like a legacy of imperialism and colonialism that led to taking advantage of this whether it was the literal like stripping land of resources and enslaving enslavement of people that led to the current global order that we see today where western countries have a disproportionate control over resources and a disproportionate control over wealth or whether it was like using intergovernmental financing agencies, whether it was the world trade organization or the IMF or similar entity, the world bank in order to essentially force developing countries to accommodate western corporations to the largest extent possible so that western corporations could enrich themselves in their home countries while doing minimal good for the people who actually live in these countries and where the resources actually are.
I feel like to a large extent the reason why there's a lot of problems in the world is because of the actions that were taken by western countries so they definitely should be giving aid almost as a form of reparations to help prevent that.
But I also think that on a political level this is simply just a good thing to do.
Nothing builds up political will better, nothing makes the people on the ground happier and more willing to cooperate with you, than to help them solve the problems financially.
When you look at the way things are now in the world the reason why we have such a strong alliance with countries throughout europe a strong alliance with places like japan a strong alliance with other countries that we obviously bomb the crap out of them during world war two completely burn down most of their cities why don't these countries hate us because after we did that we help them rebuild, we gave them large amounts of international aid whether it's the marshall plan or similar plans and what this did is it resulted in a progression of these countries economies and when you look at places nowadays whether it's places in africa or more prominently places in the middle east that we've bombed, you look at these places that we're not giving them a level of help so we're not doing a whole lot in order to make their lives better so I think that's a clear problem there.
And I think that we can see a lot of problems get solved and a lot of political goodwill being brought up if this were to be implemented.
But finally I think that this is really cheap.
It's really cheap because it's it's just not that big of a part of our budget whether it's when you compare it to things like our military budget, our domestic healthcare spending budget, or things like that, the amount of money that gets spent on international aid is pennies on the dollar really not a whole lot of money.
So a lot of these benefits can be for low amounts of money so it's definitely worth it.
So for all those reasons, do not end international aid.