We should protect edward snowden because edward snowden did an incredibly valuable public service and it took a great deal of self sacrifice having to leave the country he grew up in behind in order to really deeply help the people in that country.
So let's start by talking about why what he blew the whistle on is absolutely abhorrent and is something the government should have never been doing in the first place and certainly non-secret and then second, why it was necessary for him to take the actions that he took and circumvent like traditional like avenues of like essentially whistle blow illegally.
So let's start by talking about what exactly he did.
Obviously he uncovered a huge mass of national security surveillance.
A large deal of which the public wasn't really aware of and I think that this is inherently bad because there's a reason why we have several amendments in the US constitution that explicitly protect people's privacy in different ways.
Whether it's like freedom against searches and seizure or other kinds of things.
It's always been a right the right to privacy has always been one of the most important things in america and certainly a lot of our jurisprudence upholds this idea and the reason for that is just because people have the right to have like their own identity basically and control what people know about them, what people can possibly harass them based on and what people how people are going to live their lives and when the government has essentially like near infinite information on every single person in society, that creates like a huge problem and a lot of ways it's like a surveillance state type that is really really eerie and spooky in that the government would be able to monitor you at all times, know where you're going at all times, know everything that you're doing at all times, and these are things that certainly the government just should not know about you.
The government shouldn't know where you are every minute of the day.
The government shouldn't know who you're talking to every minute of the day because people should have the expectation of privacy, people being able to like keep communications like maybe between people who are close to them or business communications are all of these things private.
But beyond just like the fact that the government shouldn't have this information in the first place, the fact that the government is collecting all this information one place is an absolutely horrible and stupid idea especially in relation to cybersecurity.
So what would be easier?
Let's say that you want to get every single person in america so you want to get half of americans of a hundred forty million or so security numbers, what do you do if you want a hundred and forty million security numbers?
Do you hack equifax or do you hack a hundred and forty million people's individual computers and try to get those security numbers?
You're probably going to do the first one because that just makes way more sense because you're you're only having to do the thing once.
You're getting all that massive data at once that's more useful.
So when the government just compiles all of this sensitive information people's like phone like like records from like internet like transaction like basically like anything that you do that leaves some kind of a digital footprint, the government tries to illicitly collect data on, creates something that's incredibly vulnerable to hackers because the government certainly can't keep itself safe from hackers.
The CIA is getting hacked for christ sake.
Beyond that it's also a big problem that there was never sufficient public discussion about this.
There was never really consent to this in that the people never really knew the extent to which the government was actually watching them and the fact that there was so much uproar afterwards, the fact that the CI that the fact that the NSC an the CIA and all these other agencies had pressure put on them to try to change some of the tactics they're doing to make it at least a little bit better, shows how upset people were at what was happening.
That people didn't know that was happening in the first place.
That brings us to the final thing which is why was necessary that edward snowden did this?
Politicians didn't care, the people didn't know, and this was keep going to happen again and again for who knows how long.
Edward snowden took a stand and for those reasons we should protect him.