We should ban gerrymandering because it's straight up anti-democratic and it's one of the absolute worst things that is happening in american democracy right now.
So it's important to point out that there's numerous ways in which gerrymandering is anti-democratic and absolutely horrible.
First, it overrides the most basic principle of democracy.
The most basic principle of democracy is the people pick their representatives.
The people pick who's in power and it's the basis of self-government that the people get to pick, because that's the only way in which they can have meaningful control over government.
What you don't get to have is a situation where the representatives are picking their constituents, and that's what happens when you gerrymander.
You contort districts in strange ways, break up natural boundaries, natural cities, and municipalities and levels of organization to create these skewed districts that don't actually really have any kind of like real bearing on the people that actually live there.
And this is really like a big problem because it prevents people from being able to pick their representatives because they're getting packed into these districts with or like broken up where they're not really going to be able to have meaningful political power.
And that's incredibly important because it means that representatives and incumbents are going to have their power entrenched and you're not going to be able to have like new ideas challenging.
You're not going to be able to have like like moderate challenges or more principled challenges or any of that kind of stuff because it entrenches the party that's already in power, and it makes it so that even if like the like most basic thing of government is if someone does something that you don't like in office, you can throw them out of office.
It makes it so that you can't do that.
And even if like you win if your party wins an election with huge majorities, the minority party can still stay in power because it skewed the system in such a way that it it preserves its own power.
But beyond that, it also breaks up the natural like ways of political organization.
So like besides just like the explicit anti-democratic elements, it also breaks up political organizing.
Oftentimes like districts can be like incredibly stretched out and skewed in weird ways so you don't actually even sometimes know who your representative is because it can constantly be changing, because your neighbor may have a different representative from you, so you can't really organize to lobby your representatives in like community organizing in the same way, and it's much more difficult to do so.
So it really prevents like grassroots engagement and grassroots political organizing as well.
But additionally, gerrymandering is also incredibly problematic because it empowers certain kinds of people at the expense of others.
Oftentimes people who live in cities, people who are like minorities, people who tend to like vote maybe for like one party or another as far as like statistical like likelihood is concerned are probably going to be disadvantaged if they live somewhere where they're not the predominant party in power.
So if you like live in texas or somewhere and you live in dallas, you're probably going to see, even if like dallas or houston is like a is a more liberal place, you're probably going to have more conservative representatives, because your political power is going to get broken up by republicans that are in power.
And this like is incredibly problematic because it can mean that representatives will be like directly at odds with your views and that you're not actually going to get meaningful representation and power.
So for all those reasons, we should ban gerrymandering.