We should not abolish -tronic voting because electronic voting can be very helpful for helping democracy by increasing voter turnout.
So let's start by talking about a really big problem right now.
And that problem is that a lot of people don't vote.
And many people don't vote even though they're eligible to vote, and they don't do it for a lot of reasons.
Maybe because they can't get time off work, maybe it's because they're old and it's difficult to travel to a polling place, maybe it's because there's expenses, literal like financial expenses involved in the travel or it's inconvenient, maybe it's because waiting on line for several hours to cast your vote isn't really so that you can feasibly do if you have to take care of children, there's a whole slew of reasons why people don't necessarily vote and that's a big reason why voter turnout is really low oftentimes.
Not even close to a hundred percent.
Generally it can be in like the fifties or sixties.
If it's not a presidential election in america it can be like really really low like abysmally low turnout.
And I think that electronic voting can be absolutely fantastic in solving a lot of these problems.
Because electronic voting is something that is incredibly accessible.
It's easy to do, you don't have to wait on line, you don't have to travel to a polling place, it's just simply something that you could do at home that will take only a couple of minutes.
And that makes it a lot more likely that more people participate in the democratic process.
Which means that just like more voices are going to get heard, your government is going to be more accountable and the government is going to be more representative of what people actually believe.
And there's really nothing that's more valuable in a democracy than actually having a representative democracy.
It's what gives the government its legitimacy, it's what makes decisions like valid decisions that you can enact against people and increase public support and trust with the government when you actually know that it's really upholding the will of the people and not just some small subset of the population that is able to vote on any given day.
So all of that would be great.
And I think that the concerns that what exist against electronic voting are by and large alarmist and unintelligent.
So you can look at things like maybe people are worried about voter fraud or safety or electric hacking.
And for starters is worthwhile pointing out that these could be things that happen in the status quo.
Like russia was already hacking russia's already hacking standard election practices around the, around the world, hacking into election machines and things like that.
So the status quo isn't exactly all that safe from tampering as it is.
But I also think that there it's probably an over exaggeration to say that you can't successfully have electronic voting.
Several countries in europe already do it and it works out pretty fine for them.
But beyond that we already use the internet for a whole lot of things and in most circumstances it's okay.
Whether it's like electronic banking or having valuable information on the internet in a lot of kinds of things.
The biggest things are oftentimes seeing information being stolen, but that's not like, but stealing information is very different from actually tampering with information and tampering with results.
Especially if you have sufficient safe guard in place.
So like maybe the internet isn't necessarily a safe place to store information like social security numbers because those can easily get leaked, but if they were actually, but if somebody were like trying to hack with the goal of like replacing one set of social security numbers in a database with a different set of social security numbers, that's probably something that is like going to set off some kind of alarm or trigger you're probably gonna be able to notice that.
So I think that it's probably like overly alarmist to say that we wouldn't be able to effectively like safeguard electronic voting patterns.
But the final thing is that if there is some kind of marginal trade off with like the validity of the elections, that's already something that we have right now.
And the massive increase of people who are now able to participate in the process is simply far more important.
For all those reasons we should not abolish electronic voting.