We should subsidize adoption because it's the moral thing to do.
So to start by framing this let's talk about what are the realities of being an orphan because it's not pleasant.
The vast majority of the world's orphans live in the developing world.
A lot of people are refugees people who may have lost their parents to some kind of war or maybe simply their parents weren't able to take care of them so like there's tons of orphans who like come from like developing countries are war zones or things like that and obviously these people are in like the worst of all possible situations and the governments don't really have the infrastructure to care for them and their lives aren't really going to be all that great if people weren't willing to adopt them.
And more but even beyond that even in like more developed countries there is still a good deal of people who get put up for adoption because their parents may not have wanted them or un their parents could have died too.
And there is besides like the developmental harms and things like that things like not having like basic connections with parents maybe not having like like human connection and love in the same way that leads to like your emotional development in a beneficial way.
There's obviously often a lack of resources to that are associated with being an orphan.
So I think that the government should make it maximally possible for these people to have the best lives possible and I think that the way that you could achieve that is by incentivizing adoption.
So how do you do that?
You do it most notably by making it more financially beneficial to you more financially feasible and that would likely lead to pretty positive impacts.
So why?
We already often do things like give tax breaks right now for having kids because we recognize that people are probably going to have kids anyway and it's something that we should encourage because having a kid is expensive.
But having but adopting somebody also does good for society and it actually does even more good for society because it their societies are going to have to like dedicate resources for caring for kids anyway so when parents adopt people it helps society out and it also helps the kids out of course a whole whole lot.
So it's definitely something that the government should be encouraging on like a policy level.
And moreover it's not like the fault of these kids that they're in these situations that they're in people don't choose where they're born people don't choose to be born to parents who get killed in a freak accident or in a war and people don't choose to be born to parents who aren't ready to have kids and don't want them and put them up for adoption.
So it's really not fair to make sure that kids are in a situation where it's not like they're in the best possible place to succeed.
But moreover I also think that this is like a minimally difficult decision that people make oftentimes.
The reason people tend to prefer natural birth to adoption is because when all financial incentives are equal there's just this kind of general biological urge this biological preference towards wanting to propagate your own DNA having your own kid and this and that's fine that's something that like make sense on an intuitive level but it's definitely not a very particularly powerful preference because at the end of the day it's just like something that makes you a little bit happier.
It's not something that really violates your rights in any meaningful way it's not something that hurts your helps society in a meaningful way compared to actual adoption which would be a whole lot more beneficial.
So for all those reasons we should subsidize adoption.