We should abolish eminent domain because it's a violation of people's property rights which is incredibly important.
And the reality is that oftentimes what the government seizes isn't even going towards a good genuine public purpose anyway.
So let's start by laying out just what on face is wrong with eminent domain.
And it comes from the fact that the government is basically forcing you out of where you live, where you've lived possibly your whole life and for generations, and is trying to like say: " oh well we'll make it up to you by just giving you some compensation, just giving you some money. "
And I don't really think that that's an okay thing for the government to do because your, where you live, your home is one of the like most important things to you.
You can have like a whole lot of money invested in that location, you can really have like deep ties to the community.
There is a whole lot of things that keep people from wanting to like stay in the place that they're currently living in.
So that's why it's important to make sure that we have really like strong norms against just like taking people's houses away.
But eminent domain is something that is widely abused right now in a lot of ways.
Most notably the legal standards that are in place for eminent domain it only requires like a rational reason it has to pass rational basis constitutional test, which is pretty basic kind of a thing.
What it does is it considers does the government have some kind of vaguely rational reason, and if so they can basically just give you a bit of money and take away your house and whatever else they want.
So I think that the entire system as it exists right now is pretty abusive in a lot of ways.
Moreover, I also think that these like like limited amount of money that the government does end up giving you, especially because it's like a forced government sale, so you're only going to be able to get so much money out of it and the government can force you to surrender your property, then whatever like limited amount of money it may not be enough.
It may not help you with relocation, it may not help if you're like in a place where it's already affordable and you can't really afford to move to a lot of newer places, maybe you bought the house like a while ago and you've owned it for now, for like a while, but even with like the current value of it you couldn't maybe afford to buy a new place even if you got compensation, there is like community ties and things like that that simply are going to be easily replaced, so all of those are really bad as well.
But the next thing that I wanna talk about is how we're actually, like what's the benefit of eminent domain in the first place?
Because if there's all these harms that are existing, what's the point of even doing it anyway?
There aren't really always that many.
The idea that eminent domain is used to build like schools or various public necessities is kind of a is like a fiction.
You have like recent supreme court cases like kilo vs.
City of new london which established that it doesn't necessarily have to be some kind of public good or public necessity that you're using eminent domain for.
It can just kind of vaguely fulfill a public purpose and that's still enough.
So if your vague public purpose is like spurring the economy by like giving a corporation some new place to build its own like headquarters, like what was happening with I believe it was like a phizer plant in new london connecticut when this was happening, then basically it can just be used like the government as an arm of corporations and other kind of vaguely public interest but not really, taking away your property.
Or like like development companies that are basically just able to profit off of these like take your property for like really minimal value and then try to flip it in like they can make all the profit and they have your land and you don't really get left with all that much.
So I think for all those reasons we should abolish eminent domain.