We should abandon democracy and we should do so because people don't have a right to democracy and things would probably better without it.
So let's start by talking about what we would replace democracy with.
We would replace democracy with a one party state that one party would be liberal it would be probably socialist too and it would oppress and it would definitely oppress violently if necessary anyone who tried to restore the conservative order of capitalist elitists who run everything and racists and people like that none of them will be able to have power so if you're racist if you're stupid if you're some like greedy capitalist none of you get power.
We're going to have a one party state that's going to be filled with accepting open empathetic liberals who are going to be wonderfully understanding they're going to be intelligent and everything's going to be wonderful.
So let's first talk about why that's not really going to violate any important rights at all and then second why that's going to make everything in the entire world a whole lot better.
So let's start by talking about why you don't really have a right to democracy.
And I think this is already something that we implicitly implicitly accept although not to the greatest extent that we're defending here and here's why.
The idea of democracy is basically just that the people choose but we already put limits on that.
People can choose to like for example you can't choose to enslave another person, you don't get to choose to do certain kinds of things we put limits on various we put limits on democracy all the time and we do it for the purpose of empowering people to make sure people's rights are respected etcetera etcetera.
So here's the problem.
I think democracy is necessarily in conflict with a lot of people's rights.
So when you elect people like donald trump with democracy you're oppressing people who are latin american you're oppressing black people you're oppressing women when you put people like jeff sessions in power you're oppressing pretty much like like anyone else when you put roy when you elect someone like roy moore rather than having a one party state that wouldn't let roy moore run in alabama you make it so that like literal pedophiles can get elected because the people who are voting are stupid so all of those kinds of things necessarily come with tradeoffs.
When people get voted because of democracy people's rights are getting affected and people are actually hurt by this whether it's like women who get hurt by antiwoman politicians or immigrants who get hurt by antiimmigrant politicians muslims who get hurt by islamophoes etcetera etcetera.
So we we already accept a limited extent that democracy isn't unlimited we have courts for a reason.
Courts are inherently undemocratic in that they essentially can like unilaterally change the law in a lot of ways.
So we already accept this, but we just need to go farther with this and I think that that's an important thing.
So why would things be a lot better?
Well this is kind of the obvious part.
Whether it's like a trillion dollar tax cut for billionaires that is definitely not going to be on the table anymore or it's things like like a muslim ban or a transgender in a military ban like or like like a genocide in yemen we could there's there's like literally any bad thing in the world could probably be better off if you had more reasonable empathetic intelligent people in charge who aren't greedy asses and that's something that I think that we can replace.
So we would throw all of them out because a lot of them take advantage of democracy.
A lot of them lie to people like donald trump is a liar, a lot of them take advantage of propaganda networks allow them to take advantage of stereotypes or biases that people have, a lot of people are just stupid and shouldn't be able to vote in the first place because you don't because like your stupidity should make it so that really important policy decisions and rights violations are going to be worse off for everybody so I think that a lot of these things can really be remedied especially in a modern age where it's so easy for fake news to spread so you know what replace all of them only allow only allow a one party state to exist and don't let people mess everything up with bad choices.
So for all those reasons abandon democracy.