We should not have universal health care because healthcare should be a choice that people have and I think that introducing universal healthcare would get rid of a lot of choice in very bad ways.
The first is that universal health care means that everyone has to pay for health insurance, and people can't choose to not pay for health insurance.
And I'm not sure that I like the sound of that.
For example, you have a whole lot of young people, or someone like me, who went to the doctor twice last year.
Once for a check up at a pediatrician, and once for a check up in a dentist, and both of them said my health was fine, my teeth were fine, and that's it.
Didn't have any other, didn't have to bother with drugs didn't have to bother for preventative research preventative treatment or anything like that.
And yet, my health insurance cost thousands of dollars a year because I'm forced to pay for it.
And those are thousands of dollars that I could be spending on almost anything else.
It's money that I can be seen evening, so I can like live my life better and more securely, it's money that I could be using to like buy maybe even something frivolous, but that's good for the economy because it boosts consumption.
It's it be money that I would be I could be investing, it's not necessarily both good for the economy obviously, for those reasons, but it's not really good for me either.
And it eliminates a crucial choice that I have about what I need to be spending my money on.
So I don't really think that that's good.
Because universal healthcare is probably gonna like require via tax increases that I spend a lot of money on a service that most people don't need.
It would be much better it may be like like you can make like like maybe like healthcare to be more accessible, or it could be more heavily subsidized, but the way in which universal healthcare is going to be is usually conceptualized, via like single pay or a public option or something like that, it means that really everyone's gonna have to pay for it.
But the other side of it that's bad is that it also means that you're probably going to have less diversity in coverage options, because they're going to be more politicized in nature, and that's not really good either.
So when you have like private health care options, you can just like get the private options that suits you.
So, like obviously if you're like a woman, which like a lot of people are women, they're not going to have to worry about suddenly there's going to be a federal law in place that says that all government health services aren't going to pay for things like abortions, or contraceptions or anything that seems to be like offensive to public morals or some other nonsense like that.
And these are like pretty realistic things.
There's things that the government is already trying to do nowadays, or at least like half the country's government is trying to do nowadays.
So it would be like pretty bad if like the way in which healthcare is happening is dependent on the government.
Or like maybe you're not allowed to do you like like something like stem cell related things, because it's seen as like offensive to fetuses feelings or something like that.
Like these are all things in which like you don't actually necessarily want the government or the state to be in all that much control of like the healthcare system.
Because they may not really do a very good job running it in the first place.
And like even if the private sector has a profit incentive, at least they're going to be more responsive to what people need.
Because if there's a whole lot of people who don't really care about a amorphous stupid public morals, and wants to not have to get an unwanted pregnancy, or want to be able to like safely get a new liver or whatever if they need one, if they need to replace it or something like that, and they're not really worried about the fact that like religious people think that's bad, then the government then like markets are able to recognize that and give options for things like that.
So I think that like you definitely wanna have like private options in place while as opposed to like these universal public options that gets floated around a lot.
So for all those reasons don't introduce universal healthcare.