We should not abandon feminism because feminism is an incredibly important way to advance the equality of women in a world in which women are very clearly not treated equally and need to do something about that.
So let's start by talking about why feminism on a moral level is certainly something that is just necessary and not something we should abandon and additionally, why feminism can achieve practically good gains for women.
So let's start by talking about the moral high ground that comes that is feminism.
And it's obvious that I think that if there is anything that should be true in in like a like a liberal and fare and free society, it should be that people are treated equally irrespective of their gender or their race or religion or anything else like that.
And gender is one of the huge ways in which people have historically, contemporarily been oppressed.
You look at a lot of obvious if you look at society there's clear obvious indicators of that.
Women are more likely to be responsible for doing housework and caring for children as opposed to men who are supposed to be the like earners of money.
Women are likely to be paid less.
Women are likely to be underrepresented in certain industries that are supposed to be male dominate.
So things like tech traditionally or similar kinds of fields obviously when you're talking about like CEO's and the like men are hugely overrepresented compared to the fact that they're like less than fifty percent of the population.
So obviously there's a lot of inequality.
There's economic inequality for women.
There's political inequality for women.
Women are a huge minority in most political aspects as far as like representation of women and they certainly are oftentimes the first people that get screwed over by people in conservatives because of whether it's like anti-women policies on healthcare, or all kinds of things.
So women get screwed over economically, politically, and socially in their expectations that are put on women in terms of like beauty.
So there's all kinds of ways in which women are screwed over in society.
Feminism exists as a way to as a way to fight against this and it starts by doing so as ways of empowering women.
Whether it's by organizing as a movement and employing just like scholars and dialogue and like voices that can be heard to give women strength to fight back against oppression that is happening.
And this is incredibly important.
So for example right now we live in a in a specific point in time where a whole lot of men are finally long overdue getting ousted for sexual assaults and rapes and other kinds of misconduct and the thing is these kinds of things have been happening for centuries and people haven't done anything about it and women have been dealing with harassment in the workplace.
Women have been dealing with rapes and things like this for centuries and not enough not nearly enough has been done about it because men have been overwhelmingly positions of power and they've been able to use that power to silence women to make them fear not coming forward or to make the choice of coming forward would be at the expense of their careers.
So all of these kinds of things, all of these problems, these clear injustices are things that the like the feminism movement fights against.
So you certainly can't abandon feminism not when it does so much to advance the rights and equality and dignity of women.
So do not abandon feminism.