We should not abolish foster care because abolishing state-run foster care systems would be absolutely horrible for a whole lot of children who won't really have all that many other options to turn to.
So, here's your reality: it may sound nice to give a child, when like parents die or where parents don't want somebody, it may sound nice to give that child to close family members, and sometimes that's going to work out great and it's going to happen willingly, like grandparents or aunts and uncles may take very good care of that child.
But I think that that's not something that you should uniformly defer to for several reasons, and the first of which is that like oftentimes, a lot like a good deal of kids just aren't going to have family members.
Maybe those family members don't exist or maybe those family members don't want the burden of raising a child legally or financially or emotionally, because raising a child is a large burden and that may not be something that people want to take on.
And I think that it's unfair for the state to just like force a family member who didn't like consent to this child, who didn't want to have a child, for the state to try to like coerce a family member into taking this burden on because they feel bad and because the state isn't going to do it for them.
But I also think that oftentimes like if you do this, that might mean the family member doesn't take very good care of the child, cause it's a child they never wanted, it's a child they were never prepared to care for financially or emotionally.
So that might not really lead to very good outcomes for the child.
So I think that realistically, besides the fact that like letting like kin take care of a a foster child isn't necessarily going to work all that often, and it will always work out well, I think that like another reasonable alternative is you're going to have like charities or other like private nonprofits that are going to try to take over the state's responsibility.
But I think this is a big problem for the same reason why like when you look at things like homeless shelters or like emergency service providers and things like that, when they're being done by charities rather than them being done by the state, they're simply going to be done in a way in which it's not going to be expansive enough, the funding is volatile because it's based on the goodwill of others, so you don't really have stable funding that allows for long-term planning and things like that.
You're going to have too small of like a too small of an operation, so you can probably like to be capable of dealing with the demand cause that that's a big problem.
Because when you think about it, you're not really going to like have any kind of change in the number of foster children if you ban foster care.
Like accidental pregnancies or accidental death of family members are just that.
They're accidents.
You can't plan around them.
You can't discourage accidents from happening.
So you're probably not going to see any if you if you like get rid of foster care, you're not going to see any less foster care children, and these children are going to have to go somewhere.
You can't just let them be homeless.
That would be absolutely horrible.
So that means that you are then putting the burden necessarily on kin or on an overburdened private charity-based system, neither of which I think is all that great, and I think that that also like undercuts a just a general state responsibility to provide, a state responsibility to make sure that , even if it's not perfect, kids are getting all the basic needs met for them, that kids aren't starving, that kids have a home, and that kids can grow up in a in environment that is supportive of them to the best extent possible.
So for all of those reasons, we should not eliminate foster care.