We should not ban private education because it is, that would be rights violative, that would be bad for public education actually, and at the end of the day the existence of private education isn't really that big of a problem.
So let's start by talking about the people whose rights it would violate.
Because there's I I don't know like a couple billion people in the world who are rather religious and most places in the world that have like public education networks have reasonable segments of their population who are religious.
And additionally in a whole lot of places in the world there's also separation of church and state, where the state isn't allowed to propagate religious educations or things like that.
But be that as it may, those kinds of problems don't actually exist if you're talking about a private school.
So you could have like a catholic private school, a jewish private school, things like that.
And I think that those things are important, because a lot of parents think that it's important that their children get an education that's based on their religious ideals or whatever.
So when you take away the option for them too have religious educations you take away the ability for them to actually fundamentally educate their children in a way that's important to them.
And in a way that's important to their actual lives from a religious respect.
So that's really bad.
The next thing is that I actually think it would be bad for a lot of public education systems and the reason for that is because a lot of public education systems are already overburdened.
And there's this I think false idea that by putting a bunch of rich kids into the system you're suddenly going to make like people more willing to fund, like give money to public education and all those kinds of things are going to make it a whole lot better.
But there's a couple of problems with this: first and foremost the system is incredibly overburdened even though a lot of school districts do have a lot of money spent on them, and just throwing more money into the system isn't actually going to make all that much of a difference.
Additionally, even people who are like self interested actors, aren't necessarily self interested enough that they are going to be willing to like like change school policies on these kinds of things.
The next thing is that I think that most of the money, most of the reason why taxes are low and things like that is because you have like a lot of wealth inequality.
So like a very small amount of like corporations and high net worth individuals monopolize a whole lot of money.
So just putting a lot of like upper middle class people into public school systems isn't actually going to help things all that much.
Third, because of like the way that like segregated communities work financially, oftentimes people can just go to like the rich public the rich public school, and it's not actually going to make a difference.
Anything that's gonna make it worse, because there's going to be more of a segregation within the public school system itself.
So that's not really actually going to cause like root problem solvency for anything.
The final thing that I want to talk about though is that the existence a private education isn't the biggest deal in the world.
Yeah, we should spend more money on public education.
Yeah, we should make sure that everyone, regardless of their socioeconomic background, has access to a good education, but that doesn't necessarily mean that we have to just completely eliminate private education.
If some people, whether because of their religion or whatever reason they so choose, want to have their child educated in a different way, that's a choice they can make and that's fine.
So for all those reasons, don't ban private education.