We should further exploit clean energy sustainable energy because it's a matter of life and death and if that's not enough, if death isn't a good enough reason, it's also a good economic reason which for anyone who doesn't think you're going to die then you probably care about money so there's that.
So let's start by talking about why this is necessarily true.
And this is true because fossil fuels are one of the leading contributors to global warming.
And this is because fossil fuels have incredibly wide ranging demand and also application.
Whether you like want like basic cooling or refrigeration or heating or cooking or transportation like almost everything requires energy.
So obviously energy is important, we all know that.
But energy goes into a whole lot of things too.
Like if you're like trying to make plastics which like make almost any kind of supply, you're probably using oil cause oil is a big ingredient in plastics.
That factory is also running off of electricity, the trucks that are delivering those goods run on electricity, when your car goes to the store that is stores running on electricity and you have to use it to run your car.
Maybe you're going to plug in whatever you buy into an outlet or something or it's going to connect to the internet or whatever.
Obviously energy is everywhere and incredibly important.
So if we could make that cheaper, better, and more environmentally friendly then you're solving a whole lot of problems.
So how are we going to do this?
Well for starters, eventually you're going to run out of a lot of these non renewable resources.
Oil reserves are going to dry up, all of the coal all of the coal is already going to be mined and these things are going to be all problems.
We already see this start to unfold where we're constantly going to new locations to find oil, we're going to like deeper levels of like getting oil, we're getting oil from like new places, extracting it from rocks instead of just like drilling into the ground or all kinds of different ways in which we have to get oil or whatever.
And as this gets like progressively and progressively harder to find these non renewable resources, it's only going to get more expensive and that's like like like independent of the impacts it has in the environment, the fact that it contributes to climate change which makes it so that it's harder to grow food because weather is more extreme and crops only grow at certain temperatures, makes it harder that like city it makes it like more likely that cities will flood because see levels will rise and because of other kinds of natural disasters from like forty year rain events that happen every couple of years like what we saw in texas and puerto rico and other kinds of places like that.
So obviously those are already good consequences.
There's also the economic consequences where in the long run, as like a long term investment, sustainable energy is just going to be better.
Because rather than constantly having to like drill for more oil or mine more coal, you're just going to have a solar panel that's going to get energy from the sun and the sun is always out.
Or sun's always contributing energy even if it's not out per se.
Or if the sun isn't out it's probably windy or cloudy and or you're probably by like an ocean or some kind of river or water so you can adopt like wind turbines or hydroelectric power something like that.
Even nuclear energy could probably be considered sustainable in the sense that it's very very much sustainable and it in a lot of ways functions and non renewable resource because you're probably not going to run out of it really ever.
All of these would be like much better alternatives.
They can oftentimes be in the long term will probably be cheaper both with economies of scale further research and development things like that.
And it's also going to just make it so that people are going to have cheaper supplies of energy in the long run which is just good for the economy because like I was saying, since energy goes into everything from transportation to like shipping to like consumption to cooling to heating and whatever, when energy's cheaper everything about life is cheaper.
So for all those reasons invest and further exploit sustainable energy.