We should abolish foster care and replace it with a system where there'll be mandatory adoption for people who previously would have been put into foster care.
The way we're going to set this up is the same way in which you have to register for like a military draft in a lot of countries, the same way in which you're automatically put into maybe like a jury selection pool, same way and that's going to work if you're able bodied, if you're financially capable, you're going to be put into this lottery system and if you're and if you're selected you're going to be forced to adopt somebody.
And I think that this is going to be absolutely great for a lot of reasons.
So first and foremost, I think that almost all of the possible alternatives are going to be better than foster care.
Oftentimes when you're talking about foster care you're talking about a system that's under funded, a system where a lot of the children are lacking guidance, lacking lacking love and support that is necessary for their development, lacking a lot of basic services and like things that they would need to get by better lives.
And I think that by and large these things can be replaced better by an adopted parent and adopted parents are going to be able to do a better job.
So why is this the case?
For for the most part even if you're forcing the adoption of somebody since this is probably going to be happening at like a younger age by and large since you're forcibly adopting somebody generally love isn't something that has to like come right away or exist from the very second.
It's generally something that comes over time because it's the bonds that are created over time by like experiences over the years, watching growth over the years, forming an emotional connection with the other other human being, things like that.
So I think then in a lot of circumstances this love and care is going to happen over time.
But moreover I think most people have a basic capacity for empathy and understanding and things like that which are going to make it that like this is clearly a human being who's in need in the same way in which like people under most people understood say like the obligation of getting drafted like like by and large most people comply if they didn't want to do it necessarily.
People look at is an obligation because it does social good.
I think that even more so than the military in a lot of cases, adoption is something that people can look at in the same way because it's something that is like a moral obligation to really like help another human being.
And I think that most people respect that.
But beyond that I think that a lot of people this is mostly going to affect people who would otherwise be naturally conceiving because if you're like like capably like physically capable, financially capable, you're probably somebody like who like maybe considering having like a naturally born baby.
And I think that like encouraging adoption over natural birth is like definitely a good thing that you should do in a society given that there's a lot of people who are being neglected right now who deserve that love and support they could be getting.
Moreover it makes sure that there is like more like controlled population growth all other kinds of stuff.
So for all those reasons we should abolish foster care and replace it with mandatory adoption.