We should subsidize student loans because right now there's a crisis of ability for people to afford college and pay off their student loans.
College is incredibly expensive.
Tuition can cost tens of thousands of dollars or even more if you're going to an elite out-of-state private school often times and on top of the fact that these tuitions are incredibly expensive because in order to get like future earnings, in order to have like an economically comfortable life in a lot of ways, you have to go to college.
So the loan providers for education of which there's two there's the government which only allows you to take out so much money in loans so it's not all that helpful if you're going to a private school and then the second one is sally mae which basically has a monopoly of the loan market for student loans and they're able to loan providers are able to basically have like a predatory market because they know that people are desperate to go to college and have to have student loans in order to pay them off.
So you can add interest rates that are well into the double digits in terms of like what you actually have to pay off so you're already borrowing hundreds of thousands of dollars and on top of that interest rates because they're so predatory are going to be incredibly expensive as well and this really screws people over for life because you see an entire generation of young people who are going to have debt over their heads for months like they have to pay hundreds and hundreds of dollars each and every month for decades of their lives in order to just pay off their college loans.
And this is incredibly impactful.
It limits their employee like it limits like their mobility options, it limits their ability to take risks with different kinds of jobs because they're worried about payments.
It limits their ability to make like purchases and things like that for themselves, it limits their ability to make investments so they're less likely to buy cars, are less likely to buy homes, they're less likely to do all kinds of things.
They're less likely to have kids, they're less likely to do all kinds of things that are necessary really for like a functioning society but also for individual people to like really have like a fulfilling lives, it really screws people over a lot of ways when people are just like overwhelmed by debt.
So I think that subsidies can be like a generally good solution to this because while subsidies wouldn't be perfect at least it would mean that the government is paying some of this off.
It would it would certainly be helpful because less money that's being paid paid by like students directly when they're already oftentimes in like difficult job markets with a lot of debt would be helpful.
It would also be helpful for the economy more broadly so in a lot of ways it would pay for itself because you can contribute more to society, you can contribute more to like consumption and all of those kinds of things when you actually have more disposable income to spend and you certainly aren't going to have that if all of your money is going towards student loans on the orders of hundreds of dollars a month.
So for all those reasons we should subsidize student loans.