We should raise corporate taxes and the biggest reason why we should raise corporate taxes is because corporations have way too much money.
Corporations have so much money that I honestly truly believe that they're really not going to miss all that much of the money when you tax them higher.
When you look at the profit margins that a ton of corporations are running, they're usually quite large profit margins.
Especially when you're talking about the basic way in which we tax people, tends to be a progressive tax system, the bigger the corporation, the wealthier the corporation is, the more it should be taxed.
That much is obvious.
So when we're talking about the ability to generate revenue, it's probably going to mostly be proportional to the ability of a corporation to actually pay that.
And that's a big deal because right now there's a ton of corporations that are profiting billions and billions of dollars in in earnings.
Billions and billions of dollars that can ultimately be used for a whole lot of greater things.
And that's really important because when you think about the reasons why I think corporations have like a basic moral obligation to pay this money, there's a couple of things there: first and foremost the reason why the corporations are able to make this money in the first place is because of the government.
And they should therefore be funding the government more adequately.
Governments make sure that there is governments first and foremost protect the property in the first place, they use courts, they have a court system to arbitrate disputes, they create various kinds of like other kinds of avenues that make it easier for you to get your products out there, all kinds of things that the government does to actively help corporations.
But beyond that, it's also just kind of a basic comparison of people who have something verses or or I guess an entity that has something verses an entity that doesn't have a whole that much.
There's a whole lot of need in places like america for more money.
More money to spend on infrastructure, healthcare, education, all these kinds of things.
And corporations simply have the money to spend on these kinds of really good public things.
So it's kind of a basic intuitive moral thing.
Help people in need, especially if you have a ton of money and you can afford to do that.
But I also think that this is especially important given what the alternative of what that money is used for.
Because I think that there's this really ridiculous , there's this really ridiculous argument that the other side often makes, republicans often make, is that " oh, well if you tax corporations too much they're just going to shift jobs.
They're just going to invest less, hire less ".
Things like that.
And I think that a lot of these things are ridiculous.
Because when you talk about most corporations, most corporations park a ton of their assets and don't even do a whole lot with it.
Like you talk about big corporations.
You talk about things like apple that was at one point sitting on more money than the US government was at the height of like like a debt crisis.
You talk about like multi billion dollar corporations that keep revenues essentially as like rainy day funds that they never really need.
You talk about corporations that just kind of like my keep this kind of money around and don't ultimately do that much, or just loan that money to other corporations and don't ultimately generate a whole lot of economic good.
I think that by and large it can be a whole lot better when you look at what the alternative of that money being used for.
Rather than just corporation parking their money, parking their assets in a bank or another investor and leading to like a cyclical economic growth for only people at the very top, now you could actually fuel consumption, because you can rebuild because you can make sure that people have lower healthcare burden costs or people don't have to pay as much for student loans, for education costs.
And those could be all things that are going to increase discretionary funding, which is probably good for corporations anyway.
You can also do things like invest more in a crumbling infrastructure, which is also good for corporations because it makes it more it makes products more easily accessible across different markets.
So I think this is definitely good for the economy as a whole, it's probably good for corporations too.
But none of that, even if none of that is true, it's just an obvious moral thing to do.
So for all those reasons, tax corporations more.