We should end cheerleading because cheerleading exploits and sexualizes women and it plays into traditional gender roles in very harmful ways, and it's also inherently dangerous.
So, let's start by talking about why cheerleading is inherently problematic because it reinforces traditional gender roles in bad ways.
The most obvious way that it does this is the idea that men are the ones who are supposed to actually do the athletic physical activity, the ones who are actually supposed to do the accomplishment, and that women are that like women's place, their role, is just to be on the sidelines cheering men on.
This is obviously something that's inherently problematic because it , first, obviously excludes women in a lot of ways from the actual activities in question and the abilities to participate, and it tries to like pressure or at least , if not very clearly, suddenly push women towards cheerleading as opposed to their own sports in a lot of ways and their own accomplishments.
But it also like reinforces the idea that women should be cheering men on, that their role is that of a supporting figure rather than an active figure, and that's obviously something that's very bad because we should try to like be maximally empowering women.
And when women are watching sports, whether it's like on TV or at their high schools, and women see that men are the ones who are getting all the praise, the accomplishments, and things like that, while women are relegated to the sidelines to merely be supportive, over time these things become ingrained in their minds as the way in which society does and ought function, which is pretty bad.
The next thing is that it hypersexualizes women in really problematic ways.
This is particularly extreme on the professional level which is really bad because millions and not even millions, probably like like a couple billion people watch professional some kind of a sport of some kind that has cheerleaders.
So it's really, really bad that cheerleading functions as essentially a way to like hypersexualize women.
They basically, in a lot of ways, function as eye candy to appeal to the male gaze, to basically draw the attention of men in really problematic ways.
And I think that that's really bad because it is just another way in which we reduce the value of women to their appearances and to their sexuality as opposed to literally anything else, like their intelligence, their athletic abilities, their personalities, or anything like that.
So, obviously, that's something that's incredibly problematic.
It's also particularly problematic because this in a lot of ways reinforces stereotypes about what about like what women should be like, whether it like reinforces beauty norms about what women should look like, it reinforces norms about how women should act, all these kinds of things like that, by reinforcing stereotypes that cater to the male gaze.
So, the final thing is that cheerleading is also incredibly dangerous.
Cheerleading is one of the most common ways that leads to accidents and injuries.
Big reasons for that is because there's limited protection in like even in sports like football or basketball, where you can wear things like headgear, shoulder pads, mouthpieces, in hockey face masks, or in lacrosse masks, like most sports have some kind of protection to protect their athletes when they're vulnerable.
Cheerleading is not like that, and it's incredibly dangerous because you're literally throwing people up dozens of feet into the air.
You might like drop somebody.
They might fall.
They might get a concussion or break a bone or something like that, and it's incredibly common and that's another reason why you should ban cheerleading.
So for all those reasons, ban cheerleading.