We should close all landfills and to start we should talk about what the alternative is or what we're going to do with all the trash we produce because humans produce a ton of trash and I think that the most reasonable alternative to landfills is anything that can be recycled will be recycled.
So anything at all that can be recycled will be recycled and anything that can't be recycled for some reason will just be incinerated and you can recycle it in a different way like use that to create energy.
So why is this why is closing landfills an important thing to do?
I think it starts with the reality that landfills are incredibly polluting and take up a whole lot of space.
Humans produce tons and tons of garbage and when we throw out all the garbage we produce, most of it is going to go to a landfill and most of it isn't going to get recycled.
So what that results in is that every single thing that you throw out all of your like rotten food, all of the chemicals and like the like a half used bottle of bleach that you like spilled somewhere or like whatever you're throwing out all just kind of gets shoved off somewhere and this creates a problem because like those containers leak, these things get open and all of the contents ultimately can like run off into the local environment.
They can get consumed by like rodents which then end up getting like eaten by other animals.
All of the stuff that we put into landfills, put into the environment, can end up going back into the ecosystem and that's really important because obviously that has a harm on animals.
When there's chemicals that are going into the ecosystem all these bad things that are in a landfill it hurt animals and that by itself should be something alarming because animals should be able to live their lives just like not getting destroyed by humans.
But beyond that it's also obviously bad for humans because when it's like plants that are getting destroyed or or animals that are becoming like poisoned, these things end up hurting humans in the long run because we because we consume energy.
We consume these plants and animals and things like that.
But beyond that, I also think that it's important to close landfills because this removes any possible incentives to be lazy because right now we don't recycle nearly as much as we can and as much as we should because it's simply easier to throw something out.
It's easier to just like put it all into a pile and try to forget about the pile rather than actually spending the time and the money as a society to recycle things.
But if you remove the if you remove landfills as an option, if you close them, then it forces people to actually recycle and people generally because the harms of landfills are more removed from people's individual lives, people are probably going to make the stupid and wrong decision unless you actually force them to make the right decision.
So for all those reasons, we should close landfills.