We should not fight for palestinian independence because it'll undermine israeli national security, it will legitimize terrorism as a means of extracting concessions out of states, and it will also require unnecessary sacrifices on the part of israel.
So let's start by talking about why palestinian independence should not be fought for because it would hurt israeli national security and I think that the reasons for this are obvious.
Right now palestinian institutions are incredibly weak.
The PLO's leadership is very much in dire straits where hamas is in a lot of ways more much more popular than the PLO.
The PLO basically has like a dictatorship amongst its people.
There's only limited political autonomy for the actual people and the reason for that is because they're worried about terrorism or even more radical groups taking over and I think that the clearest examples of this are in gaza where after the israelis withdrew in the early two thousands out of gaza out of hopes that this would help spark peace renewed peace agreements and viability of a palestinian state the result is that fair elections election well no elections were held and radical groups like hamas were able to leverage antisemitism sectional fears and also scare tactics like threatening opponents and using violence and intimidation voter intimidation and also candidate intimidation as a means by which to essentially monopolize the levers of government in gaza and ultimately that led to a huge destabilization region where it became much more poor, much more less economically viable, much much more dangerous in terms of like the military groups that are active there and terrorist organizations that are active there rockets are fired out of gaza into israel on a regular basis all of those things would likely only be amplified if now they had total independence where you can't have blockades on independent state because that would be an act of war we're not going to have any kind of reasonable security oversight of the apparatus of like the palestinian state itself.
So I think it's very likely that this would be hugely detrimental to israeli national security.
But moreover I also think that this is a really problematic precedent because it legitimizes terrorism as a way in which to force extractions out states.
Because a lot a lot of like palestinian independence has been predicated on violence as a way.
Terrorism has been a widespread use of as like a tactic, rockets get fired at civilian targets regularly, there's oftentimes stabbings, there are shootings things like that on israeli public transportation or in public locations and these are primarily political attacks which are designed to undermine the israeli state.
So I think that would be a pretty bad message to send to people.
But finally this would result in unwarranted extractions un and concessions on the part of the israelis.
Palestinians are simply asking for too much and supporting palestinian independence necessarily means supporting what they're fighting for and that's everything from the right of return to having east jerusalem be the capital of their new state to the elimination of all currently settlements things like that and I think that's a problem because obviously israel has some deep deeply rooted religious and cultural claims to regions especially places like east jerusalem where there is centuries and centuries of israeli history there and it's the holiest place in the entire world for jew for the jewish people.
And moreover there's also things like the right of return which would undermine israel's viability as a jewish state and essentially fundamentally wipe out its existence as the only jewish state in the world.
So for all those reasons, do not fight for palestinian independence.