We should not ban single sex schools because single sex schools can be a very valuable way to empower women, and also because just banning them outright, even if they're not the best thing, is a violation people's religious freedom.
So let's start by talking about why single sex schools actually do some good in society.
And there's some and there's like a few reasons for it: first and foremost there is a lot of like well documented evidence that because of the way like sexism works, when women are in classrooms with man, oftentimes men feel more empowered to be outspoken, to participate in discussions and things like that, while women are oftentimes implicitly or even explicitly told that they should be quiet, that they should feel less competent in their answers and their contributions and things like that.
And this is oftentimes particularly prominent in more male dominated industries or more male dominated classroom settings even.
So if you're in like a technology based class or if you're in like a math class or things like that, where men are oftentimes implicitly given more of an advantage than women.
It's a lot when you are only, now, when you're in a classroom of only women rather, it becomes a lot easier for you to speak out.
It becomes, you're much more likely to feel comfortable engaging.
Because you're going to be in a classroom with of like a lot of women, and there's going to be less sexism and that's something that's going to be good.
And it helps create like a safer place for women to ultimately be educated.
So that's good.
The next thing is that banning all single sex schools would be a violation of religious freedom.
Because whether you like it or not, I think that the right to like educate your child in the way in which you see fit within reason, and certainly to practice your religion in the way in which you see fit, is a rather fundamental right that we all have, and it's something that's very important, and it's definitely not something that we wanna violate.
And that's a problem.
Because when you ban single sex schools, there's a whole lot of, there's like a good deal of religions, especially if you're orthodox or very religious, where you're not really supposed to interact with women in like the educational context, things like that.
Like if you're like a super orthodox jew then like you're not even supposed like to like shake the hand of a woman.
So you probably can't be in a classroom with them.
Obviously if you're a very religious muslim the same problems apply.
And just because we may disagree with them doesn't necessarily mean that we have to ban the practice outright.
So for those reasons, we should not and single sex schools.