We should not limit the right of self defense.
And we shouldn't limit the right of self defense because other people and most certainly not the state should be able to tell you how what is the best way and to keep you safe.
What is the most effective way when your life is in danger to secure your life?
Obviously a freedom that you have.
So here's the problem: when we talk about things when we talk more like precisely about what a limiting to the right of defense would look like, it would mean maybe things like a duty to flee, so like you try to escape first, duties to deescalate, maybe shooting to like hinder rather than kill, things like this.
And these things obviously can sound somewhat reasonable on its face, obviously you don't wanna like give someone like a roadside execution, if they're like doing petty robbery, but you think your life is in danger.
Because obviously there's still things like rights to trial, proportionate punishment, things like this, and these are important things.
But the thing to keep in mind is that nothing is more important than your own safety and your life.
Because at the worst case scenario is the like the harm is that the person who is initiating the attack in the first place is going to die, but that's no greater of a consequence than the extreme on the other end, which is that you would die.
So you're making a choice between the two.
You want to pick between the you want to pick a person who isn't doing anything wrong and who should have this right to self defense in the first place, so that they can like just live their life really.
And the problem is that I don't really think that a lot of the standards that would be put on, or the limits on a right to self defense would be all that fairly applied.
Because it's very easy to say , especially after the fact, when you're maybe putting somebody on trial for like using wrongful self defense or you're investigating something after the fact.
It's very easy to, after the fact say: " well, in my situation, from where I am, you could have ran.
You could have done this this or that ".
But the problem is that when your life is in danger, when somebody is maybe attacking you, and you don't know if they have a knife on them or a gun on them, when somebody pulls out a gun and you don't know whether or not they're actually willing to shoot you are not, when somebody is attacking maybe somebody else, there is an incredibly high degree of risk fear and uncertainty in these situations.
And it's not really sufficient to say: " oh well this person could have fled. "
But they don't know that, for example, the person attacking you could be like: " well, this person's gonna flee and get help and then I'm gonna be in trouble. "
So they may be able do it like, they could attack you or things like that.
Maybe then they could get away.
And maybe if they stole something like significant from you, that's like really really bad for you and the police isn't going to be able to really do all that much.
And that's besides the point that it's not like the police is necessarily going to be any more careful with another person's life anyway.
So I don't even think it necessarily the assumption that creating limits on self defense is necessarily even going to decrease casualties given how careless police can often be with the lives of others.
So I'm not necessarily sure what exactly you can do to make the situation a whole lot better, but certainly you can't just limit people's rights to self defense when ultimately innocent people are gonna be put in danger the most as a result of that.
So for those reasons don't limit self-defense rights.