We should not limit the internet of things because the internet of things is generally really good.
It makes people's lives easier and at that it's a choice that people make.
So and it's a legitimate choice so you should limit people's choice.
So let's start by talking about why the internet of things is just and actively good thing.
And I think that the reasons for this are very obvious.
The reason why these technologies are being invented in the first place and like millions and millions of dollars is being invested into these new market products is that people think that it's gonna be useful.
People think it's going to be useful to have technology and the internet integrating everything from your car to your refrigerator to your watch to your phone to your TV.
And it's true, these things do make everything easier.
Like are really basic example is I want to watch TV I want to watch like some kind of basketball game on my TV.
But since I'm a young millennial and I don't pay for cable because cable is stupid, I want to just like get individual things that I want that I can watch on the internet, which is oftentimes free.
So how do I get that on to my TV?
Well, if you have like a smart TV you could just like go on the internet on your TV.
Or same if you have like a playstation or something like that.
Or similarly, if you have like a car, especially in the future when we are self driving cars, and you're going to need to integrate things like say google maps navigation maybe, other kinds of things, there's all kinds of ways in which like your life can just be made easier by the existence of the internet of things.
When like all of these things are connected, when you're not like constantly log in and out of every individual advice, when you can like communicate with different advices, when if you're doing something on your phone and then suddenly you wanna like do something on your computer, like those things are gonna be connected.
So like it's like the same concept with like something like google drive, where if you're like editing something in one location you don't wanna have to like be back in the old days where you need like to just like email everything and upload it and then download it, now you can just like do it on the cloud.
Like things like that which just like generally make your life easier and much better.
So all of that's going to be great.
But the additional layer of argument here is that people make choices as to partake in the internet of things.
People do not have to like obviously in many cases the internet isn't really optional nowadays.
Like you have to use things like email at work, you realistically if you wanna like a find things in general you probably need to use the internet.
But the internet of things itself as like in a as an entire entity is definitely not mandatory.
Like there's definitely many things that you don't have to participate in.
If you don't wanna have like a smart refrigerator then just don't get a smart refrigerator.
If you don't want a smart TV?
Don't get a smart TV.
If you don't want an apple watch then just don't, then get like a regular watch.
There's all kinds of ways in which like it's obvious that like you don't have it's not like coercive in the same way that internet access general is.
So like any risks or any problems that may arise from the internet of things, whether it's like dependency or security or anything like that, it's important to recognize that these are all by choice, and that people can just like: " wait, well this may have some kind of risk but it makes my life easier in this other way. "
And that's a choice that people are perfectly capable and rational of making.
So for all those reasons we should not limit the internet of things.