We should keep sanctions and use them when necessary.
So let's start by grounding what this is discussion about.
Because this isn't a discussion about whether sanctions are always the best solution to some kind of international problem or some kind of problem that you're having with a specific country.
The way that this makes sense is whether or not you should stop using sanctions entirely.
So this is really a discussion about whether or not you should even have sanctions as like a tool in the toolbox of of methods essentially for international enforcement of norms our laws or things like that.
So given that, let's talk about why sanctions are definitely a tactic that you should consider using as a country and keep having them.
So the first is that they're just effective.
Oftentimes sanctions are one of the best ways to get your point across.
Like a big example of this most recently is you look at countries like iran, where through the use of sanctions and international cooperation you're able to stop the stop like essentially nuclear armament in a lot of ways by iran, and make it so that they're not really going to be able to actively develop a nuclear weapon in any meaningful capacity.
And those kinds of things are incredibly big international accomplishments, because they come peacefully.
And that's obviously something that's very good and a big part of its efficacy.
But also, a big reason why they work is because money talks incredibly loudly and it does this in a couple of ways: first in terms of the way in which it affects the elites in a country.
Oftentimes countries are run by elites.
Whether those elites are monarchs, like in a country like saudi arabia, or in a country like iran, where you or or like somewhere like russia, where you have business interests, you have like the oligarchs essentially that have tons and tons of money and want to like make more money off their investments and things like that.
So obviously sanctions affect their ability to make a profit because you're not able to do business with a lot of corporations oftentimes if your country is getting sanctioned.
You're not able to make money, you're not able to enjoy a lot of like the fruits of your wealth and a lot of ways.
So that's why for example people like putin care a whole lot about getting american sanctions taken off russia.
Because it hurts putin's bottom line, it hurts a lot of his the elites party line.
Another way in which economic sanctions are incredibly effective is the pressure they put on populations domestically to try to force change.
And I think a lot of ways this is also something that we saw in places like iran.
It's also certainly something that has been used in saudi arabia before, where when the population wants some kind of change and wants concessions from leadership, oftentimes these concessions come in the form of financial payouts, whether in the form of like more expensive welfare systems, or government services and goods.
Like in saudi arabia population, or in places like iran, where the opposite, where the lack of basic goods and services, or the increase in price of basic goods and services, as a consequence of international sanctions, puts pressure to on the leadership in order to encourage change.
So oftentimes this is a big reason why sanctions can be incredibly effective.
Money talks, people want money, people want like things and services in their lives.
But the final thing is that sanctions are obviously just better than the alternatives.
They're peaceful, they don't cause war so you're not like you're not directly killing people on the other side of the in the country, you're not putting your own people's lives in danger and your own military, and you're not also risking consequences of an ever worsening conflict by like an invasion or something like that.
Kinda like what we see in places like iraq or afghanistan.
So for all those reasons we should definitely keep sanctions.