We should abolish homework because abolishing homework will simply lead to better educational outcomes.
So, I want to start by talking about what's the real problem because, by and large, american kids are doing fairly well in a lot of ways in their education.
Could be they could be doing better but, by and large, the problem isn't that they're not capable of learning things and the like.
The bigger problem is that it is kids are chronically reporting that they're overworked, overstressed, not able to sleep because they're up all night doing like all kinds of work, with each teacher acting like their class is often the most important, assigning an hour of homework per class, where kids end up coming going to school, waking up at six in the morning, going to class, having to do a full day of class for like seven or eight hours.
Then they get home and they have another several hours of homework, maybe you even have tests you have to study for on top of that, in other class are long-term projects, you're also probably going to have to be pressured into doing some kind of extracurricular or sport because you're supposed to branch out and things like that.
And besides just your academics, there's other things that people want to do with their lives, like we're talking about younger people who want to be able to enjoy their lives, enjoy their childhoods, not worry about constantly being stressed about homework assignments and the like.
So I think that the mental toll that this takes on kids, the mental health aspect of this, is huge.
But even beyond that, it also obviously can have a detrimental impact on literal physical health because when you're constantly stressed, when you're not able to exercise because you're too busy doing work every day when you get home, when you're losing sleep, which is incredibly important, because you have to stay up late at night getting your assignments done, all of these things have huge impacts on your physical health as well, which is really not good for kids.
And I also think that it makes learning less effective, because when kids come to class tired because they were up all night doing homework, or when kids are so overloaded and overworked that their brains aren't really processing information all that well, or when kids have so much to do that their focused on on simply memorizing content, memorizing dates and facts and figures, or like biochem things, instead of actually trying to learn and understand and grapple with the real educational aspects of it, the result is that you get people who may be able to pass a homework assignment, complete an assignment, pass a test and get a good grade, but people who aren't actually learning and retaining content because they're constantly overworked and overstressed and have to worry about moving on to the next thing and getting everything done as quick as possible just so it's bearable.
So I really don't think that the absence of homework would be all that detrimental.
By and large, you should be able to learn in class.
If you're not able to learn everything given that going to class is functionally what a full-time job is in terms of the number of hours that you put into it, so if you really can't learn something in like thirty five hours a week, if if that's not enough time for teachers to get concepts and that you need to do like like fifty hours or sixty hours of work to get a point across, then maybe we should reconsider the way in which we're actually educating people.
Oftentimes, less is more.
People will be less stressed, people be more willing and able to learn, and for all those reasons, we should abolish homework.