Abstinence only sex education absolutely should not be mandatory.
If anything it should be gutted all together and there's a lot of reasons for this.
First and foremost, the main underpinning of abstinence only educate sex education is that it actually works.
The problem is it doesn't work at all and anywhere that actually tries to there's like a mountain of evidence where anywhere that has abstinence only education you don't really prevent people from having sex you just prevent people from having safer sex and sex without the possibility of pregnancy which is bad.
So first and foremost, people have emotions.
People like other people and people are going to have sex with people because that's what people do and that's what people have done for all of history and despite a bunch of idiots trying to like change that, they're not going to be very successful with that.
So what that ultimately means is that when you have abstinence only sex education you don't teach people about contraceptions.
You don't teach people about condoms.
You don't teach people about STDs or STIs and you don't teach people about other things like that.
So the first result of that is that it's literally like a health related crisis because it prevents people from being properly educated about the possibilities of STDs and the way in which you can safely prevent the spread of those.
So that's obviously very bad.
Additionally, it's also bad for just like the matter of pregnancy because it makes it more likely that you're going to have an unwanted pregnancy because you haven't learned about contraception, you haven't learned about a lot of those things.
So it becomes more likely that you're going to have an unwanted pregnancy and you're going to have to either get an abortion or you're going to have to put the child up for adoption or you're going to have to take care of a child that you weren't prepared for which is obviously a very bad.
All of those options aren't great.
And certainly the last one is quite right bad and the all of these things additionally have a very bad economic impact because they have a bad economic impact about like it just increases public health spending as more and more people get sick and it also increases a lot of like spending and economic drains by making it so that a lot of people are tied down in their lives because now they have to take care of a dependent and they weren't prepared to do that.
So it's in a lot of ways very limiting of economic opportunities especially for women.
So that's something that's very bad.
I also think in a lot of ways that's like a violation of rights because it's basically the state not giving people the tools that they need to be empowered in their lives and in a lot of ways like having like being forced into motherhood is incredibly taxing on women and it really changes their life.
The final thing that I want to talk about is the like moral element of this because I think it's absolutely ridiculous but even if you think that abstinence only is like from some vague moral premise, the best thing that you want to do since it's not since if you believe that then you probably also believe that abortion is bad.
So abortions are going to be less likely if people practice safe sex and use contraception but even if that's not the case, obviously the like empowerment of women, public health crises, economic growth, all of those things are more important than vague, outdated ideas of morality.
So for all of those reasons, absence only sex education should not be mandatory.