We should not ban tattoos because it's a violation of people's right to do what they want with their bodies and because people can have pretty good reasons for getting tattoos.
But, let's start with an overview about what the context of this debate is because, obviously, we can, on opposition, defend things short of an outright ban of tattoos.
We can obviously regulate tattoos, whether it's ways such as age restrictions or maybe even certain kinds of tattoos.
So, like, known gang-related tattoos or tattoos that could be like have some other kind of problematic connotation could be regulated such a way, maybe have certain kind of safety protocols in place that like regulate establishments that give tattoos, or require licenses, or things like that, are all like fine regulations that you could have to make sure that there's only limited problems.
But beyond that, I definitely think that getting a tattoo is something that you should have the right to do if you want to.
So, why?
I think that our bodies are one of the ultimate things that we should have control over.
And if there's anything that we have like, say, a property claim to, anything that is really just ours to do what we want with, it's our literal body, because there's nothing really like more deeply important to you and nothing more personally connected to you than your literal body.
So that's why when things like abortion come up and and it can be so upsetting to a lot of women when they don't have the right to choose what they want to do with their body, it's because it's the idea that you should be able to have control over your body and and do what you want with it for the most part.
But beyond that, I also think that there is a freedom of expression claim here to be made because tattoos are definitely a way in which you can express yourself, whether you want to get a tattoo about a political message to portray a way in which you believe, or maybe it's like of a loved one that passed away and you want to like express your appreciation for them.
There's all kinds of ways in which tattoos are a form of expression, and expression is definitely something that should be protected deeply because it's a way in which we , as individuals, essentially set ourselves aside from the pack.
It's really key to what allows us to have an individual identity, but it also is a fundamental right cause it allows us to possibly like organize around various principles and also just express what we believe in.
But, obviously, there's a lot of legitimate reasons why people may want to get tattoos anyway.
I already mentioned, for example, that you may want to do something related to a political message, which is definitely a legitimate reason.
You also may want you like memorize a loved one or something like that.
Maybe you even just want to do it about something like funny, like a funny TV show that's deeply meaningful to you.
That's all a fine reason, and this is especially true when you look at it in context in that nobody really gets hurt when you get a tattoo.
Tattoos aren't hurting anyone else.
The most they could do is possibly hurt you, and the most that could really realistically happen is maybe you'll regret the tattoo eventually, but that's really not a very good reason why you should just outright ban tattoos and not let anyone get them ever.
So for all those reasons, don't ban tattoos.