We should introduce school vouchers.
And we should introduce school vouchers because they're both better for the individual children and because I think that they can have positive impacts on the educational system more broadly as well.
So first, let's start by talking about why school vouchers are good for individual children.
I think that this is like a pretty obvious argument and even something that the biggest opponents of school vouchers acccept, and that is that for the individual child who is getting the school voucher, you're giving them an entirely different possibility in their life.
When you give them the school voucher and they're able to go to a much better school than they would have been otherwise, since these are often used in areas that have failing public schools, you're giving this individual child a real opportunity to have a different future.
People say that education can be like the silver bullet for solving things like poverty and cycles of poverty and and crime and things like that, because when you're better educated, you simply have so many more options available to you.
When you have better teachers, when you have better facility access, when you have a better a likelihood of getting into college, all of these things impact your future employability, your future career earnings, it impacts your life an incredibly profound ways.
So it's really not possible to undersell how important it is to an individual child to get his voucher.
So I think that in terms of just like what is going to be the best outcome for the children who are like getting these vouchers, it's very clear that giving them these vouchers is better than not.
So the only real thing to compare this to is what are the possible outside harms?
What are the harms this could have on other people in the education system, and what are the harms this could have on the education system as a whole?
So, the first thing that I want to look into here is that I think that we should look with a great deal of skepticism.
All of the people who say, " oh, well, if we send all of the money out of the public education system, then we're simply not going to have enough money in the public system to actually make sure that it's functioning. "
But there are several problems with this, most notably that we've been funneling so much money into the public education system for decades, and we haven't really seen a whole lot of results to show from it.
It's not because some some of the government's money is being funneled into charter schools, doesn't change the fact that like, in washington DC, for example, or other kinds of places where you still see massive spending on public education, but it's really not doing that whole a whole lot.
And and like a as a secondary point under that, we oftentimes see a lack of ability to really make the deep and systemic changes that a public education system that we need.
We've lacked the ability to really significantly increase teacher pay.
We really lack the ability to significantly revolutionize curriculums.
We've lacked the ability to really make it so that schools are actually like great environments to learn in.
And all of these problems are incredibly deep, and I don't think that just having a couple more individual people getting access to public educations versus charters versus a a like a private school is really going to actually change the system all that much.
I think a much better way to look at it is maybe the public education system should get its house in order and it should be funded properly obviously, but it needs to get its own house in order before we start condemning individual children to not really all that great outcomes in it.
So for all of those reasons, we should definitely have school vouchers.