We should end mandatory retirement, because it is absolutely a form of age based discrimination, and that is just on face entirely unjust.
So, let's talk about what this looks like.
I think that it's important to note that, people obviously do not age in the same way, in that well, clearly some people get alzheimer's, or become like less physically capable of doing various tasks, or are they just do, you even if they're still capable, they just do those tasks slower.
Obviously some of these things are true of some people, as they age, however, this certainly isn't true of all people.
There's a lot of people who are, maybe, just biologically lucky, and they don't have a lot of these problems, and there's also a whole lot of people who actively put in a whole lot of effort, to like take care of their body, specifically so they can keep working, and specifically so they stay healthy.
And I think that when you force these people into retirement, you're taking away a lot from them, you're taking away their ability to enjoy their livelihood, you're you're paternalizing their choices about the basic way, in which they want to live their life.
You're basically forcing them into like the final stages of their life.
And, I think that this is a real problem.
I think that this is especially a problem when you look at this as terms of scale, given that we live in a society, where people are able to live for longer and longer periods of time, you're talking about how you're sentencing these people to, essentially, retire, when they may have thirty years left to live.
They may have forty years, or even fifty years left to live.
So I think that, this is a huge problem, because I think that first and foremost, as far as like profit is concerned, as far as like wanting to make a living is concerned, if people want to keep working, so they can make more money, whether it's so, like, they want to like give more money to like their descendants, or they just want to make more money, so they have more money to spend on luxuries, because you know, when you're seventy years old, you probably want to take that extra nice vacation, or buy that nicer thing, or whatever or a nicer new car.
You may just want to you want have extra money to spend on these kind of luxuries, that you've probably earned throughout a lifetime of work, and you want to make the choice of working longer to pay for those kinds of things, or maybe you just feel that, for you personally, retirement kinda sounds boring, and that you enjoy your work, you enjoy what you're doing with your life, you think that it gives you some more value, and some more meaning to society, and I think that's incredibly important to note too.
And, it makes you feel part of something, and I think that this is incredibly disrespectful to the people, who have worked their entire lives, to then just say: once you reach this certain arbitrary cut off point, once you reach this arbitrary date, then suddenly your value becomes zero, then suddenly you become a drain, a drag, and in order to make sure that like, that economic profits of a company are being protected, or maybe to ensure that there's no kind of like liabilities or accidents, which you can probably just regulate on the individual level, you're just going to throw all that away to force people to retire.
I just don't think that's right, and therefore we should and mandatory retirement.