This house would not subsidize embryonic stem cell research because it's unnecessary, it's private funding is perfectly sufficient, and politicizing its funding is a bad idea.
So let's start by talking about why it's not particularly necessary to subsidize embryonic stem cells and the biggest reason is that you can subsidize non embryonic stem cells or some other kind of similar alternative that doesn't require you to use embryos for your research.
And that would probably be a lot more politically popular, a lot more politically feasible so you get a lot more money out of it.
You could therefore also get a lot more stable funding and all things that would be pretty good.
So that alone is a pretty good reason to not fund embryonic stem cells.
You can just find alternatives.
In fact a whole lot of in the status quo a lot of stem cell research is not embryonic so you don't necessarily even need to be relied on that.
There's like adult stem cells in a lot of organs and various like tissues and things like that so you could subsidize that kind of research.
But additionally, as far as it's necessary to use embryos for your stem cell research you can probably rely on private funding or nonprofit funding or university funding for things like this because there's a whole lot of like public good admittedly in some of these kinds of things but because of the kind of profit industry that we see in medicine, in american society it's very likely that there is a whole lot of private research and university level research going on to these kinds of solutions.
So you probably can rely on them to do sufficient embryonic stem cell funding.
The next thing though is what are the direct political problems of embryonic research stem cell research being funded by public subsidies?
I think that this is always going to be something that is notoriously unpopular because people, for some reason, think that fetuses that are never going to be alive ever have more right rights that are more important than possible lives that are being saved.
So because people feel that way stem cell research is always going to be unpopular and therefore it's always going to be the subject of debates, the subject of being having his funding slashed, the subject of its funding being restricted and things like that.
Now all that is bad because when you're doing scientific research it's probably pretty important to make sure that your budget is stable so you can keep doing your research consistently, so you don't suddenly have to cancel research projects, it's probably pretty important to make sure that your funding is going to be like well known so you can plan projects in advance, and these are all things that are pretty incompatible with political spending.
So I think that it's not all necessarily going to be very good even if you're able to get some funding.
You're probably not going to be able to get funding that consistently or at a good level so that's going to be just another reason why it's a bad idea to subsidize embryonic stem cell research.