We should not fight the BDS movement because the BDS movement can be an incredibly powerful tool to push for social justice in the israeli-palestinian conflict and is something that , if not something that should be supported, certainly isn't something we should actively fight against.
So let's start by trying to identify what there's a what our core problem is in the israeli-palestinian conflict right now.
And I think that that core problem is an ability or a luxury, on israel's part, to have complacency in its in in its execution of the conflict and trying to get a peace agreement with the palestinians.
So, I happen to have a good deal of family in israel, and I think that most people who live in israel would agree that , by and large, things are pretty going things are going fairly well there.
Most the country is fairly well-off economically, it's a pretty like liberal and progressive place in a lot of ways, life is pretty good there in a lot of ways.
And while sometimes it's not most secure place in the world, there is obviously threats of attacks sometimes, oftentimes israel is, by and large, a fairly safe place, a fairly well-off and wealthy place, and it has the luxury of not really needing to change all of its behaviors all that much.
Because reality is is that the israeli-palestinian conflict has been going on for well over fifty years, and the the six-day war in nineteen sixty seven that resulted in the that began when israel started occupying the west bank and east jerusalem, it's been essentially the same situation more or less for fifty years.
And if israel was able to survive in this situation for all that long, then israel will probably be able to keep the situation up, keep the status quo up indefinitely.
So that presents a problem on the part of the palestinians because, obviously, the palestinians are not doing very well-off in the status quo.
There is a good degree of well there's widespread poverty.
There's widespread ability to access a whole lot of basic services like healthcare, especially if you live in the gaza strip and not the west bank, life is oftentimes incredibly bad for palestinians, and that doesn't even get into the fact of whether people should just have the right to self-determination.
People should just have the right to self-government.
So this creates a problem because israel is able to keep keep doing what it's doing forever, and that presents a on the part of palestinians.
So, if you want to try to pressure israel to change and actually make it so that it does something, you have to make it so that israel isn't able to just deal with the status quo and keep doing what it's doing forever.
So a good way to do that is apply pressure.
And you can apply pressure in multiple ways, but the good thing about the BDS movement is, for starters, it's a non-violent way to apply pressure.
A traditional an unfortunate traditional way that pressure gets applied in the palestinian-israeli conflict is extremist groups and sometimes even government officials, in fact, oftentimes government officials are willing to directly advocate for violence, especially if they're like a part of like hamas or some kind of extremist group, or they are very willing to advocate for violence as the solution to apply pressure to israel.
BDS something different.
It applies boycotts, investments, and sanctions much in the same way that in like places like south africa or places in like america during the civil rights movement, when you wanted to push for social change, it's done in a in a more constructive and nonviolent way.
So, clearly, when it's a in a comparison to other tactics that could possibly be used to try to pressure change, it's definitely the best of all possible worlds, of how you want to go about in conducting this kind of change.
But I also think that it can be a much more effective change because violence tends not be very effective, because violence is going to beget more violence and , it necessitates violent response on the part of israel, while on the other hand, economic pressure on a wealthy country that doesn't want to lose wealth, and international actors putting pressure on in a country like israel that wants to be included in the international community, I think could be an effective way to try to pressure change.
So for all those reasons, we should not fight the BDS movement.