We should not abolish open primaries in the US because open primaries are vital to actually making sure that you get representative politicians in place.
And I think that the first thing that we should do is we should look at what the point of political parties is.
I think that the point of political parties is for them to represent their constituents, and the worst offenses for political parties, as far as I'm concerned, is when they don't actually respond to their people, when party elites are more willing to control the process and actually decide like who let the people decide who should be in positions of power.
And I think that, in a way, having open primaries dilutes the process to actually make sure that the people who are the base of a political party are picking the people in charge.
And let's break down why this is likely.
For example, you can look at a not particularly competitive blue blue district, so like a liberal district where it's very likely the democrat is going to win.
If you have a lot of independents or conservatives, there might not even be a republican running.
If they want to, they would probably just vote for a more conservative option or a more centrist option in the democratic primary.
But meanwhile, the base overall may want a more liberal option, and they may feel that that's more representative of their values.
And I think that it's incredibly unfair that you would say , in the name of openness, that you're going to deprive people who are actually members of the party of getting their choice of representation in the party, and I don't think that that's right.
You should make sure they're actually doing what is best for the party and best for their constituents and not just try to push people towards the middle.
You should make sure that you're actually standing up for your values and things like that, and that's obviously an incredibly important thing.
But I think it's also important to point out that this isn't exactly a very high burden, because you can change your registration whenever you feel like doing it.
It takes time but usually it's free.
I imagine in I'm pretty sure in almost all cases it's free.
So if you don't if you do you want to vote in a primary for some reason or another, you're more than welcome to change your voter affiliation.
It doesn't really take all that much more effort than actually going to a voting booth or sending in a mail-in ballot.
Usually you just have to go online and do it.
Like I like florida is notoriously difficult and has closed primaries, and I was able to register as a democrat online.
It's not all that difficult to do.
So if this was actually a major problem, there's rather easy solutions to fix it.
So for those reasons, we should not abolish open primaries in the US.