We should abolish zoos, because they are both inherently immoral, and it is impossible to get rid of the structural incentives for zoos to do immoral things that, are akin to torturing animals.
So, let's start by talking about why zoos are inherently immoral.
Keep in mind that, first I think that zoos are, as far as comparison is concerned, not very important to people.
Keep in mind that zoos are not necessary for people, they exist purely for our entertainment and our amusement.
They do not fill any real need whatsoever, and therefore, all their moral value is limited to the fact they cause a basic level of human pleasure.
So, I think that that, quite clearly, is of a lower degree of moral weight, than actual pain, actual suffering, and actual loss, if that loss exists.
So, let's talk about animals.
Keep in mind that first, most animals do experience emotions, most most animals experience pain, they experience loss, they can experience these kinds of things.
Most animals also are able to recognize that they are essentially trapped in a cage, that they don't have as much space to roam as they naturally would in the wild.
A lot of animals are not maybe necessarily even captive bred, that they were taken out of the wild, and they essentially go into states of shock, all of these things are incredibly harmful for animals.
The fact they could be separated from their family, habitats, they oftentimes can be too small, all these other kinds of things.
So, why are all these things structurally incentivized in the worst way possible?
A few reasons: first and foremost, there's always going to be an incentive to make sure that, the habitats are going to be on the smaller size, and the habitats are going to have less places for animals to actually do their own kinds of things freely.
Because keep in mind that, the point of zoos, and the way in which zoos make money, is the animals have to be visible.
So the in order for the like the animals to be visible, it can't be such a big enclosure, where the animal can just kind of go into hiding, there can't be places where the animal can hide, otherwise the purpose of the zoo is lost, you're just kind of looking at an empty enclosure.
So, there's going to be structural incentives in place to make sure that the animals are always going to be on display, that the animals can always be gaped and gawked at, and I think that this means that the there are necessarily are incentives in place to make sure that the habitats are small, that the habitats don't have maybe as many places for shelter, or things like that for the animals, and it forces them to be on display.
I think that additionally, besides just like the enclosures themselves being problematic, there's also incentives for the kinds of animals being problematic.
Because, people don't go to zoos to see like armadillos, or bugs, or like crabs, or things that are on like the lower level of like, coolness, as far as animals are concerned.
People go because they want to see guerrillas, they go because they want to see elephants, they go because they want to see whales and lions, because they carry more of because they're like more complex but also more exotic, and interesting animals to like observe in a lot of ways.
So that's a big problem, because these are the animals that have the most to lose by being trapped in an enclosure.
They're the ones that most need the larger spaces.
They're the ones that, are most emotionally complex to suffer from the loss of being separated from family members.
They are the ones that most have the natural instincts to, like, hunt, or things like that, they're the ones that most are able to recognize the circumstances, that they're in, being a problem.
So, I think that the most degree of moral harm is going onto animals, who are having the most to lose, and I think that's something that's bad.
So for all those reasons, abolish zoos.