We should not cancel the affordable care act, also known as obama care, because the affordable care act has done remarkable good for millions of people in america, and it would be truly horrible if it was eliminated.
So let's start with what the status quo looked like before the affordable care act.
Because it's been almost like a decade by now so it's easy to it's easy to forget how bad things were in the way of health care.
Even if things aren't perfect now.
We existed, we lived in a world where insurance company would, not only could but affirmatively did for their profit motives, affirmatively discriminating against people who had pre-existing conditions, people who were sick, people who were older.
If you were a young person, younger person, or the start of your career, oftentimes struck with student debt and unable to afford healthcare, you were honestly not probably going to get all that much coverage.
You aren't going to get like watched over and you probably were going to just forego health insurance altogether, which would have been a horrible if catastrophes struck.
There was a massive hole between older people who qualify for medicare and the truly poorest people who qualify for medicaid, and a whole large like like millions of people, who weren't poor enough for medicaid and weren't old enough for medicare, but weren't provided insurance by their employers and couldn't and couldn't afford it on their own, were left out.
So millions of people would just opt not to have health insurance.
And cheaper publicly subsidized insurance exchanges, that came about because of the affordable care act helped combat that problem too.
And finally there was a stabilization of the insurance market.
And this was incredibly important because it made sure that there was a a functioning of the system all together.
It made sure that, things like the individual mandate, made it possible for people to actually have like a stable healthcare system.
So I think it's very important to look at this in the comparative.
Because when you cancel the affordable care act, especially now when you have republicans controlling all three branches of government and we see numerous attempts by republicans to try to repeal the affordable care act.
What you're really looking at is a comparative of a system of like a system that is not necessarily perfect, but one in which lessened the ability of insurance companies to discriminate, it made sure that younger people and poorer people and people in the middle were able to be covered by health insurance, it gave a more stable and cheaper options, it increased the quality of health insurance by making sure more important treatments were covered.
Obama care did a whole lot of good, and it did a lot of good for millions of people.
And that's really important when you compare it to alternative plans that would likely result in massive amounts of funding slashes for obama care and medicaid and other kinds of health insurance programs.
All things that would be catastrophic for real like real human lives, and come at a real human cost, in addition to obvious economic costs.
So for all those reasons we should not cancel the affordable care act.