We should fight sedentary lifestyles because sedentary lifestyles are simply bad for people.
They're most importantly they're not good for your health both your physical health and your mental health.
So let's break that down.
The reasons why sedentary lifestyles are bad for your physical health are obvious.
Like the nature of a sedentary lifestyle is you're not doing that much.
You're laying in bed most of the time.
You're sitting in a chair most of the time maybe you're looking at a screen most of the day and this doesn't necessarily mean that you're lazy.
A lot of people their jobs require them to sit at a desk looking at a screen and working with a screen all day.
A lot of people simply have lifestyles that aren't necessarily very conducive to physical activity but that's the very kind of thing that we should fight because there's a whole lot of really really bad harms.
The harms are obvious.
They can start with some of the very much long term harms that can be associated with people where if you're not like exercising you're more likely to get heart disease, you're more likely to suffer long term problems because your body is simply not built to basically not be doing anything the whole time.
It's not good for your body to be sitting around all day.
Obviously there is impacts on your short term health as well.
You could be maybe more likely to like get like sick, your immune system can get weaker, you can get like those headaches from like looking at computers for too long, things that can just hurt your lifestyle in a short term kind of a way in addition to a long term way deteriorating affect on your physical health.
But there's obviously a mental health element of this too.
There's incredible significant amount of research that just demonstrates that when you're going outside, when you're exercising, you're doing these kinds of things that simply make you feel better about yourself and make you happier and a lot of that just has its basis in biology in that people have existed like humans more or less have existed for millennia and they've been living active lifestyles by and large most of the time.
Most people didn't have the luxury of just sitting around.
There weren't screens to look at all days.
You probably weren't going to be at a desk all day for most of human history and this is why people are biologically wired not to just be inside all day in artificial light and all these kinds of things and it can have like a real impact on your mental health.
So fighting a sedentary lifestyle besides just like the physical health element will make you feel better.
You're more likely to be in shape and you're more likely to be happier.
So for all those reasons, we should fight the sedentary lifestyle.