We should not ban fishing because banning fishing would be very detrimental to a lot of people's health and people should be able to eat fish if they want to.
So let's start by talking about what exactly we have to defend.
Because we don't necessarily have to defend a world where you can just do whatever you want in the ocean, a world without regulation, obviously anything that goes short of a ban.
So maybe you can put caps on the degree, on the numbers of fish that you can catch in the wild, so maybe if you're like concerned about like atlantic salmon levels or maine lobsters or something like that you can put a limit on the degree to which you can harvest them.
You can also maybe put more requirements in place on locations, maybe establishing more marine wildlife refuges that restrict locations where you can finish.
But all of these things do not necessarily can be like or rather can be effective enough to combat a possible problems so that a ban isn't really necessary and a ban would actually be going to far.
So let's start by talking about why people should just eat fish often, especially fish in the wild.
Obviously fish can be very good for you.
There's several benefits of fish.
First and most notably fish can have a lot of nutrients that are good for you.
Nutrients like omega three fish oils, things that could be good for your health in a lot of ways.
But moreover fish can also supplement your diet in terms that it's lower fat protein that can therefore be good for all the reasons we need proteins to survive.
So you have fish like tuna which are much better than the alternative, especially on a comparative basis.
So if people are getting their protein from tuna instead of from say cows, not only is that just healthier for the person because it's lower fat more nutrient rich protein consumption, but it also oftentimes has a less detrimental impact on the environment.
Because even if over fishing is a problem and fishing from the wild is imperfect way of getting protein, when you look at it in the comparative we would probably rather people eat tuna then cows, given that it's like less resource intensive, it requires less like water less energy less feed, less , so all less of an ecological footprint.
So that's all good.
But moreover, even if that comparison isn't as apt, you still have to talk about what the comparison would be, which is factory farmed fish verses wild caught fish.
And obviously while caught fish are a whole lot better for you.
Oftentimes factory farmed fish can have a myriad of chemicals in them, oftentimes are used various growth hormones to speed up reproductive cycles and to speed up growth cycles, which can result in sometimes alarming impacts.
Whether it's alarming levels of mercury that you can see in fish or even impacts that like growth hormones could have on humans.
But moreover people should just be able to eat fish if they want to.
Oftentimes this is a matter of convenience.
A lot of areas it just makes more sense to eat fish.
If you like live in the bahamas or something like that, it's probably easier to catch fish for your diet than it is to like get cows.
Just based on like access to food resources.
Like maybe it doesn't make as much sense if you live in iowa but if you live in maine it's probably better to like get more protein from lobsters or fish than it is like fly in steaks from omaha or something like that.
So oftentimes access can play key role here especially when you're talking about developing countries.
But moreover fish is just tasty.
Fish taste good and people should be able to eat things in general if they taste good, especially given the that regulations can solve in a lot of instances.
So for all those reasons we should not ban fishing.