Big government should be abandoned because big government is less representative and less democratic and big government is also more ineffective at actually enacting policy.
So first why is big government less representative?
The obvious answer is that the smaller the government the more representative it can be because the policies can more particularly tailor the region.
So let's say that you have a big country like the united states of america and like forty five percent of the population wants one party and fifty five percent of the population wants another party.
If you have geographical concentrations of these kinds of things like for example the entire south votes for republicans or things like that while places like northeast tend to be more democrat, the problem that you see is that national policies get enacted by whichever party happens to win the majority but those are going to lead to a sweeping policies that aren't liked by huge swaths of the population with millions and millions of people.
But if you decentralize this more and you focus on communities and municipalities and the like you're definitely gonna be more representative because you're more likely going to be able to get an accurate depiction of what the people in that area are actually interested in.
And it also gives different areas opportunities to live their own lives in different ways as they see fit which is the main underpinning and principle of democracy that people get to choose how they live their lives and you should try to do it on a smaller level.
But you should also try to do it on the smaller level because of accountability reasons.
Because when you have smaller governments it's much more likely that are going to be accountable to you're needs and they're gonna be more accountable to your needs because first they just have less constituents to take care of so it's easier for them to focus on any individual communities of people but also because anger amongst their constituents is going to have more of an amplified effect.
So if a national government creates policies that are very bad for one state but good for a whole lot of others that's probably going to be very bad for that one state and that's not really fair to that one state.
But if more of the actions are happening on the state level with minimal big government happening then you can make sure that everyone is doing what they can to help themselves out the best.
But secondarily big government is ineffective and inefficient in enacting policy and the reason for that is because you're oftentimes dealing with such a large and diverse population with so many different interests it becomes very difficult to enact positive long term change because there is always going to be so much contentious issues about these kinds of things.
So for example it's a whole lot easier for us for save vermont to enact single payer health-care than it is for the united states of america because it's easier to implement solutions on a smaller scale on a smaller level where it's easier to get groups of people that are more likely to agree on things than the like.
But additionally it's also hard to do things on the bigger government because there's an out-sized media focus an outsized focus of people and an outsized focus on these kinds of things and so many different diverse issues that it just creates a lot of gridlock and strain on the system where so many different things are going on it's really difficult to focus on all the things that actually need to get done.
So what likely ends up happening is things don't end up happening and crucial issues remain unsolved.
So for all those reasons big government should be abandoned.