We should ban slum tourism because slum tourism doesn't actually do all that much good, it it creates a false image of actual help and only makes things worse and it is kind of degrading to a whole lot of the people who are actually being like toured essentially.
So let's start by talking about why I don't actually think that s; tourism is all that helpful.
Because the best case scenario is that people say that it creates awareness and people say that there is direct economic benefits of tourism blah blah blah.
Here's the problem: when you're talking about slums, especially nowadays when you're talking about oftentimes developing parts of the world, places in like sub saharan africa, poor places in southeast asia, you oftentimes talking about incredibly poor countries that and well and specifically incredibly poor parts of cities, that have incredibly high degrees of poverty.
Poverty that isn't even imaginable by the western standards that the people touring possess.
The fact that people live on pennies a day, if that at all, the fact that people are truly struggling and need incredibly amounts of help.
That they don't just need like the couple of dollars, at best, that they can make off of selling some trinket that you take home with you.
Because that's not real economic help and that's not sustainable.
That doesn't really put food on some of these tables and it doesn't make sure that like clean water is available, that medical treatment is available, that jobs are available.
Like these aren't realistic ways to actually fix an economy.
So you're really not doing all that much.
And I think that even if you are doing a little bit, which you're probably not, this is still creating a kind of economic dependency on essentially like western tourism that isn't necessarily all that great for an economy to actually like self sustain itself.
But I think that beyond beyond the like obvious not sufficient economic benefits, I think that this is actively harmful in a way that it makes people feel better about themselves by not actually fixing the problem.
Because I think that that's really what slum tourism is designed to do.
It's not really designed to actually help people, it's designed so that western people on the tour feel good about themselves, and they feel good about themselves essentially by slacktivism.
They are now more aware of the problem, and when you're aware of the problem you're doing things to solve a problem.
But I think that's a problem because those are very very different things.
And I think if you actually wanted to be helpful rather than just simply tour in a place, you would actually dedicate a significant amount of your time or a significant amount of your money to actually fixing the problem.
Or you would do some kind of public help job or you would actually lobby the a government to make some kind of meaningful change.
That's the actual way in which you actually help people's lives.
But realistically, when you're talking about slum tourism, it's basically just like a superficial look at a culture, a superficial look at the way in which things are operating, that isn't actually doing anything to help these people's lives.
So for all those reasons, we shouldn't allow slum tourism.