We should not ban gratuities because gratuities are something that a whole lot of people rely on and need pretty badly as supplemental income for the many people who work in the service industry.
But additionally we also shouldn't ban gratuities because it's a nice way to show your appreciation for the work that somebody does.
So let's start by talking about how banning gratuities would be very bad for american workers.
Because a whole lot of american workers who work in the service industries in particular don't necessarily make all that much money in fact in most places if you work in a job where it's possible for you to get tips you are legally allowed as an employer to pay someone below the minimum wage.
So obviously that's pretty bad and because employers and corporations and businesses are oftentimes at odds with the best interests of their workers then they often do get paid below the minimum wage so tips are things that are tips are oftentimes basically what people survive on.
It's an incredibly important source of income.
And that is a really big deal because we really shouldn't rely on corporations and businesses and employers to pay their workers fairly because we exist in a in a like capitalist culture where the political winds are always going to favor businesses having to do less and less for workers it's a general like like general capitalist culture we live in just favors businesses at the expense of workers.
So if you like end tips or you try to replace that with like stricter minimum wage laws or things like that odds are it's still not going to be as good because of the political culture and environment that we live in.
So being able to give like tips usually like twenty percent of whatever your bill is is a good way to make sure that people are getting supplemental income and like this applies to the vast majority of american workers.
So the next thing that I want to talk about is gratuities are tips are a good way to show your appreciation of the work that somebody did.
So if somebody like gave you like if someone was your waiter and they gave you excellent service or someone is like helping you move from one late like helping you move like your bed and your tables and things from one place to your new house these are people who are doing like good service to you and it's it's just like very nice to show your appreciation for the work you're doing in the form of a group and the form of a tip.
It's like a gift that you're giving them.
And it's also good besides just financially it's good because it makes these people working in these industries feel like they're doing some good they're helping people which could be like individually something that they enjoy feeling and they probably enjoy getting tips from people.
So for all those reasons we should not ban gratuities.