We should nationalize the energy grid because the current scheme of having private actors be in charge of our of a crucial part of national utilities has a myriad of issues and beyond that the public sector can simply do the job much better than the private sector can.
So let's start by talking about what are the problems with the private sector.
And the big place that they start is that something like utility companies, electricity is it's really a it's a natural monopoly.
You're not going to have like two sets of power lines, two two like separate and independent energy grids operating next to each other.
Because that's like incredibly inefficient, it's incredibly expensive and it simply doesn't make sense.
So energy grids, when they're privately run are are monopoly.
You as a consumer don't have a choice between the other private providers.
You have like you're only your one option.
So this comes with a lot of problems because this means that any problems in service or any problems in price or things like that, there's not a whole lot of accountability there.
If you're getting like like really really bad service from your electricity company, if like your electricity can be only inconsistent, if they keep raising the prices constantly so they can make more money off of you but you're not actually getting improvements in service, all of these things can be ways in which the private sector can abuse you when there's a monopoly.
Because there's no alternative.
You can't use the power of your wallet to go to a competitor, because there is no competitor.
You're trapped.
And it's not only people can just say: " well I'm not going to use electricity. "
It's not like people can say they're not going to use their refrigerators or their heat or their air conditioners or other kinds of things that are pretty much like vital to like life in a lot of ways.
It would be like saying like you can't really have , you can't not use these kinds of things.
So there's a huge amount of power there.
Beyond that I also think that the government can't effectively regulate the private sector and these kinds of monopolies.
Especially in countries like america where there's a lot of regulatory capture, because there's the revolving door where a lot of politicians and public sector workers end up getting these lucrative multi-million dollar jobs in the private sector afterwards where they can make tons of money off of energy, where big energy companies can spend like hundreds of millions of dollars on life on like lobbying governments, by donating to campaigns with like dark money in super packs, all other ways to make sure that like corporations can profit more off of people, at the expense of people and that politicians can make some money off that to.
So I really don't think that there is effective regulation of like a lot of these abusive practices either.
Finally, why can the public sector simply do these jobs a lot better?
It starts with direct accountability.
If the government does a bad job of if the government does a bad job running a public utility then you could directly change that.
You can raise taxes to give it more money, you can directly vote people out of office who are mismanaging the kinds mismanaging it, you can actually directly change and there is direct enforcement mechanism, the ballot box.
You don't have to like rely on like the on the whims of like of like oil or or electricity executives.
Beyond that there's no profit motive there.
So every dollar that's going into the pockets of ceo's of like of these of these monopolies is now going to go into infrastructure.
It's now going to go to lowering prices for energy.
So every dollar that is instead going towards like essentially that money is waste.
You don't need executives, you don't need all of those like managers of any kind.
So every dollar is now going to be able to go towards actually investing in the energy grid, making it more efficient, making it better.
So for all of those reasons we should nationalize the energy grid.