Open primaries are advantageous in the united states because they discourage hyper partisanship and they encourage more civic engagement amongst the population.
Two things that I think are very important: so let's first start by what do we think that the model means?
The what the motion means.
When the motion says that open primaries are advantageous we think that the most obvious interpretation is that there should not be closed primaries.
So states like my home state of florida or other states that practice with closed primaries they should stop doing that.
So let's start by talking about partisanship and why that's bad and why open primaries can help solve this problem.
The reason why partisanship is bad is because you first and foremost obviously get more extreme policy positions, policies that are less likely to be more broadly acceptable to the population and secondarily because even if you don't get more radical policies you're more likely not to get any policies at all because partisanship tends to lead to gridlock which means problems don't get solved, even basic problems like crumbling infrastructure or basic reforms of taxing and things like that.
So why do we think that open primaries help to solve this problem?
Because when party affiliation is required as for like a part of primaries, it means that people aren't going to have to like be as able to engage in primaries.
And this is like very very important because being able to participate in a primary is incredibly important, obviously primaries decide who's going to be able to run for president, so in many ways the scope of what the main national debates are, the scope of the main national elections that scope and that is decided by who is actually going to be involved in the primaries.
So if you're forced to, in order to pick people for president have a party affiliation this means that in a lot of ways in order to in order to actually get involved in that process you're going to have to necessarily become more partisan.
So this essentially limits it so that if you want to have a choice in what the scope of the debate is going to be, if you want to decide like the ideals that are actually going to be able to make it to a national platform, you're required to attach yourself to a party.
So that's like very that's bad.
Open primaries take this problem away because you don't have necessarily have a party registration in order to do that.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about the scope is about engagement about why we think this is more likely to be helped on our side of the house.
So obviously the united states has a problem with civic engagement.
Voter turnout rates in the united states are oftentimes very low compared to a lot of other developed countries and the reason why I think that this is very likely true well this is a problem obviously because this also means that duh policies are like just less representative, less democratic and less people are having their voices heard.
So why is it but why do open primaries make this more likely?
Make this problem more likely to go away?
Because there's a whole lot of people who are registered as independents or a whole lot of people who maybe have a third party registration or just a whole lot of people in general who don't have some kind of party affiliation.
And all of these people are excluded from the process.
These people aren't able to actually vote.
So for example you could have someone you could have someone who lives in a state like florida, they're registered independent or they're they oftentimes support a third party candidate.
But these people still have preferences as far as who should be running in the primary as far as who they want to win the primary because they are still able to vote in the national election so if they're planning on doing that so in a lot of ways this could just lead to like more discouragement.
If these people aren't voting in primaries or in like mid term election or things like that they're less likely to be invested in the system overall and if these people are less invested in the system overall then they may not be a they they may not be as likely to vote on like general election days either because they're not already more invested in the process.
So for all those reasons open primaries in the US are advantageous.