We should absolutely not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco because tobacco is bad and you shouldn't subsidize things that are bad.
But also because you can spend these hundreds of millions of dollars on literally anything else, literally anything else.
You can actually probably burn the money and it would be a whole lot better than subsidizing tobacco.
So, let's start by talking about why tobacco is bad and about why it's not worthy of our subsidy.
So first, tobacco kills people.
This is obvious.
There's like endless endless scientific evidence that smoking tobacco leads to lung cancer and all other kinds of bad health problems, cancer, all other kinds of bad things associated with it.
But it's also like addictive, it also costs like like tons of millions of dollars in healthcare spending that you otherwise won't have to do.
All of these things like are just huge drains that tobacco has on society.
It's addictive, it's like just very very bad, and it's not something that you should therefore be subsidizing the cultivation of.
It's not a livelihood that you want to be propping up.
Its if anything, something that you want to try to minimize in importance in society.
But, additionally, I also think that, besides tobacco just being bad it's not like tobacco farms or tobacco corporations need you to cultivate like subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Tobacco corporations are some of the like wealthiest corporations in the world, even if like a lot of the shares of people that like, even if the percentage of people that smoke in places like america are lower, they're still high in a lot of places in europe, they're still high in a lot of places around the world even.
Smoking is still very common and the consumption of tobacco is still incredibly common, so these people, like tobacco corporations, have like billions of dollars to their name, like billions and billions of dollars there.
They do not need the like funding, they do not need tax subsidies from taxpayers in order to prop up their businesses.
This is absolutely ludicrous, they can figure it out on their own.
It's a complete waste of money, but even if tobacco wasn't bad and even if tobacco corporations couldn't find out a way to like spend all these kinds of money on their own, it's also important to note that these hundreds of millions of dollars, a lot of money that could be spent on other better things, these hundreds of millions of dollars could be spent on like green technology to like help combat global warming.
It could be spent on infrastructure to help make like public transportation better or to help make like to help the economy by making like transportation quicker.
It can be used to help with like education or even healthcare spending to combat the risks of smoking.
All of these are things that could be like better investments for these hundreds of millions of dollars than tobacco.
So all of those things are incredibly important, but I finally want to talk about the fact that like why these subsidies probably like already exist because I think that there is not really even any reason for these things to still be on the books, cause a lot of reasons why if like tobacco subsidies exist are they're like more archaic laws that existed from a time when smoking was more and more common, so like maybe like farm subsidies like it's part of like a in the united states at least part of like a new deal era like subsidy packages to make sure that the livelihoods of individual farmers were secure.
But, a lot of these things like principally outdated because you don't have like these small average farmers whose livelihoods you need to protect anymore.
You have like a much more corporatized system so this is corporate welfare, not trying to prop up the individual livelihoods of people anymore.
So in a lot of ways, like even the original purpose of farm of like tobacco subsidies, isn't even really one that exist anymore.
So for all those reasons, we should not subsidize cultivation of tobacco.