We absolutely should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Keep in mind that the people who are involved in the tobacco industry, especially the farmers who benefit the most from subsidies, are people and farmers just like any other farmer, just like corn farmers or wheat farmers, and they often find these in fact in almost all liberal democracies receive some form of price controls or subsidies or another.
And I think that the reason for this is very straightforward.
They receive these kinds of farm subsidies, because farmers farming as an occupation is uniquely vulnerable, because there's possibilities of like wheather or natural disasters like cold or a storm, or pests or some other kind of thing destroying your livelihood.
Oftentimes farmers tend to be lower income workers, there's more economic insecurity there.
And additionally its it's also important to prop up farmers because it's almost a it's a form of like competitive pricing, in that it allows farmers to make sure that they can sell their price at a good that's going to be profitable.
So that makes sure that american farmers are, I guess in any country that's doing this kind of farm work, is able to actually make sure that its farmers are going to be competitive, that prices abroad aren't going to be able to undercut or overcut it, that you can make adjustments accordingly as global markets dictate and all those things, to make sure that you can't see an influx of overly cheap goods from other places, these other all kinds of like subsidies that make it cheaper to produce any kind of farm product are important to a national economy.
And we shouldn't pretend that tobacco is something different because even if like tobacco has some degree of like health harms or things like that, that isn't exactly relevant to the fact that the people who are doing the farming in the first place are still reliant on this for their livelihoods, and are still dependent on government support in this sense.
And I don't think it's very fair to those people to say, just because you're farming tobacco and not corn, you're not going to have the same economic security and the same security for your livelihood.
But additionally, I also think that this is very bad from a financial perspective.
Because the cultivation of tobacco, even if tobacco consumption is declining in places like america, it's still very much prominent around the world, and tobacco industry is obviously huge.
So, when you subsidize the tobacco industry and when you make it more likely to be solvent, you make it so that there's going to be it ensures a job market, so a lot of people are going to make sure they have their jobs kept.
It make sure that there is more economic prosperity associated with it, and it makes sure that your individual whatever government is subsidizing the industry, it makes sure that your industry is more economically competitive, and that you're going to be better able to maybe export your goods or satisfy domestic demands.
So for all of those reasons, we should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.