We should not ban partial birth abortions because partial birth abortions are still abortions that women should have the right to do and oftentimes partial birth birth abortions are necessary for women.
So, let's start by talking about what the reality is for women and abortion rights right now.
Across the country abortion rights are being restricted, abortion clinics are closing down, mandatory waiting periods are being instituted, and all other kinds of restrictions to make it harder and harder to get an abortion.
The crucial thing that these have an impact on is the availability of an abortion.
If you're a woman who wants to get an abortion, you may have to travel massive distances.
You may have to travel hundreds of miles, you may have to travel across state lines if you want to get an abortion as a woman.
It's probably not going to happen at a very convenient time so you may have to take time off work which isn't always possible for you.
If you're trying to get an abortion as a woman you oftentimes have to deal with things like mandatory waiting periods which may also increase the time of when you can get an abortion.
If you're a woman who's trying to get an abortion you may have to hide it from other people.
You may have to hide it from parents who would shun you or condemn you.
You may have to hide it from various people in your community and that may also restrict the times in which you can go to get an abortion.
And finally, getting an abortion is just a hard choice for women, so it's something that they can't just, it's not just something that a lot of people like come to the conclusion very easily.
Some people struggle with that decision.
So all of those reasons and more are reasons why sometimes getting an abortion takes a really long time and it can take you a couple of months in order to make it happen.
And that could result in people and that can result in abortions happening later in term than normal.
And that doesn't necessarily mean that the choice to get an abortion is an illegitimate choice, because just because it's happening a few weeks or a few months later doesn't mean that women's rights to their autonomy and it doesn't mean that the impact that motherhood is going to have that women's life is any less extreme.
It doesn't mean that women aren't going to end up being like just because the abortion happened two months earlier or two months later, these same realities are going to happen, that women are going to be possibly unprepared for motherhood financially, emotionally, that women are going to have their entire lives now tied down to a baby.
All of these kinds of all of the basic reasons why we want to make sure that abortions are cheap, safe and accessible to women in the first place, all of those factors are just as present, no matter when the abortion is happening.
So I don't really think that the time of the abortion itself is a particularly good standard.
Especially given that there is active there's active like like there's people who are actively trying to make it difficult to get an abortion specifically so you can't get it until it's already too late to get your abortion.
And that's seen as a tool essentially by like republicans and conservatives to combat abortion.
So for all those reasons, do not ban partial birth abortion.