Prenatal diagnosis does more good than harm for two big reasons.
First, it's better for the parents, and second, it's better for the possible future child in the long run.
So first, why is it better for the parents.
As far as financial costs are concerned, there is incredibly exorbitant ones oftentimes, and the reason for this is because people who have diseases or disabilities often require two things: they require specialized care and accommodations, and they require medical treatment.
Both of these things cost money.
In fact, both of these things often cost quite a bit of money.
For disabilities and diseases, especially ones that are less common, these can often have incredibly high healthcare costs, especially in places like the united states.
And additionally, oftentimes getting care or assistance, getting special equipment to deal with somebody, or getting a special person to watch over somebody who's qualified to look after somebody with disabilities, these can also be incredibly hefty expenses, expenses that first, a lot of people can't afford at all, and secondarily, it's also can be an expense that people just aren't prepared to invest, because people have the choice to make that that's a choice people can make with their lives, if they think that spending that much money and that much time is worth it.
And the next thing is the emotional costs that are put on parents.
Because it's important to consider that parents are real people, that they're not these infallible human beings that we should thrust moral obligations on too lightly.
They're regular people and while we should celebrate many parents who would be willing to give all of the love, care and support to somebody with disease and disabilities, a lot of parents simply just aren't the right kind of people to put that emotional energy into it, and simply will just feel drained and upset the possibly while doing that.
And we think that that's a legitimate thing that people should be concerned about.
If they simply do not think that they are the right kind of person that they can burden themselves with having to care for somebody, oftentimes possibly throughout their entire lives they might have to care for this person, that could be a burden that they're just not prepared to take, and it could be incredibly draining.
That's an important consideration, and therefore something that can be prevented by prenatal diagnosis.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is the impact this has on kids.
Because the problem is that oftentimes, existing in our society with a disability can be incredibly debilitating for you.
Oftentimes there's bullying and teasing towards people who look different or act differently, because they're because kids can just be mean or they don't have an understanding of what people's conditions often are, but additionally it can oftentimes be difficult in our society to find accommodations that are helpful.
It could be difficult to get the right education with if you have a learning disability.
It could be difficult to do things like walk upstairs sometimes if there's no elevator present.
There's a whole lot of things in society that just make it more difficult for you to exist in a lot of ways.
So I think that this could have a couple of pretty major impacts.
The first of which is that with especially with regards to the bullying and the teasing, you may feel this may increase your likelihood of mental illness, depression, a whole lot of other things there.
It could also oftentimes lead to social alienation or not being able to have as many friends.
But this also means that you're going to have your job and career prospects severely hurt, not for any fault of your own, but because we simply don't exist in a society that is prepared to accommodate, which is rather unfortunate but a sad truth.
Look, here is.
And the final thing that I want to talk about is the actual moral costs that this that this is accumulating, as a harm to conflict to what this could be.
Because obviously there are harms that are extant here.
But the problem is that we're not murdering anybody, I don't actually think that there's any real moral cost here, because I would say as a good standard as for whether or not you're actually accumulating a moral harm, it would would be the sentience of an actual actor, the the average sentience of a human being.
And since they're so young, it's the point of which they're not able to have any kind of sensory inputs at all, they can't eat, think, breathe, really do anything, I don't actually think that it's really even worthwhile considering someone at this such early stage of development as actually viable.
And therefore there's no real actual moral harm in possibly aborting this fetus during after the results of prenatal diagnosis.
And it's for all of those reasons we're incredibly proud to propose.