Mandatory retirement brings more good than harm for two big reasons.
First because there is a problem of aimless incompetence that often correlates with a greater age and secondarily because it restricts the ability for it makes it harder for younger people to find jobs, it hurts labor markets participation for younger people.
So let's first start by talking about ableness and competence.
There's two obvious components that that any kind of job can require.
It can require you to engage in like physical labor some kind of like physical activity that requires you to do physical work or secondarily a job can require you to make use of your mental functions or cognitive functions.
Oftentimes you're required to do both.
You're at the very least always required to do one or the other.
Now this presents a problem because as you age one or both of these is very likely to deteriorate.
Obviously physical obviously older people are more prone to physical injury like bones deteriorate, you're more likely to get injured, you're more likely to get sick or other kinds of ailments but you're also more likely to experience like some kind of cognitive stains like you could just do work slower.
It may take your reaction time can slow down.
You may end up developing alzheimer's, things like that.
These are real harms that make it a lot harder for you to do your job.
Now you may be saying aha but that's fine people will be able to realize that and then they'll just retire and everything will be great.
But the problem is is that's not always the way that this works out.
Oftentimes the individual likes to put more confidence in themselves.
Individuals usually over estimate their ability to do any kind of particular task.
Further they're further more likely to do that when the conclusion is unpleasant.
People don't want to be too old to do a job that they've possibly be doing for a long time.
People don't want to feel like accept that maybe their cognitive skills aren't as sharp as they used to be.
It's a very difficult thing for people to accept.
Maybe for some people but not for others.
And I think that this is the more important group to identify by mandatory retirement because obviously some people are going to retire optionally anyway but mandatory retirement makes sure that all groups of people are going to experience in the same way.
This is further necessary because it's oftentimes illegal to retire, it's oftentimes illegal to fire people on the basis of simply age or something like that.
So because that's just like age based discrimination which you can't exactly do in terms of firing somebody.
So without this law in place it's very likely that it would be difficult to fire people for possibilities of like not being able to do their job as well.
But the second thing that I want to talk about is youth labor participation.
So the way in which job structures work especially if you tend to stay in the career in which you've been in for awhile is as you gain more experience in a given field and as people you tend to get like more promotions and it oftentimes it's like a job hierarchy or like a ladder in that what as you get more and more experience, you're more likely to get more promotions or better jobs within that sector however there's obviously limited jobs in each sector so at each level if people aren't constantly moving on, if people at the top rungs aren't retiring at one point then people the next rung aren't going to be able to move on and so on and so forth.
So this creates a problem especially nowadays where life expectancies are becoming a whole lot longer and people are trying to work a whole lot later.
You see that it becomes very difficult for a lot of younger people to find jobs and the reason for this is because is because there is much like higher rates of employment amongst like older people, amongst like younger people so when you have like older people that are working a job at a supermarket, for example, that's a job that can't go to a younger person and this is, in a lot of ways, very bad because younger people don't have access to a lot of the same social safety nets and services that older people do.
They're not able to get access to medicare or social security or a whole lot of other things.
So oftentimes younger people are more dependent on those jobs but additionally it's also just more important for younger people to get started on jobs so they can get their career going in a lot of in in that sense.
For all those reasons there should be a mandatory retirement age.