We should not legalize doping in sports because legalizing doping in sports would be quite a problematic thing to do for a number of reasons: first it's problematic for athletes' safety.
The most important thing in sports is making sure that the people who make all of the entertainment possible, the people who meet the entire business possible, the people who make the fans happy, week in and week out, that they're as safe as possible, given that sports are inherently dangerous, and that you don't want to create an unhealthy environment where people feel pressured to take to, people feel pressured to take on a competitive advantage even at the health, at their own possible health or safety and those risks.
And I think that it's quite problematic when you put athletes in a position where they should choose greater financial success, greater success in their sport over of their own safety and their own and their own bodily integrity.
And when you legalize doping in sports, that's the decision that you're giving athletes.
Because once it becomes legal and once people can start doing it, everyone is realistically going to have to do it in order to get ahead.
And that creates like this huge problem.
Because doping just isn't safe.
There's a reason why we don't allow doping.
It's just it's not just because of the like vague ideas of cheating and integrity of the sport.
It's because it's actively seen as dangerous to the health and safety of athletes, and this is something that we shouldn't incentivize, encourage or have people be responsible for.
When you're taking steroids it can mess up like your natural testosterone levels, it can mess up the way in which your body develops, you can mess up the process of aging, it can mess up the it can make you like more prone to injuries, there's all different kinds of ways in which it's incredibly unsafe to do doping.
So if you care about protecting athletes and their health, then you should definitely not legalize doping.
But beyond that I also think that legalizing doping in sports would be absolutely horrendous from a financial and optical perspective.
Because whether it's legitimate or not, most people, most fans, most of the media, most commentators and most people in sports look at doping is a form of cheating.
And look at it is destructive to the integrity of the sports, and, and it like undervalues the natural athletic prowess that you're supposed to get out of sports.
And this is a really big problem because most people are going to look at sports as being now run by doped people who just dope, people who are like essentially cheating or under valuing the integrity, whether or not that's a legitimate perspective, it's the majority perspective, which means that people are probably not going to like sports as much, people probably won't enjoy sports as much.
So that means that sports become a less prominent part of our society.
It means that sport become less profitable, which is obviously bad because it means that like athletes don't get paid as much, and it's like less of a feasible business.
But it also means that the enjoyment of sports just isn't going to be the same for the average fan and that there's going to be a kind of uneasy feeling when you're watching somebody and you know that their doping, you know that they're cheating.
So for all those reasons, we should not legalize doping in sports.