We should abolish intellectual property rights because intellectual property rights do a tremendous amount of social harm.
So I want to start by talking about the problem the big problem of intellectual property.
Because the first thing is that intellectual property is everywhere.
Every time you look at a logo.
Every time you look at a symbol.
Every time you look at a song.
Every listen to a song anytime you watch a movie anytime you look at a work of art anytime you use any kind of product that has some kind of innovation to it so whether it's like some kind of formula in your tooth paste some kind of like algorithm in like a a phone calculator some kind of like like process that is used to create like a micro a computer chip literally like a like the patents and intellectual property and things like that are everywhere.
So when you're doing this what is the big problem?
When you have some kind of patent or when you have intellectual property over something you create a true monopoly over something.
If you were the an inventor of that thing and you like and whatever that means that you're have like a true monopoly over it because now you can literally take legal action against anyone who tried to create an alternative or something similar to your product.
And that creates a big problem because it gives you a total monopoly which means that you can charge whatever you want.
And oftentimes when this is something that is an innovation this means that this product can be incredibly expensive and it can be pricing out a whole lot of people.
The most basic example of this being present is when you look at something like the pharmaceutical industry.
When you look at a product that is oftentimes incredibly important and demand is incredibly inelastic because people need drop like people need medicine regardless similar to the way that like people need like technology nowadays regardless people need a whole lot of things were taught irrespective the price.
So that's important because that means that people can literally charge the most exorbitant prices and price out a whole lot of poor people that need it or it can make but like the public funding of something incredibly difficult to do.
Now that's a huge problem because this means that people truly actually get harm because of this.
If people have less access to technology people have less access to innovation.
People have less access to life saving medications or people simply get less enjoyment because they're not able to you even afford music like on a basic level.
Like these are kind of like really basic things that I think are like govern the way people live their lives and it's a really sad thing and I think that when you don't have intellectual property rights and you allow more people actually access to good it's obviously going to do a whole lot more good to society and I think that's like an incredibly important thing.
And intellectual property isn't like the only thing that you need to do to incentivize creation of things like you can give you like like you can do things like require the licensing of generic alternatives and give people profits for that maybe like a licensing fee or something like that.
And just regulate it you can give people money like based off of the social impact that they give like there's like a lot of things like social impact on the social impact investing in things like that.
These aren't necessarily like unheard of things that you can do.
There's definitely there's definitely alternatives or you can just try to foster like a more collaborative system so when you're talking about things like technology innovation for example oftentimes these things can be done with like open source alternatives and it can be done in a more collaborative sense that's going to be more accessible to people.
So I think that a lot of context it's not just necessarily like the like oh like a dichotomy of having something verse not having something and having to deal with the like harms of intellectual property.
I definitely think that there are alternatives that exist and I think that there's a whole lot of social good that comes out of a abolishing intellectual property so for those reasons we should abolish it.