Year-round schooling is an absolutely awful idea because at the end of the day, it is pretty marginal.
I don't think that the status quo actually has all that much harm for schooling in the way that people are able to learn, but I do think that this comes with a great cost in that it's going to destroy the value of summer.
It's going to destroy in a lot of ways a vital part of the human experience and an incredibly memorable part of probably almost everyone's childhoods.
So, I want to start by talking about that, about the value of summer, because I think that in a lot of ways this is the most important thing that we can look at when we're talking about what we should be doing best for younger people.
When you think about the best memories that you've had in your life, it could be possibly like a summer fling that you had with a girlfriend or a boyfriend or someone.
It could be the fun and relaxing nature of a summer, the like warmth, the freedom, the sports, all of those things, the friendships, all of those things make summer an incredibly special time in the lives of school children around the world.
And I think that this is incredibly important because these are ultimately the valuable things that you remember in your life.
These are the things that make your childhood memorable and enjoyable, and I think that it's important that this therefore happens during a summer stretch, because it's woefully insufficient to just have a couple of week-long breaks where you can do this.
I think that the length, the totality of freedom that you get with a summer vacation, the degree to which you can just jump into an entirely different activity, degree to which you can travel or do whatever it is you're going to do, that gives you a unique opportunity to truly get the most out of life when you are young.
And I think that that is in a lot of ways infinitely more important, infinitely more important than a lot of the things that they can try to talk about on your side of the house.
Because ultimately, we need to look at what the the value of what makes a life worth living.
And I think that what makes life worth living, at its core, are the positive experiences that we have, and summer just uniquely provides a whole lot of these positive experiences.
So it's very important that we make sure we maintain it.
So the next thing that I want to talk about are about some of the marginal costs that are allegedly the like alleged marginal costs that can be associated with this.
I first of all think that it's dubious at best to associate summer with like a socioeconomic status or class or things like that.
First, if anything, I think that this is actually more harmful for the government's side because you're not going to be able to have summer jobs now, or try to seek out summer employment as an extra way to make money.
You're certainly a lot of people are too busy during the school year to get jobs, and further on top of that, you're not going to be able to get that job for like the one week one week of vacation that you get every other month or things like that.
So I think that that's uniquely precluded and summer jobs are important as a source of income, and that's more directly meaningful than the vague, amorphous, " oh, someone went to chess camp or math camp or whatever. "
But the other thing is that I don't really think that this is even all that true or all that impactful, like I'm not going to pretend that maybe some people don't go to science camp.
But like smart people and rich people, their children also do enjoy the fun aspects of summer, like they still enjoy going to sports camps and playing sports or things like that, or going to a pool or going to the beach.
These aren't exactly concepts that they don't enjoy or concepts that like things that they're not willing to put their time into.
So I don't think there's a whole lot there either.
But the final thing I want to talk about is the marginal nature this has on the actual ability of people to learn, and I really think that this is actually just important.
Like what is the consequence of this, " oh, you're going to have to spend one week reviewing old material.
Oh no, what a nightmare.
We should all just throw our hands up and like have a year-long school year. "
It just seems wildly disproportionate and unnecessary because it is really not that big of a deal if people review.
If anything, repetition is good.
Review and repetition are good.
That's the better way in which you actually make sure that you remember things.
People remember things by having them drilled into their head over like different periods of time being use.
You can't expect people to like learn by other systems.
So I don't really think that there's any real problem here.
And like people can forget things during a school year as well.
If you talk about something the second week of class, and you quiz them on it two months later, they're probably not gonna remember it anyway, so no real impact there.
So for all of those reasons, very proud to defend summer as it currently is.