Mandatory retirement definitely brings more harm than good, and the reason that this is true is, first and foremost, because it's just rights-violative.
It's inherently a violation of the rights of elderly people and secondarily, because it's bad for the economy.
It's not even an economically good decision to do this.
So, let's first start by talking about rights.
I think that the right to work is generally a pretty powerful norm of a lot of countries have legislation on having a right to choose what occupations you want to work in.
Certainly in the united states and a lot of there's a lot of constitutional protections even about right to work in various fields, right to make a living.
But I think that additionally, it's also clearly facilitative.
You need to be able to work in order to make money and you need that to do just about everything, from travel to be healthy, to eat, to have shelter, all of these things are required for that.
So, why, therefore, is it bad to have forced retirement?
Because I think that you're essentially applying a a broad standard on to everyone, in incredibly unequal cases.
Because I think that the main idea behind such a ban is that there is a deterioration of people's health, maybe it's cognitive skills, physical skills, but the problem is that aging happens in very inexact ways, in very variant ways.
So you could have some people who may need to retire much earlier than others, some people who get alzheimer's at an earlier age, maybe in their sixties, other people who are sharp as ever into their late nineties though, other people maybe if they're like in like very good shape, if they're an athletic.
These are also reasons why different people can have different health.
And that's important because you're taking away the ability, the freedom of someone to make money, make a living, earn more, possibly for themselves, so they can spend more time when they so they have more disposable income when they do retire or to give to their descendants.
This is something that can be important to them, and people want to work, they should be able to work.
But I think that additionally this also contributes to further stereotyping of the elderly.
When you get to like a forced retirement age, people are more likely to look at elderly people as incapable and incompetent, and I think that's generally just going to lead to more elderly people feeling isolated and excluded as they get older.
But the next argument that I want to talk about is the economic factor of this, because I don't think that this is very good for the economy as well.
And this is quite simply because obviously, when you're not working anymore, you're not actively producing, you're not actively contributing your productivity the economy anymore, and that's pretty bad.
But I think additionally, not just you're withdrawing productivity but you're also adding on a resource strain because the moment in which you retire, your you become eligible for things like in america, at least, medicaid, medicare and social security, other kinds of benefits for the elderly, pension benefits, things like that.
And this is very important because those are all they just cost more money.
You should and the longer someone lives, if you possibly set a mandatory retirement age at too early an age, when other people are healthy, all of these benefits accrue in cost and they're pretty expensive for a society to front money for.
So, it's not you can spend that money on just about anything else, from like education, infrastructure, maybe like cut taxes even, if you want you to, or help poor people more.
Like there's all of different kinds of things that you can do with the money that you would save by letting people work instead into their later years, instead of having to paternalize them in this way.
So it's for all those reasons, very proud to oppose.