We should legalize doping in sports, because first and foremost, it'll just make sports better, it'll increase the actual appreciation and quality of sports, and secondarily, because legalizing doping, I actually think, is going to be better in a lot of ways for the health and safety of athletes.
So, let's start by talking about the quality of sports improving, when you legalize doping.
I think that it's important to note, that when you're talking about sports, the primary value of sports is entertainment.
You want sports to be as entertaining as possible, you want sports to be as high quality as possible.
That's what makes sports valuable was a source of entertainment, it's the competition, the degree to which there is an appreciation for the competition, the degree to which people actually like the sport, but, also that's the way in which you grab the money from sports, that's the way in which you actually increase the amount of money, athletes, and therefore get paid.
The amount of money that you got from TV deals and of all those things.
So, it's very important that sports are of higher quality.
I think that, doping will actually lead to higher quality in sports.
First and foremost, because athletes are going to be better as a result of doping.
When you take steroids, or growth hormone, or you minimize the pain that you experience as a result of the drugs you take, all of these things are going to increase your ability to perform, and this is important, because increased performance means it's going to be a better experience for the fans.
And I think that this is why you get a lot of appreciation for these things.
So, like for example, everyone, before you found out about the doping, everyone thinks that someone like barry bonds breaking a home run record, or like someone like lance armstrong's dominance in sports, or alex rodriguez, all of these things are seen as like record breaking, it's the same reason why, say, steph curry's three point records are very exciting for sports, or or like the, because people appreciate this narrative of sports, people appreciate sports at their height, they appreciate when records are being broken, when things in sports are better than they've ever been before.
Those are the kinds of things that create excitement in sport, because they're new and they're better.
So, I think that doping is a way in which you can help move this process along, I think it does make sports better.
The only reason people think that like it's bad is because there's an idea fairness but goes away, and more people are just doing it, or because there's like a social stigma surrounded by doping.
But I think that's a pretty silly reason, like if nobody ever knew that barry bonds took steroids, people would have just thought it was incredibly cool that he did this thing, and I think that the fact he took drugs doesn't take away from how cool the performance nature actually is.
So, I think that doping actually increases the quality of sports, and that's the most important thing.
That's the first area of argumentation.
I think a secondary of argumentation is about health and safety, and I think that this is important for two big reasons: first and foremost, because when you take more directly performance enhancing drugs, that can like increase your strength, increase your stamina, things like that, I think you're less likely going to, therefore, be subject to like the daily wear and tear from sports.
You're going to be better able to resist those, like that's the whole point, like if you get stronger you're better able to do the sport effectively, but if you're stronger, you're like you have better stamina, or all those things, you're also going to probably have a reduced risk of injury and things like that, which is very important for sports, very important for athletes, very important for fans too.
There's obviously like some scientific evidence, that may be like over using steroids, or things like that, or even take them at all, could lead to these problems, but I also think that like, as medical research in these drugs get better and better, those kinds of concerns only go down over time, and this argument just becomes more more powerful as we get to a more modern age of medicine.
But, I additionally think that this applies to other things too, because as far as like a legal classifications of performance enhancing drugs are, this applies to drugs like marijuana as well, and I think that's like a big problem, because oftentimes these drugs can be used in as a replacement of like prescription opiodes.
They are oftentimes much safer, come with much lower risk of addiction, are oftentimes better able to actually effectively combat problems, all of these things are actually better for athletes.
This is why and they're less likely to be abused.
So for all those reasons, I think we should legalize doping in sports