Wind power is absolutely fantastic and we should definitely further exploit it for a few big reasons.
First because wind power if further exploit it can be cheaper, second because it'll be really easily accessible and available, and third because wind power is super clean and super green which is fantastic.
So, first, why is it important that wind power will be cheaper in the long run?
And that I think that this is important because already in the status quo, setting up wind turbines isn't all that expensive but when you further exploit something, it creates more of an economies of scale for it, so if like more people start to want to use wind power, it sets up more of a like a necessity of like say formulating energy grids around wind turbines or further investing in better wind turbine technology.
A lot of these things build on each other so when we further exploit wind power, we're also going to see wind power get a lot more money thrown at it and it's going to ultimately lead to a lot more innovation in that sector which will lead to lower prices but more efficient technology.
And that's good because wind farming because setting up a wind farm to get wind power can ultimately be very cheap and very easy, and the reason for that is because you don't have to waste money on things like refining it like oil or processing it, you don't have to like extract it from anything because it's just wind like these are these are things that sound basic, but these are also things that cost money.
It costs money to set up a refinery, you have to set up like all the equipment, you have to pay all the people to man that, you have to do more transportation and traveling, and all of these things just go away when it's the wind.
So you're able to get your wind you're able to get your energy rather a lot more easily and a lot more cheaply.
So this will mean that your energy needs can just be set a lot more easily which is very very good.
But, in addition to the fact that it's going to be cheaper, that it will also be easier, which will just be helpful for a whole lot of people, it's also going to be cleaner and this is the most important thing because right now we're in an absolute crisis with regards to climate change in that a lot of global warming leads to an incredibly large likelihood that a lot of coastal areas are for example going to be flooded or unsuitable for life because sea levels rising are going to wipe out a lot of this like a lot of the cities that exist on coasts.
It also leads to worse natural disasters that occur.
It also leads to things like a harder ability to like grow crops so and the extreme weather also makes it more difficult to grow crops so a lot of these things are going to lead to risks of food insecurity or even famine.
These are like some problems uniquely implicated for global warming.
These are all things that are corrected by wind farms because wind power doesn't involve releasing a whole lot of heat or CO two emissions into the atmosphere.
It doesn't require heavy extraction operations that could trigger an earthquake in north dakota or things like that.
It doesn't set off fumes, it doesn't lead to chemical runoff into peoples' water supplies which can also make people sick.
There is an endless list of ways in which clean technology like wind power is just going to make peoples' lives better in the basic ways and also make the world more livable in very basic ways.
So for all those reasons we should further exploit wind power.