The american jobs act brought way more harm than good, for two big reasons: first because it led to an increase in the deficit, and an increase in the debt, and I think that this is bad, and wildly irresponsible, and second, because I think that it used up a lot of political capital, that necessarily came at the expense of better focused plans, that actually would lead to long term solutions to problems that we face.
So, let's start by talking about the problem of debt and deficit.
I think that this is incredibly important, because whenever you you whenever you increase the deficit, it leads to, on a yearly basis, it leads to, overtime, a greater and greater accumulation of debt.
So, this is a problem.
Because eventually, you're going to have to pay off this debt.
When people lend you money, people eventually want that money back.
Not only do they want that money back, but they expect to get more money back than they originally got.
That's the way in which this works.
So, there's first obvious financial implication that is associated with this, because the status quo, with like american society, for a long time has been: oh we need to spend more money on something?
Well then, we'll just borrow more money.
Oh we need to repay that money?
Then let's borrow more money.
So first, this creates the problem with like over time, you're only going to see these costs go up and up, because borrowing money is in of itself an expensive act, and you're going to have to eventually pay that money back, and you're eventually losing more money, because you're going to pay that money back.
But, this is also an unfair way in which like, the burden it's going to be putting on people, because the primary burden, of paying this money back, is going to be on younger americans, it is going to be on millennials, it's going to be on the next generation, and I think that's very very bad and very very irresponsible, because first, they're they're not the people who are primarily getting the benefits of this, like young people are not primarily the ones who are going to be the beneficiaries of these jobs, young people aren't going to be the ones that are actually going to get a lot of this like economic help as a result of this job and stimulus act, but those are the people who are going to have to pay for all this debt spending in the long run, and I think this is incredibly bad, because this isn't our fault.
It's not young people's fault, that all of these costs are the recruited value, and it's not fair to put the spending all this who aren't not only benefiting the problem, but never really got a choice in this spending in the first place, because of the like m asymmetrical political power that younger people have.
I also think that that's like incredibly immoral.
But, in addition to all of that, I also think that the american jobs act was bad, because of the way in which it used up a lot of political capital for a bad focus.
So when you're trying to pass a bill, its the like the jobs act, I think then it was like very poorly focused, in that it focused on short term things, that aren't ultimately creating long term good jobs, like infrastructure projects, which may be good in some senses, but they're ultimately not going to actually lead to sustainable jobs, they're are not jobs that people can actually make a career out of, so that's not all that good.
But, I additionally think that, it was primarily just repair focused in nature, it was primarily just repairing roads, repairing energy things, like that, and of repairing like energy grids and things like that, and like, I think that that's like important, because when you create like a new energy grid per se, you're just increasing our ability to rely on the ways in which we already get energy, like you're increasing our ability to rely on oil or gas or things like that.
What this does is it de de emphasizes a focus on alternative sources of energy.
When you repair roads, you increase the likelihood and ease of using a car, so people are going to be less likely to rely on alternative forms of education, of like transportation, things like that, and that's where a lot of this goes, and I think that all that bad.
So for those reasons, the american jobs act was bad.