Year round schooling will bring more good than harm for two big reasons.
First because it's going to help with the way in which people learn.
It's going to actually help students academically and secondarily it's going to help students on a psychological level.
It's going to reduce stress and it's going to lead to a more positive schooling experience for students.
So let's start by talking about learning and about why this is going to help people learning.
Recognize that the way in which it the way in which people learn best is by constant reinforcement of skills over time.
This is especially true for certain types of school classes like foreign language classes math classes things like that.
And the reason why this is important is because when you're in a lot of ways not just trying to like memorize facts but learning an entire system or like having to construct entire systems and things like that and possibly systems that you may not use all the time so while maybe you're more likely to remember some of your english lessons if use that on a daily basis, or more frequently, you're not as likely to use calculus on a daily basis so you're more likely to lose those skills if you don't practice them for an extended period of time.
And that extended period of time is exactly what happens when you have the incredibly long vacations that happen.
So this is obviously very bad because when you have these more extended vacations students do forget a whole lot of things and when they forget these things it's necessary to spend more time reviewing lessons and repeating lessons.
In fact reviewing and repeating may not even be the right words.
Relearning is probably a better way to describe it because you can forget something entirely in the course of two months and over summer so therefore it's essentially just a waste of time to have to relearn these things.
Things that could otherwise be taught.
But the next way in which this is going to help is this is going to help students from the psychological perspective.
So most of the time a school routine can be quite rigorous.
You can wake up at like six o'clock in the well you have to be like wake up at six o'clock in the morning for a seven o'clock start to classes you may end classes at three PM but you probably have to do like a sport or an extra curricular or a job and then by the time that's done you probably have homework that you have to do, or a test that you have to study for and repeating that process for months on end every week is an incredibly draining and tiring process.
And therefore I think that people oftentimes do want more breaks like because it's not necessarily as important to have the one long break.
I think that people would generally find it a lot more relaxing, a lot more stressful if they could every once in awhile have those like four five day weekends, have a vacation instead of like having instead of having to do like the same week-long routines for three months in a row.
Having more breaks intermittently, which is going to be pretty good at reducing stress, making it so that people are better able to cope with a rather strenuous schooling system that oftentimes happens.
So that's very important but additionally we also think that when there is more of a why we additionally think that when you have this long vacation there's more of a pressure to use the time that you do have the like the time window that you do have much more efficiently.
So I think that what this does is this puts more pressure on students and the school like the teachers themselves to push students harder to make sure that they're learning more and more during this stretch of time because they know that a whole lot of this information is going to have to get for is going to get forgotten at some point anyways so they have to make sure they're like learning as much as possible and things like that.
So for those reasons, because it's going to make sure that students don't forget things and because it's psychologically better for students to have shorter amounts of time between breaks and a greater frequency of those breaks, since that's when you're more likely to be exhausted, you're not gonna be exhausted after a two month long break we're very proud to propose that year long schooling will do more good than harm.