We should keep intellectual property rights first, because I think that intellectual property rights for just a fundamental right that people should have and should exist on a principled level, and second I think that intellectual properties are important to ensure that we achieve positive outcomes, that we maximize innovation and we maximize creation of things that people value from and people appreciate.
So, let's start by talking about the rights claims that we have here.
I think that it's important to note that if you create song or if you write a book or if you come up with a work of art or a logo anything like that, these are things that you created.
They're no different than say if you spend your money on a plot of land or on a house or something like that.
These are things that you achieved through your labor and your work.
You're responsible for its creation.
I think that if anything, intellectual property rights have an even stronger rights claim because you're directly responsible for the creation of that thing and I think that that the creation of something is incredibly important because any value that can come out of it and good that it does for society is ultimately attributed to the fact that you did something.
Your action resulted in these positive benefits.
So I think that you can you're perfectly within your rights to reap some of the rewards from that because if a lot of people benefit from like your good, if people are willing to pay for it, I think that you should have the right to profit off of that because it's your work and you should be rewarded for it.
But, I also think that it's important to uphold intellectual property rights on a outcomes based framework, and the reason for this is because if we want people to, say create music, people aren't going to be able to spend their lives creating music or art or things like that unless you give them a way to make money off of that.
So if you think that people get value off of art or if people get value from listening to music, if it makes their lives better, it's important to make sure that you're supporting the people who give you that sense of happiness when you listen to a great song, and the bay way in which this is supported is by making sure they're able to make a living by doing what they're doing.
But without an intellectual property right, it's impossible for them to actually make this living because anyone can just rip them off, use their song however they want, and they're not be able to make money off of that.
And that means that people aren't going to see this is as a viable career so people just aren't going to do it, and that means you're definitely going to be losing something.
You lose part of that creativity and I don't think that's something that you can get back.
Now, I think that it's quite obvious the other side is going to want to talk about the ways in which like intellectual property can be abused, about how it can make things a lot more expensive or more difficult to access, but I would say that first it's important to compare this to the fact that part of this is just this is the way reality works and that if you're expecting people to put a lot of effort into making something, it's reasonable that they can expect a reward from that or some kind of rights claim.
But I think that, additionally, a lot of this can be results of sometimes in practice intellectual property rights aren't always implemented in the best way, but that doesn't necessarily mean that they're not something that's principally important and not something that's principally worthy of being upheld as valuable.
So if you believe that when people make something that they should have a right to get some money off of it and if you believe that we need to make sure that we're incentivizing people to actually do things that people benefit from, then you should definitely keep intellectual property rights, so very proud to oppose.