We should ban partial birth abortions because partial birth abortions are immoral and it's something that it's necessary to do.
So let's start by grounding what this abortion debate looks like, cause I think that oftentimes there's a lot of polarizing extremes here.
But one thing that most people can agree on is that there probably is a line at which point abortion becomes a rather problematic thing in which the life of the of the essentially future baby should outweigh the preferences of the woman who's carrying that child.
So think about it this way, all of the arguments about like women's rights to choose, women having their lives controlled financially, socially, and emotionally by like a small child and things like that, are incredibly valid arguments but they're also true of of the child no matter at what stage of pregnancy it's in.
Hell, it's probably true when they're an infant as well.
Just because the child is like just because the future baby or the fetus is seven months old, or it's a nine month old baby that was actually born, it's not like that child is any less taxing on a woman emotionally or financially or anything like that.
But infanticide is something clearly illegal.
Nobody allow like you're not allowed to just like kill a baby after you have it.
That would be ludicrous and it would that's just murder.
So since that's the case there obviously has to be a line that exists.
So when you think about it this way if it's illegal and infanticide to kill an infant after it's born is that really any meaningfully different than a child one day or a month before it's born when it's more or less similarly developed, it has all of its vital organs, it has its small baby brain its small baby heart, and its small like like a it's just a smaller version of what's going to come out a month later anyway.
There's not really a whole lot of meaningful difference there.
Certainly not to the extent where one should be allowed to be murdered and the other it's it's one is immoral to do so.
So I think that there has to be a line and this line has to be at some point.
So where should we put that line?
And I think that late term abortions are a pretty reasonable place to put that line for a few reasons: first, because woman has a lot of time to decide whether or not she wants to have that child.
If if we're talking about a late term abortion you probably have at least three months, probably four months, maybe even five months to basically decide whether or not you want a child.
And if you aren't able to decide or get an abortion within five months, then I think that there's some kind of deeper problem at work.
But that's okay because there's an alternative at place.
Because if you decide after six months that you want to have an abortion or you're not prepared to take care of a child, you can always offer that child up for adoption.
And that's like a perfectly adequate alternative to make sure that the baby who's already really developed by now, the baby is like possibly able to survive outside of a woman's body after a certain point in time in the late term or like in the later trimesters making sure that you're not essentially killing something that could live on its own in a modern day hospital.
So given all of those things I think it's perfectly reasonable to put regulations on late term abortions.
You're trying to balance the very valid and legitimate concerns that women have against the concerns that people should have over an infants well being and I think that the best way to do that is make sure that late term abortions are being banned.
So for all those reasons you should ban them.