Prenatal diagnosis is quite bad, and I think that the reason why it's quite bad is because the result of the screening is a essentially a culling of a lot of diversity that we see, and it's a different kind of diversity.
It's neuro diversity, but also less of an ability for people who whether it's a mental of like a learning disability or things like that, like autism or maybe something that is more physical.
Oftentimes these things aren't debilitating, people can still function so it's a a matter of preference, and I think that this is a key distinction to talk about.
Because when you're talking about something that's preference, obviously if it's literally life or death, this person can't survive, then we're fine with having a a a prenatal diagnosis properly determine that, but I think that generally you should defer away from that.
And you should defer away from it because there's no reason why someone, just because they're sick, cannot still enjoy life in a lot of ways in which other people can.
Obviously, they won't be able to do all of the same things, but you still get a lot out of life.
You can still do things that a lot of people do, and you still can get meaning and value out of your existence, and I think that in a lot of ways it's important, if anything, more so to give these people that opportunity.
And I think that, additionally, this is particularly true when it's when we're talking about any possible learning disabilities or learning disorders.
I think that it's important to recognize that different people, just because they have learning disabilities, aren't necessarily like valuable contributors to society, they aren't able to do a whole lot of things and make accomplishments in their life, and I think that it's good if we accept those things and make sure that we're accommodating for those things.
I think that , in a lot of ways, when you allow for prenatal diagnosis, you're going to try to try it's almost like trying to get like your perfect your child, your ideal child, and I don't necessarily think that that's right.
I think that these oftentimes are, in a lot of ways, a part of who people are.
There's no reason why you should change genetics in that way.
But I think that, finally, this can oftentimes manifest itself in a sexist way possibly, if you extend this to sex-selective abortions as a part of a diagnosis process.
And I think that there is very clearly harms there, because those harms are essentially the devaluing of female lives, something that very clearly is degrading in a lot of ways and not something that we should try to support.
So, that's important to note.
And the final argument I want to do is a bit of a comparative, and I want to compare all of these harms to a plausible good that can come out of it.
Because I think that oftentimes, you can satisfy a lot of these benefits in other ways.
It it's the like rare example of like you need like a donor of some kind, usually you can do this with with some kind of alternative methods, like get a live donor or clone various parts of bodies, or like you there is all there is generally usually other alternatives.
But I still don't think that this generally is applying to a life or death.
I think that what this is usually talking about is just parents who are trying to make a choice, and they're making a choice that they want their child to maybe not have as many difficulties or things like that, and while that's admirable, that's ultimately taking away something from the child, taking away an aspect of their identity, and I don't think that that's right.
So for all those reasons, very proud to oppose.