We should protect endangered species.
First, because species interact with one another, and he extinction of a species can cause widespread ramifications on food chains, and widespread bad impacts.
And secondarily, because I think that there's an inherent value in life, and an inherent value in bio diversity, that we should ultimately just have a moral duty to protect.
So, let's first talk about the practical harms that extinction actually has.
I think that, it's quite obvious that food chains are very much interconnected with one another.
So, the obvious example of this is that, you have like grass that gets energy from the sun, then you have animals that eat grass, and then you can have humans that can eat either those animals or that grass, things like that.
And that's like a very basic illustration of the way in which life is interconnected, and if one of those things is absent, IE if if an animal goes extinct, then that means that, all the good that it does, so for example maybe , it spreads the seeds of an animal, or maybe it is food for another animal, or it prevents overpopulation of other kind of animal or plant, their nature has a natural way of insuring checks and balances, and insuring its own stability in an ecosystem.
So, when we don't protect endangered species, we make it so that lot of these species are going to die out and mess up the food chain entirely.
So, what is a really concrete example of what this looks like, and how it can harm a lot of people a lot of actors, including people?
A lot of in recent times, because of like genetical engineering and things like that, we've seen a lot of like honey bees become more and more extinct, except in more farming context, as opposed to like killer bees, which are becoming much more widespread.
And this presents a problem, because they do much less in the way of pollination, like pollinating different flowers.
So, this means that flowers are less likely to spread, it also means that it's harder for fruits to grow, things like that.
And that means that, anything that uses the flowers, or anything that eats the fruit, their source of food is compromised, and that means that the extinctions can become compounded, and it can lead to more problems.
So, that's that's that's very bad, and that can lead to catastrophic problems in some cases.
But, the second thing that I want to talk about is about the ethical duty to protect endangered species.
So first, I want to talk about fault, because I think that by and large, a lot of the reasons why I think species are endangered, is because of humans in the first place.
We're in the midst of a mass extinction of a lot of organisms, and it's obvious that humans are the culprit .
Whether it's by habitat destruction, over fishing, or over eating, or over consuming, or pollution, there's a whole variety of ways in which humans are compromising the environment, and making it more difficult for a lot of organisms survive in them.
And that's really important, because the endangerment is the fault of humans.
So if that endangerment is a problem, then it's something that we have a moral duty to correct.
And, I think that this is a problem, because I think that there's an inherent value in life, and there's an inherent beauty in life, whether it's the smallest bug, or like the largest like I don't know hippopotamus, or elephant, or things like that, a lot of elephants get like in danger for like their tusks, ivory and things like that.
I think that in a lot of ways these are these are animals that have complex lives, and complex emotions in a lot of cases, they can be animals that could have depression, they could be animals that have families, they can be animals that, in a lot of ways, can suffer and have pain.
I think that there's a whole lot of beauty, and a whole lot of value, to the lives that they hold, and I think that when we put them in bad situations, we're really doing a moral harm to them, and that's something that we should stop.
So, for all those reasons, we should protect endangered species.