We should not protect endangered species because it's really not that big of a deal things die out in nature all the time and there's really more important things for us to worry about.
So let's start by talking about why just the fact that something is endangered isn't really all that big of a deal.
Obviously all of natural history is predicated on the idea that things evolve, things die, things change that's kind of how the world works.
And just because things exist right now doesn't mean that they're always going to exist nor does it mean they always should exist.
Like there is a reason dinosaurs aren't around anymore because nature just took its course and that's the way it is.
There's no specific reason why humans should get in the way of that I think if any of you can be actually counterproductive in some cases because if you try to like protect things that are near extinction for the sake of it you're really overriding the fact that something should die because of natural selection anyway.
Like I get it pandas are really cute but the fact that pandas only reproduce like once every five years in what in like a view specific locations in the wild and that's why their populations are dwindling is kind of pandas own fault and like very like bad evolutionary and probably something that like shouldn't really be meant to survive in the wild anyway and there's like other animal species like that as well things like that but even when we're talking about animal species that are endangered as the direct result of like human beings and like human progress I feel like when you compare it to the threat of climate change which is very very bad for humans I feel like doesn't really matter so much when animals are the victims because at the end of the day human progress and human development does a whole lot of good for humans when you have more economic development for humans you have less people starving you have more people that can like get access to a lot of basic resources when you like extract natural resources for energy from places energy is cheaper more available to people like there's all kinds of reasons why we destroy habitats in a way that we do in the first place and I would argue that the benefits that we get to actual real people is a whole lot more important than just like oh well this like like very like small species of life iguana or whatever is going to die out because we're cutting down this part of its rain forest like obviously that's unfortunate but it's something that we can deal with at the end the day and not the worst thing in the world.
The next thing that I would say is that it's probably a waste of money besides the fact that it's bad because of the opportunity cost that it gives us it's also a waste of money cause you can spend the money that you would spend on protecting endangered species and enforcing this you can spend it on a whole lot better things you can spend it on making sure like people don't starve.
You could spend it on education.
You could spend it on building levees so that way when our cities are flooded that's less likely to happen because of climate change there's all kinds of things that you can spend this money on instead.
So for all those reasons we should not protect endangered species.