Holocaust denial, while deplorable, should not be a criminal offense and it shouldn't be a criminal offense because at the other day all it is is an expression of freedom of thought and freedom of speech and it's not and that is never a criminal action, unless you're inciting others to actually harm other peoples.
The basis upon which like any kind of free society is founded upon is that in order to determine what's actually the best for society, what actually is the best way for people to live their lives, you need to have discourse, you need to have discussion actually determine what these what our values should be.
And this is incredibly important because it's not up to the powers that currently exist, the powers that be, to determine what is socially acceptable and what is socially unacceptable.
It's for society to let people speak out and then for them to be condemned if they are deserving of our condemnation.
And this is why, at the end of the day, holocaust denial should not be a criminal offense.
Because at the end because holocaust denial isn't something that actually hurts people in like a clear way.
It's insulting, it's something that can be insulting to you, obviously, and it's something that you can't like but holocaust denial isn't something that actually physically hurts you in in in such a way.
It's not something that makes it like impossible for you to live your life, it's not something that literally oppresses you, it's only so harmful in that other people try to act upon that as a way to actually oppress jewish people or something like that.
And I think that that's like a and I think that that's why you can't make it illegal because while because freedom of speech has to be something that is absolute in order to make sure that it's not like society deciding what is and isn't okay when these things are constantly involving and constantly changing.
The second thing that I want to talk about though is I want to talk about the impossibility of enforcing this and why this is only going to backfire.
So I think the biggest thing is that if you make holocaust denial a criminal offense that doesn't mean that you're not going to have like neo nazis anymore, it doesn't mean that you're not going to have people who still want to deny the holocaust, and it doesn't mean that you're not still going to have alt right like alt right chat boards or forums on 4chan or reddit or things like that that are going to be anonymous and still encourage people to discuss their most horrible views.
If anything when people deny the holocaust openly without fear of criminal repercussions, it's better because it allows people to know who holocaust denials are deniers are so that they can be rightfully condemned by the people rather than just being rather than them just being people that are hidden in the shadows where we don't really know where they are and how to condemn them.
And it's obviously not going to be particularly enforceable as well because since it's so easy to conceal your identity and conceal your speech on the internet nowadays by and large most of the meat of holocaust denial doesn't come from politicians it comes from individual people like individual schmucks on the internet.
You're not really going to be able to enforce anything against them.
So for all those reasons holocaust denial shouldn't be a criminal offense.