Physical education should be mandatory because physical education is very good for the welfare of children, are both in their physical health and their psychological health.
So let's start by talking about why mandatory PE is good for children's physical health.
Obviously in a lot of parts in the world and particularly in america, kids are not very healthy.
Kids are pretty fat, kids are are risking being obese, kids are kids are more likely going to be on their phones or on their computers or things like that playing games online, they're more likely going to be doing that than any kind of physical activity, and and this is a trend that's already happened en masse.
And this is a big problem because the result is that people literally are unhealthy.
And this is a problem because exercise can help with like a horde of various health ailments.
Obviously exercise is good for just like directly not having like, in later life, like weight related problems, like a heart attack or stroke, it's like good cardiovascular health, it could help prevent diabetes, it's also good for your brain, things like that.
Those are the obvious long term affects.
And those are important because if you have mandatory physical education there's an opportunity for you to learn how to you how to learn good habits and how to learn how to take care of yourself for the long term, which is important.
Because for all of the like reasons we go to school, like to learn to your future life, learning how to take care of yourself, your health in a very basic way is obviously something that you should learn at school, because learning how to take care of yourself is arguably more important than learning calculus for most people.
So those are obvious long term effects.
The short term effects are even more obvious, you don't want to have a bunch of kids that are diabetic, you don't want to have a bunch of kids that are completely out of shape, because that's really bad for them.
And PE can directly help that by just giving them more opportunities for physical activity in besides just like the long term learning effects.
But besides all the obvious direct but besides the like physical benefits, I think there's also a lot of psychological benefits to mandatory PE.
A lot of people argue that kids don't perform as well nowadays because they constantly feel overworked, they constantly feel stressed, and because they're not really being given sufficient opportunities to enjoy their time at school, or for school to be like an enjoyable experience for people.
And one of the big ways in which you can help fight this is with PE.
Because PE is one of the things that a lot of people enjoy.
PE is an opportunity for you to play a lot of like team sports with friends, a lot of people think it's really fun because like you're exercising, you're putting your books down and you're are playing with people, you're getting a good workout.
A lot of times it makes you more likely to be calm afterwards which is also good for education, but it's also good for your ability to focus.
So you're more likely gonna be calm and focused after PE.
You're more like we're going to have like a feeling of accomplishment.
There's a whole lot of reasons why from a psychological perspective physical education is very very important.
So for those reasons we should make it mandatory.