Holocaust denial should be a criminal defense first because holocaust denial is a hate crime and hate crimes should be criminal offences, and second because I think that holocaust denial making it a criminal offence carries a great deal of symbolic weight which is incredibly important for making a lot of vulnerable jews in places like europe, especially right now, feel a lot more secure.
So let's start by talking about why I think that holocaust denial just should be a crime.
I think that there's a reason why a lot of places in europe all in fact most western democracies, maybe not the united states because of its much stronger than most look rule rules on freedom of speech amendment protections.
Most places around the world have hate speech outlawed and the reason for that is because hate speech is designed to make people who live in any place uncomfortable in their own skin and feel uncomfortable going out and living their daily lives in the country.
That's hosts that hate speech.
Hateful speech is in a lot of ways an attack on someone's like identity.
I can hurt someone like emotionally in ways that is not so different from being physically punched in the face.
The way in which hate speech can truly rock your core and harm you is not something that should be understated and the reason why hate speech is outlawed.
So why do I think that holocaust denial is particularly a kind of hate speech that is definitely should be recognized and is definitely very pernicious, and this is true because holocaust denial is just a slap in the face to the millions of jews that were executed by a horrible regime and moreover the descendants of those people who still live in europe to those days and the people who like carry on the like jewish legacy.
To deny the suffering that was a part of the holocaust, to deny the tragedy that was the holocaust, trying to wipe it off the face of history, is just try to overlook the oppression that essentially jews had to face and it's all the hardships that jews had to face and that's absolutely not somethng that you should do because it's just like ignoring an absolute aspect of their lives and it's really demeaning to say that the like suffering of your people isn't something that actually happens, something so blatantly factually inaccurate it's in a lot of ways an attack on jewish identity and it's attack on jews because it's a way to try to make them feel lesser.
It's a way to try to make them feel vulnerable again and that's absolutely not something that should be protected.
It's absolutely something that should be criminal.
But, additionally I also think that there is a huge symbolic element here and I think that when a government makes holocaust denial a criminal defense criminal offence, this is something that isn't going to go unnoticed and this is something that carries with it, since the force of the law has carried with this as a criminal offense, this is going to make a lot of people feel a lot safer even if this doesn't actually lead to less holocaust denial.
It's going to make people feel more supported by the government and people feel more comfortable with the government.
So first and foremost, if you like want people to stay in a lot of these countries that's necessary like a lot of jews emigrate from places like france to israel because they don't feel safe in france because of upticks in hate crimes and anti-semitic crimes, so on that level if you like want to keep jews in your country, if you want to keep a diversity religious diversity in your country, that's important.
But like on the basic citizen on the basic citizenship level you should be trying to afford rights to these people so they feel included, so they feel protected, and this is incredibly important because I think that symbolism matters.
Like when when like the confederate flag is allowed to fly outside of a state house in south carolina you don't feel accepted by that government but when that is taken down or if wouldn't it be great if the confederate flag could be something almost associated with criminal activity.
That would certainly make the people who have suffered you know a lot more safe and a lot more supported by the government.
This is a basic way in which symbolism does matter and symbolism actually affects people's lives and makes them feel safer.
So for all those reasons, holocaust denial should be a criminal offence.