We should criminalize blasphemy, because it's akin to hate speech, and because it leads to public disorder, and resentment between religious groups.
So, let's start by talking about what exactly we're going to criminalize, because we're not going to criminalize every single kind of blasphemy.
So, if someone is just like an atheist, and they say: I don't believe in god, possibly in some kind of public setting, those aren't the people that we're going to prosecute, that's not the kind of things we're worried about.
What we're talking about are people, who are outwardly insulting people, who may say things like god is evil, god is hateful, or people who desecrate some kind of holy objects.
So, people who will like, for example, burn a quran, or try to like, burn like a like like burn some kind of cross, things like that, things that I think truly embody a kind of hatred for religion and god.
Let's start by talking about why these things are necessary.
First, because it's akin to hate speech.
So, it's generally accepted that, speech rights are obviously important, but nevertheless not absolute, and maybe not in america, but most parts of the world hate speech is banned.
And the reason it's banned is because, it's essentially a way to like verbalize violence against someone else.
In a lot of ways, it's similar to bullying, in that the point of it is, not so much to like, rationally exchange ideas, the point of it is to hurt somebody.
And I think, when the point of your speech is to hurt someone, very deeply, that kind of speech is obviously not something that we just have to protect, and it can banned.
So, let's talk about why blasphemy needs this kind of a qualification.
I think it's quite obvious that it does, because no matter what your opinions on religion are, it's quite clear that there is billions of people around the world, who believe deeply in their religion, whatever it may happen to be, and that's incredibly important, because when you do something that can be deeply insulting to someone, like burn a quran, in a lot of ways, you're attacking the core of a lot of people's identity.
And, that is very very hurtful, it's, in a lot of ways, like you're punching someone in the face, it's very hurtful for them, and it's something that we don't have to tolerate.
But, the next thing that I want to talk about is about the public disorder that can happen, for these kinds of things.
So, in addition to a lot of places you're able to ban hate speech, because it's akin to trying to, like, harm someone emotionally, one of the other kinds of speech that we don't allow is incitement.
So, I think that, when you do a lot when you do a lot of the more extreme blasphemous things, one of the reasons you're often trying to do this is, because you're trying to express your hatred, and you're trying to incite a reaction.
So, when a pastor in gainesville florida wants to burn a quran on television, and then put the video on youtube, it's in a lot of ways the same thing like when isis decides to behead people, and then put the video on youtube.
They're trying to get a reaction, they're trying to incite a response, and they're trying to incite, in a lot of circumstances, some kind of a violent response.
So, these things are obviously very bad, and these things are bad, because they put people's lives at risk.
When you do something that you know is going to offend people so dearly, that these people might riot, these people might like do something like a very very bad, that's a good enough reason to say: no, you can't do it.
Because, in a lot of ways, you have moral culpability for the harms and the damages that are going to happen.
Because it is incitement.
You don't have to directly say: I want to see you like a like rip this building down, or burn this building down, for it to be incitement.
If you create the environment, in which you're very likely going to see this consequence, that is more than sufficient.
So, for those reasons, we should criminalize blasphemy.