We should protect the antarctic continent for two big reasons.
Firstly because it would only developing on that continent further, not protecting it, would only accelerate global warming which would be absolutely horrible.
And secondarily, because I believe that this would also likely usher in more global conflict.
So, first, let's talk about global warming.
Obviously this is obviously, this is quite likely to have a big impact.
Because when you are not protecting it, whether you're drilling for oil, whether you're setting up like factories or mines or other kinds of operations in order to try to extract minerals, this necessarily requires the introduction of things like heat, breaking up the natural environment, ejecting chemicals into the ground, things like that, and all of that necessarily leads to a deterioration of the environment.
So when this when we're talking about a antarctica, this is incredibly important because this is where a a whole lot of are like water is locked up in a world, where the ice caps on, things like that.
And that's one of the most direct ways in which you can see the harms of global warming, the flooding that could occur.
And that is what makes a lot of the the very scary possibility that a lot of coasts won't even be habitable soon.
But in addition to that, it also just leads to a general deterioration of conditions.
With global warming, you're also more likely to see natural disasters and further weather extremes based on that.
You're more likely to see food not growing and things like that.
Also you're more likely to see a lot of consequences from human life because of that.
So all these things are quite bad, and I think that all of these things are more likely if you were to allow whatever operations and businesses to do things in the antarctic.
So, the next point is about global conflict, and I think that this is also true.
Because recognize that anything that can be extracted from the antarctic continent is something that you can profit off of.
If you're able to extract minerals or oil, these are all things that you could profit off of.
So, this is bad because currently there's a lot of like treaties up and it's in neutral, nobody actually has a claim to it.
So this is a problem because I don't generally think that people in the international community are all that good at sharing things.
People generally like to make claim for things, expand their borders and the like.
And this presents a good opportunity to do that, and I think that that will present some problems because you likely see countries fighting over resources, and that is obviously not something that we want to foster.
And I think this is particularly likely given current climates political climates with america, china, russia, all likely wanting to like state claims to these resources, trying to get like competitive economic advantages over other individuals.
So, those are all very much important, and it is for all of those reasons that I think it is absolutely vital that we protect the antarctic continent.