We should not protect the antarctic continent.
We should allow drilling, we should allow mining, we should allow all kinds of other things that we should do, to get as much money out of the antarctic continent as possible.
First reason for this, is because I think that there's an unknown level of resources and wealth in the antarctic continent, continent, but it's probably a lot of money.
The antarctic has a pretty similar climate to other places in the arctic circle, like parts of norway or alaska, things like that, and you know what?
There's a lot of oil in those places, in the northern arctic circle, like millions of dollars worth of oil.
There's also a whole lot of other kinds of resources like, there could be like coal sitting around, there could be like precious metal sitting around, and things like that.
All kinds of things that people can make a lot of money off them.
So, this is very important, because a lot of costs of living are expensive, like oil is expensive, heat, electricity, gas, all of these things are expensive, and a greater prevalence of oil also has much wider economic consequence than people think.
Like when oil is cheaper, public transportation is cheaper, anything that uses plastic is cheaper, because oil goes into plastic, obviously gasoline in your cars is cheaper, a lot of your heating can be cheaper, so like, getting a large sum of oil isn't just like some way in which people make more money, and that's good, this can tangibly improve a whole lot of people's lives, and I think that's like incredibly important to recognize.
I also think that, a lot of the like harms of war are just going to be drastically overblown, if anything I think that this is going to be like the best way in which oiling is going to work.
For example, like oil drilling happens in the status quo, in international waters, and what generally happens is that, like it's required that the international community or other areas get like some degree of equal benefits, like obviously the people who put more resources into the extraction themselves get a little bit more out of it, but what it allows you to do is: first and foremost, it's cheaper for everyone, because when oil is cheaper, even if it's only extracted by some people, and some people get more of the profits, when there's more oil, when it's cheaper and easier to access, all the benefits of cheaper oil that I talked about, are going to be actualized on by everyone.
What else is I don't think there's going to be like actual like wars over this like, especially in the arctic and antarctica, because I think that like people are like going to be like reasonable enough to recognize, that you're not gonna have like state on state warfare, like there's not going to be a war between china and america, they'll probably come up with some kind of agreement to ultimately equally divide these things.
Maybe different areas can be extracted by different nations, maybe you'll just like pull all the money together, or all the oil together, and like distribute it equally, like some kind of agreement, that is fair and equitable, will come up and will probably prevent conflict, especially because there's no like like the wars like a war would just cost everyone money, and then you can't like profit as easily off of the oil which is like bad.
But finally, I think that like drilling for oil in the antarctic is, or mining for resources, is preferable than the alternatives, like it's better that you do these things in a really really far away place, that's only going to affect a couple of seals, polar bears and penguins, than like drilling for oil in the gulf of mexico, where you can have an oil spill that's going to like, just destroy a lot of industries, in like the entire coast of a country, or having like fracking happen in the middle of a country, which can contribute to like a bunch of earthquakes, or contamination of run off of like drinking water, like all those things are way way way worse, than doing these things in like far away remote locations.
So yeah, drill for oil in antarctica, don't protect it, do whatever you want there, it's great for the economy, it's great for helping people, and it's great by comparison too.
Very proud to oppose.