Tower blocks are advantageous, because they incentivize urbanization, which is ultimately good, because it increases convenience, and quality of life, and second, because it is preferable to other alternatives, like urban sprawl, which present lot of problems comparatively.
So, we'll talk about the first one, about convenience, and about why urbanization is good for this.
So I think that, the reason why we see people concentrate in urban centers, in the first place, is because there's a lot of opportunities in urban areas.
On the more hard benefits of urbanization, there's some obvious ones, like ease of access to various services and things like that, so there's going to be a lot more options for things like medical treatment, there's oftentimes a lot more options for various schools, and things like that.
It's oftentimes way easier to get to all of these things, because you have public transportation, so you don't have to be reliant on a car, or things as much, or things like that.
But, you're also going to be able to have more options for the kind of work you want to do, there's generally more options for employment, because of the sheer size of cities oftentimes.
So, those are all things that are very good, but additionally, I think that these things have a quality of life elements in them as well, because, what it does is it gives you more choices about how you want to really shape your life, and it gives you more freedom to shape your life in the way that you want to do.
But, I also think that tower blocks are a uniquely necessary aspect of this, because you simply cannot have cities without tower blocks, without like higher residential areas.
If you want to have some comparative concentrations, you're going to see the the comparative be a urban sprawl, or suburban sprawl, and this is far far worse, because it takes out a lot of the convenience factors, because it becomes more difficult to organize the public transportation, it becomes more difficult to get to places without a car, but even more even more pernicious, it's far worse for the environment, which presents a whole lot of problems.
And it's worse for the environment, because first, it just requires more use of land, for less populated and less less densely populated areas, but additionally, one of the worst factors, as far as global warming is concerned, is house emissions, and car emissions specifically, and these things are a huge contributors to global warming, and they're more severe when they're when urban sprawl is present, because you're going to simply need more cars, you need more less efficient energy sources, when you have like a bigger house of your own, rather than being in an apartment, in a tower block, and things like that.
So, those are the other problems, but I think that additionally, there's the problem of, without tower blocks, without the ability to create highrise areas, there is necessarily going to be shortages of housing.
And this is true, because it's almost always going to be impossible to keep out keep up with housing demand in cities, just by simply building out.
So, you're necessarily going to have to build up, in order to create more space for the increasing demand.
This is very important, because if you don't want to just price people out of communities, if you want to make sure that housing is actually available to a lot of people, if you don't want people to possibly even end up homeless, in the more severe cases, it's very important make sure that affordable housing is available.
And, tower blocks increase the supply of housing, and that makes it more affordable, it makes it more accessible.
And, I think that for all those reasons, tower blocks are certainly advantageous.