We should not exploit hydroelectric dams anymore than we already are because when you look at all in the comparative if you're already if you're going to spend a lot of money to invest in a new green technology, hydroelectrive dams isn't exactly the way to go and other alternatives like solar energy are far better.
So first let's start by talking about why hydroelectric dams aren't all that great.
So the first and foremost one is that like they're really bad for the environment.
In order to like constructive damn you have to basically heavily restrict water flow, possibly redirect entire rivers, all ways in which it very it can very substantially disrupt a natural ecosystem and it could be very harmful to all the wildlife that is living there.
So that's obviously one very bad thing.
The second very bad thing is that it's also really bad for like the wildlife there because they're all reliant on like their current sources of water or if you like have fishes the fishes may not be able to like get through the damn properly so it may disrupt their like mating patterns and their survival patterns and they can die and all of that would be really bad too.
Dams can also be really bad because they can increase the likelihood of like flooding and things like that because when you disrupt like natural waterways to like hold water back, it becomes increasingly likely that you're going to in like in like instances of adverse weather there could be flooding and things like that so all of that is really bad like like tennessee valley authority dams in like from like the new deal era like there is like a whole lot of problems with like flooding as a result of dams and things like that so that was like pretty bad.
And then compare this to solar energy.
Solar energy is great.
Solar energy doesn't really have any problems and is like more or less as efficient as hydroelectrive dams hydroelectric dams and in the long run it's going to be more efficient because as strong of an energy source running water can be, nothing is a more powerful source of energy than literally the sun because the sun is the most powerful source of energy that we know of and if we're able to harness source of energy then we're really going to have all of our energy needs met in our entirety and we won't even really need hydroelectric dams or other things like that.
And solar energy can be more ubiquitous because the sun shines in most places in the world, at least like a decent amount of the year so that's like a really good thing that it has going for it.
And the final thing that I want to talk about is why this is necessarily zero sum, why you can't just invest in both and why you can invest in hydroelectric dams but not other things too.
And the problem is that when you invest cause infrastructure projects, especially energy infrastructure projects, cost a whole lot of money and once you have like the new energy that's sorted to a specific kind of energy, once you have a new energy grid, you're not going to be very inclined to just spend a whole lot of money again on a completely new energy grid that's going to make all of the money you just spent obsolete.
So like this would be one of the examples for why we have such a dependence on fossil fuels right now, why we all drive gas cars.
We already have electric cars, a lot of electric cars are already as cheap as oil based cars.
They're better for the environment, there's really no reason why we shouldn't all be driving electric cars.
The reason why we don't do that is because the infrastructure is in place for oil cars already en masse.
There's gas stations everywhere but not really for so like electric charging stations.
Similarly and things like that.
So it's for all of those reasons that we think that it's very important that you do not invest further in hydroelectric dams.