We should abandon vows of celibacy because first, it decreases participation in the church, and secondarily, from a theological perspective, there are solid arguments that you don't actually really need to have it in the first place.
So let's start by talking about the impacts that actually has on priests, preachers, bishops and also the impact it has on participation in catholic life.
First and foremost, I think that most people think that the vows of celibacy are kind of stupid.
Most people don't really follow it in their day to day lives, because for the average person having sex and enjoying it is a rather basic human pleasure that nobody is really willing to actually get rid of.
And I think that there's no reason to believe that like people who are a part of the clergy feel any differently.
Because even if you're very religious, that doesn't mean that you're , you're still a person.
You still a sexual urges, sexual desires, and you're still and you still have emotions that make you wanna do these things.
So I think that it's very likely that a lot of people could be deterred from actually getting involved in the catholic church and in the clergy because they don't really want to give up sex.
They don't give up relationships with romantic relationships, because those are pretty fundamental things that people enjoy.
So I think that in a time in which like the church is essentially declining from day to day life, this further perception of it being outdated and like problematic is is pretty problematic for the church.
And I think that even more so it could be possibly a reason why we've had a whole lot of instances of pedophilia in the church.
Because a whole lot of , a whole lot of people in the clergy have probably extremely repressed sexual emotions after literally like decades of not being able to have like romantic contact with women.
You're essentially in a choice between like violating your vows and not doing so.
But I also think that from a theological perspective, there's no real reason why you need to keep it.
Obviously there's a whole lot of history, theological history in the catholic church itself for having this, but when you go back to like the very basics of like christianity, I don't really think that it's as necessary.
Because one of the biggest things that like jesus teaches is that like you want to like do good for others, you want to do good, be charitable, and live your life in a positive way.
And I feel like in a lot of ways having romantic interactions and expressing love is very much in line with a lot of what jesus taught.
But furthermore I also think that we are talking about like your interactions and belief in god.
Just because like your like gonna have sex with somebody doesn't mean that you believe in god any less.
And it doesn't really actually impact the relationship you have with god.
In a lot of, like you could argue that god created people, god created people's emotions, god created the pleasure and enjoyment that comes with sex.
They did it because god wants people to enjoy that part of life.
Because it's a very important part of life.
So I really don't see any reason why from either like a pragmatic standpoint or from a theological standpoint, you can't abandon vows of celibacy.