Prohibiting flag burning is an awful idea, and I think the mark of an incredibly oppressive and unjust thing.
We should definitely keep the status quo of flag burning being legal and constitutionally protected.
I think that there's a couple of reasons for this: first, because I think that flag burning is definitely one of the most important acts of the freedom of expression, it's one of the most important ways in which you can critique society, and I think that banning flag burning is essentially a way which you have forced respect for the state, even if it ought not exist.
And I think that, it's also important because the means of flag burning itself is an incredibly powerful way to actually protest.
So, let's talk about these things.
I think that first, it's important to recognize why people engage in flag burning at all, and I think that the reason for that is because they believe that the state does things that are unjust, and this is the way which they protest.
Historically, this can happen with it is historically in america, at least that what happen with things like the vietnam war, when people saw was incredibly unjust and oppressive.
More recently, this can be things like trump with his muslim ban, trump with his immigration, and like his wall, trump with just about anything else he does, or like the oppression of black people in society, and like the black lives matter movements, resistance to that.
I think these are all incredibly important and pressing issues, that the united states engages in structural oppression regarding.
So this is important, because the idea behind the flag being a protected or venerated object, is that the flag is a source of pride and respect, its a representation of america and american values.
However, I think this is a problem, because I think that the reason people burn flags is because they're critiquing a lot of bad things, which america, or any other country that they' whose flag they're burning, their critiquing this country, they're saying that: look they're doing very very bad things, there are things that I'm not proud of, and I don't want to be associated with.
This is the ultimate expression of freedom of speech, this is the ultimate expression of your opinions and values, because by prohibiting flag burning, you're forcing people to take pride in the flag, you're forcing people to put respect in the flag, but, the reason why people should respect the flag, because, just because it's a flag, or just because you are american or anything, doesn't mean that there's a desert claim to that respect.
It's something that has to be it something that has to be earned, and I think that's the real key that we're talking about here.
There's no point in having pride in the flag, unless there's unless you believe that there's worth putting pride in it.
It's, why it's there?
Is the basic idea freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of expression.
Different people are going to have different values of what's important, and what's being respected.
And this is why it's so important to make sure that flag burning stays legal.
But I additionally think that, from a more mechanistic standpoint as opposed to a values based standpoint, flag burning is a uniquely important way to actually express your views, and I think that a reason for it is because it is so politically controversial, because it is so politically loaded.
When you burn a flag in protest, it guarantees coverage, it guarantees discussion, and it guarantees debate.
And that's incredibly important, because if you want to have your voice heard, it's important to do it in this way.
You know what?
It's very easy for standing powers of government, or institutions with power, to not listen to the voices of people who are being oppressed.
One of the best ways of forcing engagement with you is by engaging in more perceptually, or optically radical actions, that lead to controversy, and this controversy necessitates engagement.
This is and this is incredibly important, but I also think that additionally the way in which you protest is incredibly expressive of your values as well.
This is the reason why a lot of like feminists engage in things like slut walks, or why a lot of black people use rap as a means of protest, I think that the way in which you protest is incredibly powerful means of getting your message out there, and getting your message to your own people as well.
So for all those reasons, very proud to oppose the prohibition of flag burning.