We should disband asean because it is wildly ineffective and because its very existence precludes more attractive alternatives for international relations that would exist like direct bilateral negotiations or regional multilateral negotiations.
So let's start by talking about the fact that it's grossly inefficient and ineffective.
And this is crucial because if it's shown that asean doesn't actually do anything, it can't actually get anything done that it might as well be disbanded because it's not really doing anything by its existence and I think that this is very likely the case, and the reason for that is because it's very difficult to find a consensus on issues.
It's rather foolish to look at southeast asia as just this like unified block that doesn't have disagreements because they have drastically different cultures, they have drastically different languages oftentimes, different religions, different socio economic situations, different social priorities, there's all different kinds of policies.
So it's likely very difficult on any kind of whether it's security, international dimension, policies, economic priorities in trade, all of these things are are just a quagmire and therefore it's probably difficult to get a unanimous opinion on anything.
So you're probably not actually losing anything by this.
So I think that that's very important because this ineffectiveness ultimately crowds out a more effective avenue and that is direct bilateral negotiations.
So I think that direct bilateral negotiations between these countries as opposed to trying to just work through this one big block is going to be better for three big reasons.
The first reason why it's going to be better is because these deals are necessarily going to be smaller in scope.
So rather than just trying to have like just one group which is going to try to govern over everything, you can make individual agreements on specific matters of agreement.
So it's going to be much more precise.
So people are going to be much more likely able to like work out things and then take concrete action in it rather than these things just getting lost in like a bigger type of plan.
Secondarily I think these things are just going to be faster.
When in addition to being smaller in scope when you're also only going to have two actors, all of this is going to make negotiations faster.
It makes decision making faster for enforcement.
It makes like response times of various things faster, and all of that is very important because a deal is great but if the deal is ultimately not executable because you can't ever agree on how to carry out various terms of it then you're not really getting a deal there.
So you're much more likely able to actually achieve that when you have these bilateral negotiations.
And finally, I think that these are just going to be more active.
They're going to be stronger because I think that generally when someone wants to take a bold position on something or like a bolder social policy, a bolder intervention, a bolder kind of action, these generally are the ones that are uniquely difficult to actually have unanimous opinion for and this is important because sometimes these actions are necessary to be taken for some countries.
Sometimes it's a drastic economic policy because of it and maybe some countries it's necessary for them but you can't get everyone to agree on it.
This is important because when you're having a smaller group of people you can get the most concerned parties to actually act on it.
So now you're going to actually be able to get more help legislation not just not just more precise and faster but also stronger legislation stronger action more necessary action and it is for all of those reasons that I think that we should disband asean.