Open source software is advantageous.
First, because it leads to a drop in the price of technology, which is incredibly important for ensuring access to technology, and second, it ultimately results in an evolution of of tech in a more flexible way, and in ultimately more superior.
Let's start by talking about cost, and about why this is so important.
Keep in mind that, in modern society, having access to certain software is not really optional.
Being able to do even basic things, like send an email as a form of communication with somebody, or being able to use, like, microsoft word, so you can write a research paper, or using excel spreadsheets, or using more advanced programs like photoshop or things like that, or video editing, there is an endless list of resources, there's an endless list of software that is necessary for just about any career that, you can , not any, but most careers that you have nowadays.
So, this incredibly important, because when you're talking about individual people, first and foremost, these technologies, when you grant monopolies on them, when they're not open source, these technologies can be priced at whatever the the sole proprietor wants them to be.
So, if microsoft is the only person that has control over it, this means the software can be exorbitantly expensive, and it it prices out a lot of people.
The impact of this is that like, you're going to only see the most successful companies, the most successful corporations, or the most successful individuals, they're able to afford access.
So, this gives them a head start, or this gives them an advantage over other people.
So, if you're a corporation that is better able to afford superior software, you're going to, even if you already already had that advantage, your advantage is now even further compounded by your access to superior technology.
So, in a lot of ways that monopoly precipitates even more monopolies, and even more advantages being given, and it breaks down a lot of free competition, it breaks down a lot of competition in the marketplace, and it breaks down a lot of choice in the marketplace.
I also think that, it prevents the tech it prevents the evolution of tech in a couple of ways: first, I actually think that, open source software can oftentimes be more secure, and the reason for that is because I think that, by and large, individuals, very like driven individuals, with tech backgrounds, are oftentimes better at breach, like finding possible security breaches, or possible vulnerabilities, than corporations can be.
Like you, there's obviously a whole lot of high profile hacking incidents that we see, in current society, and on almost regular basis we see a lot of security breaches, in many aspects of life.
And the reason for this is because, a lot of corporations and companies that have proprietary software, aren't as good at keeping up with possible vulnerabilities, and I think that when you allow fresh sets of eyes to look over these softwares, when you more like spread these things out, you allow more people to spot possible vulnerabilities.
So, that's a good way to make sure that you got greater security.
But, I also think that it results in better products altogether, because it prevents an echo chamber of ideas, by insuring more of a collaboration of ideas.
So, you're better able to take the best ideas, because everyone is contributing bits and pieces of ideas, and you're better able to construct a whole idea that, is going to be a whole lot better.
So, for all of those reasons, open source software is advantageous.