We should use and further exploit hydroelectric dams because they're quite an effective and wonderful alternative to fossil fuels that are pretty necessary in this current time.
So let's start by talking about why the predominant source of energy that we rely on in the way of fossil fuels is so harmful.
So fossil fuels constitute the vast majority of the way in which we get electricity and that's a really big problem because fossil fuels are hugely polluting in in a lot of ways they're polluting in terms of extraction, whether you're having a coal mine or natural gas lines or oil drilling and possibly oil spills, fracking, which results in chemical run off, like there's all kinds of ways in which every level of the fossil fuel industry is really problematic for the environment.
Results in absolutely horrible things happening.
And those are just the like the more discernible impacts in a direct way.
But there's also obviously the impacts that fossil fuels have on climate change which are really nothing short of a catastrophe in the long run because whether it's rising sea levels, inability to have food, like widespread food shortages because of crop failures, natural disasters that wipe out entire islands, there's all kinds of ways in which climate change is absolutely going to destroy large portions of the world and that's like a horribly bad thing.
So we want to start now by reducing fossil fuel use and carbon dioxide release.
So a good way to do that is by alternative sources of energy and hydroelectric dams are one of those very good ways.
So there's a couple of reasons why they're a really good alternative: first, obviously, they're clean.
There's no CO_2 emission that's happening when you're just using water to spin a turbine as a way to make electricity.
Hydroelectric dams are very clean and that's great.
But additionally, there also is something that's been existent for a while there's something that we have experience in using and it's something that the technology exists right now.
So it's not like solar energy where the technology is still in it's a lot earlier stages and it can be a lot more expensive to do and things like that.
Hydroelectric dams while expensive are still like projects that we can use that work really well and we've used them before in history and it worked out great.
But third and most importantly, they can be applied in a widespread area.
Because while because the vast majority of the people in the world live near a source of water.
People live people just because it's really useful in terms of like food access, irrigation purposes, shipping access and things like that.
So that's like the big reason why, if you look at a big if you look at a map of where people live in the world, by and large they live near the water whether it's a coastline or a river or something like that and that's important because that means that you can put hydroelectric dams in areas that are close to population centers.
So that's like helpful because it means that you can reduce like shipping cost, you can have the energy available more closely, which is different from like fossil fuels which sometimes have to be shipped around the world or shipped which can only contribute to cost and things like that and it allows so that's a really good alternative.
But finally, this could also be useful for flood controls because, since global warming is inevitably happening anyway, you might as well have an ability to control floods with dams.
And dams can be useful for that because you can regulate water flow in really useful ways that can be helpful in flood prevention.
So for all those reasons we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.