Privatizing privatizing social security in the united states is an awful idea, and we definitely shouldn't do it.
First and foremost, I think that privatizing social security is just political coating for a eliminating it, or drastically reducing it altogether, and that's bad.
And secondarily, even in its even in the best form of some kind of privatization scheme, I still think that's less preferable than what we have right now.
So first, why do I think that this is essentially political coating for elimination?
Because I think that, political coating is incredibly popular in a lot of ways, and they use like these sexy words, like privatization to replace things that are less popular like elimination.
So things like a elimination of like, entitlement programs, is like a much like nicer sounding way of saying: eliminating programs that make sure people don't starve.
The way in which you like phrase things matters.
Or calling someone like calling like a black person a thug, for example could be a way of like dehumanizing that, and making you more willing to have tough on crime policies, wanting to be like religiously like, wanting to revert to like traditional values, or religious values, is like code for discrimination against gay people in a lot of contexts, things like that.
Political coding is a very common and prominent way of trying to sneak in politically unpopular things, that are going to screw people over, and I think this is definitely one of them.
First and foremost, because I don't even trust a little bit people who are pushing privatization, the people who are pushing privatization are republicans, and I think that they're republicans who don't care about poor people, and don't care about minorities.
And I think that that's just first of all true, but secondarily I think like the like alleged plans for privatizing social security have so many flaws in it, it's clear they just want to cut them.
So like first, these privatization schemes oftentimes come with drastic cuts to social security, which is very bad, because millions of people like rely on social security, so they can live after retirement.
But additionally, the way in which this is going to work, like, possibly giving like block grants to the state levels, in reality when we did this with when we did this with welfare, this just became like, it gutted welfare, it just became a bunch of like individual slush funds for states,so they could use them whenever they wanted to, or things like that.
But like, even in like the best case scenario of a privatization scheme, it's still going to be worse off, and the reason for that is because private these private investing like these private investment corporations, things like that, are going to be investing your money, managing your retirement assets.
The profit motive associated with it is necessarily going to come with risk for abuse.
Now this is obviously true of all other industries, like in the same way in which you can see abuses in like the stock market, or things like that, they can lead to maybe like a housing crash or whatever, I think that it's uniquely bad in this case, first and foremost, because we're talking about people's life savings, the money that they are going to rely on and live upon.
And secondarily, because there's going to be like, when you're privatizing something, there's already an underlying animosity against government intervention.
So I don't really foresee people passing a privatization scheme being all of looking all that fondly on regulation of this private industry, because there's like this faulty idea that like, the freer the market the better the market, even if it's going to screw more people over.
So I think that this privatization scheme would very likely come with inherent inherent profit seeking abuses, by people more likely to take risks, more likely in seeing people just like lose their money altogether.
And it's happening, because there's going to be an unwillingness to ultimately regulate this private industry, because of this fetishization of the free market.
So for all those reasons, we should not privatize social security.