We should privatize social security cause it's both going to be an act of necessity and because it maximizes individual choice with people's money and their economic futures.
And I think that's very important to people in a free society like america.
So let's start by talking about why privatizing social security is going to be necessary.
Because keep in mind that as older people like baby boomer generation, as older people get older and there's a lot of them and as they keep living longer and longer, the percentage of old people relying on social security is only going to keep growing.
Meanwhile we're seeing like historically high rates of like for example, youth unemployment, wages for younger people are often times more stagnant, so you're seeing up and coming generations that simply aren't going to be able to support older people in the same way that prior generations were able to because like the worker ratios aren't going to be the same.
They're simply not going to be the capacity to support these kinds of things.
However you don't want to make sure that you're like wholesale gutting these systems and minimizing benefit.
So one way that you can do that is by privatizing it and creating like hybrid responsibilities so that way less of the onus falls on the state to set up a system that it's not really going to be able to maintain and more falls on individual people.
And I think that that's going to be quite good for a few reasons.
So like first and foremost most people in america get sources of revenue like from retirement accounts that aren't social security amounts anyway like a whole lot of people have like like IRA accounts or roth IRAs, people have pension plans with like employers and things like that, so a whole lot of people have like almost like a web of different ways in which they get retirement benefits and social security is only one of those benefits.
And a lot of those other systems besides social security are already private.
And for the most part they work out fine.
Obviously, sometimes there's hiccups with it, but there's hiccups with social security as well.
For the most part it gives these people more choice, more opportunities, and more ways to decide how they want to invest their own money.
And that final thing is rather crucial because the way in which you want to invest your own money can be like a pretty personal decision.
It's a personal decision that it can reflect your level of risk that you're willing to take, it can reflect who you're willing to give your money to, like there's a whole lot of people who may not want to invest in things that the government wants to invest in.
People may have different opinions about where markets are going and things like that.
And it's perfectly fine if you do these kinds of things.
And people should be able to make those choices with their money if they want to.
So those are definitely reasons why from like a rights perspective as far as money that people have spent their entire lives earning so that way they can support themselves in their retirement like their retirement is supposed to be the like years in which they can just kind of enjoy life, enjoy the fruits, enjoy a lifetime of work.
And they should be able to maximize that enjoyment by investing the way in which they want to do so.
So for all those reasons we should privatize social security.