Abstinence only sex education is absolutely horrible, and only fools and idiots actually support it.
Or people who are just evil.
Or crazy.
So let's talk about why, because first, I think that abstinence only sex education is immoral, and second I think it's grossly ineffective and wildly obscene.
So first, let's talk about why sex abstinence only sex education is just immoral.
Let's not sugarcoat what abstinence only sex education is, it's trying to force archaic christian religious values onto an oftentimes unwilling more modern and progressive populace.
What this looks like, is oftentimes using scare tactics, like I don't know, you're going to you know get like pregnant and die if you have sex, or you'll get this big spooky disease, inherently by having sex.
It glosses over the nuances of what this actually entails.
It's trying to scare people into living in a certain kind of a lifestyle, and I think this is quite bad, because honestly there's nothing wrong with sex, there's nothing wrong with having sex, we shouldn't shame people for having sex, or wanting to have sex.
It's just like a very like natural thing that humans want to do, it's fun, it's enjoyable, there's nothing wrong with it, there's no reason why we should shame it, and there's no reason why we shouldn't emphasize a focus on it.
This is, like, there like being ready for sex is like being ready for like driving a car.
It's just like a part of getting older, it's something that happens, you don't have to wait until marriage, whether that happens in like in like your thirties or something like that, like it's absolutely ridiculous, and it's archaic, and it's and it's ridiculous that we have institutions that try to force this lifestyle onto people.
But, second, and even more perniciously, is just how ineffective an unsafe abstinence only sex education is.
There is a reason why the rates of unwanted pregnancies, and the rates of STI and STD like like STD affliction are a whole lot higher in abstinence only education states, in like the deep south in america, than they are in more progressive and sane places like massachusetts.
And the reason for this is because shockingly, people do not buy into absence only sex education.
Because it is such an inherent part of like human life, people tend to have sex anyway.
So since this is just true, how are you going to best make sure that people actually do this in a safe and responsible and educated way?
Well, a good way to start doing that is by educating people.
When you do not actually educate them on like, how to like use condoms or access condoms, what are different kinds of birth controls that you can access, what are like the best ways to prevent like access to like STD's and things like that, all of these things are very important, because you feel more educated.
But additionally, sense you're fostering when you have abstinence only sex education, like what I talked about earlier, you're fostering in a culture that almost shame sex.
So you're going to be less willing to seek out help, you're going to be less willing to seek out contraceptives, you're going to be less willing to seek out an abortion, all of these things are less likely to happen, because you feel like society is going to shun you, or society is going to condemn you, and all of that is happening simply because you have sex.
This is absolutely horrible.
This results in a lot of the like destruction of lives for youth.
There are more people who have unwanted pregnancies, and don't feel comfortable getting out of it, or don't know how to get out of it, because of like the way in which they grew up, and that's just not something that we should have.
It leads to like more of affliction of diseases, more wide spreading of diseases, because people don't know the best ways to combat that, all of these things are just inherently worse, and none of these things are intrinsic to sex.
There's ways to have sex without pregnancy, there's ways to have sex without spreading of diseases, billions of people do it all the time.
And we should focus on that.
So for all those reasons, abstinence only sex education is absolutely horrible, it definitely brings more harm than good.