We should legalize polygamy because people should have the right to marry whomever and however many people they want and beyond that there's a lot of genuinely good reasons people may have for wanting to marry multiple individuals.
So let's start by talking about why this is simply something that people should have the right to.
And I think that this starts with the fact that marriage is only important in a cultural sense and as like a way of like signaling legitimacy of a union basically.
Like the only difference between gay marriage between a same between a same sex couple and a civil union is basically the signal that it provides.
The way in which these people are looked upon.
And I think that that's important because I think that regardless of whom you want to be with or how many people you want to be with I think that you should exist in a society that's free of public scorn, free of public scrutiny, and a society that is generally accepting of your life choices, especially when we're talking about something so personal as the people that you love.
And I think that this is kind of ridiculous because you have like open relationships where people can be in a relationship with multiple individuals, hooking up with multiple individuals, and that's something that is rather accepted now and it's something that a lot of people don't really bat an eye at.
Some people may not agree with it but you certainly wouldn't do anything nor could you do anything to literally ban somebody from dating multiple people at the same time.
So it's kind of ridiculous that you can have relationships with with multiple individuals at the same time but you just can't get this official designation as marrying these people.
And I think that's ridiculous because in the same way in which like if you have a relationship with one person and you happen to like them enough and you want to start a life with them and you want to marry them, I don't really see why the mere fact that there is multiple people means that it's any less worthy of a state sanctioning or a cultural acceptance that comes with marriage.
But beyond that I think that there's a lot of genuinely good reasons that people have for wanting to get married to multiple people in the first place.
And obviously a big one is religious reasons.
A lot of religions have a whole lot of polygamy like judaism, islam, mormonism, like there's been a whole lot of instances throughout religious history where individuals have been married to multiple people.
And if that's something that they think is like it that's something that is acceptable within their religion that means that it's acceptable within their value system.
And I think it's important to make sure that you're trying to be as accommodating as possible, especially because it's not like there's any real harm to polygamy like if people are getting married to two people I don't really see how it actually hurts anybody, how it actually affects anybody, it doesn't really do anything at all.
They're just married to multiple people now.
It doesn't affect anyone.
I don't really see why the government should have any say over that whatsoever.
So obviously if there is a religious reason that does exist, that should clearly be overriding because there's no real reason that you should have to regulate that.
It doesn't hurt anyone, it's ridiculous to try to like regulate private norms in such a way.
And also additionally it's completely legitimate that people may want to marry multiple individuals.
Like, for example, maybe you're a bisexual person and you want to marry both a man and a woman because that's the best way in which you're going to like really like truly act on your preferences.
Like it's you're most likely to be happy that way maybe and you don't want to just like pick and choose between one person or another person.
And like there's a whole lot of people who feel that way.
A ton of people are bi.
Or maybe you just don't want to have like you don't want to be tied down to a single person and you're going to be like in a happier marriage if you're with multiple people, if you're able to be with multiple people with your life.
And that's probably something that could be good too, like there's a lot of divorces that happen in this around the world.
Clearly marriage is broken in a lot of ways.
People should be able to have marriages in a way in which they want to do so because marriage is nothing more than a life than like maybe a life long relationship with somebody and that should be ultimately up to you.
So for all those reasons you should allow polygamy.