In this debate we assume that there is agreement that in general children can't work.
We think this exists for two reasons.
One, is because given children can't make the rational long term decision about whether to work and earn now verses later, working at a young age is generally harmful for a child's ability to work in the future, because he lacks an education, and therefore we choose that trade-off for them, we go for education.
Secondly, because work often actively does undue harm to a child, either physically or psychologically.
We're going to talk about both of those things.
Now imagine if I told you that we should allow children to work in a mine.
You said of course not, that's ridiculous, and I said don't worry, we'll limit the hours that they're allowed to work, we'll make sure some of the pay is put aside for the child themselves, we'll even make sure that they still get an education down there, next to the canary and the, you know, dust and whatever.
You'll say well that's not fair, that's not the same, that's physical harmful damage to the child, because a mine is is crazy.
What if you let him work in an ice cream shop, maybe that would be better.
We think acting, or in general performing, is more similar to the mine.
Because we think the level of psychological harm it does to a child is as great or greater than the level of physical harm that a mine would do to a child.
Why does this psychological harm exists?
Four reasons.
A, the press creates psychological harm by hounding the child, what the child does, and the child's family.
We think a child, at the point at which he's able to perform at least to some degree, is aware of what the press is saying.
We think that's even more true today than it was in the past, when those press stories are shared on twitter, on facebook, etcetera, all things that children often have.
Secondly, fans.
We think the emotional pressure of having so many people adore you and depend on you is massive.
It means that the pressure of any misstep is amplified tens and hundreds of times than the pressure that exists on a regular normal child, and children already today, regular children, fear missteps.
We think that creates psychological harm.
C, we think the family pressure to continue, to succeed, to strive, is greater than in most almost anything, because of the adoration that society holds for actors.
This means that the family cares more than in general if the child succeeds, if the child is adored by the public, if the child gets another job, so that he can grow up to be a great actor.
That adds psychological pressure.
Lastly, we think there is a problem with friends, in that from a very young age the child does not believe in true friendship, because most of his friends will be around him simply because he's a TV star, or at least will be perceived as such, and that creates psychological harm.
All of this is why you see people like drew barrymore, like macaulay culkin, like pretty much any child star, going through at the very least a phase of massive drug addiction, and and psychological problems.
That's irresponsible and should not be allowed to happen.
Secondly, we think this limits their future potential.
They'll say, look this gives them a chance at stardom.
That's true, it's a chance.
It also means they have no chance at anything other than stardom.
Given the percentage of child actors who succeed as adult actors later is only marginally higher than the percentage of people who succeed at being stars at all, and that these people are now losing an education, losing the ability to develop normal relationships, losing the ability to find a normal job, we think their options are being substantially more limited.
So by any measure that you think regular child labor should be limited, child performance should be banned as well.