In this debate, we strongly oppose recall votes, because we think the notion of a consistent never-ending election determined by referendum, if the most counterproductive way you can possibly run a government.
One point of counterfactual framing.
Proposition seems to, seem to be arguing this debate in a vacuum.
As if it's either recall vote, or no way of control.
We say there are two such ways of control.
One, regular elections, but more importantly, there do exist mechanisms in which a government can be overthrown by political parties and the supreme court, things like impeachment in the united states, things like, votes of distrust in the UK.
Crucially, the difference is, these mechanisms are controlled by other parties in government, parties who both have the interest in taking down other parties when those aren't doing their jobs, but also a continuous interest in doing their jobs properly in order to represent their constituencies.
This will lead us into why we think an ever-involved citizen is a terrible idea for democracy.
Before that, two points of extraneous rebuttal.
First, they say on prop, look these people aren't doing their jobs.
Why, short term memory leads to, a constituency that doesn't remember the platform and therefore they're not held accountable.
We don't think that's how people work.
See, what happens is you don't remember the platform perhaps, but you do remember your situation five years ago, and you compare it to your situation today.
If you feel you're better off than you were then, that you vote to reelect.
If you feel you are worse off, than you vote to replace.
The minutia of bills that were passed and votes that were voted on shouldn't, and don't, affect whether or not you revote but rather, how your situation has changed.
We think that's excellent.
Secondly, they say political engagement will go substantially up.
We think they mis-characterize what it is that most people want.
Most people don't want to be politically engaged twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, etcetera etcetera.
Most people want to elect someone then just trust that someone to do what it is that they're being hired to do.
Why, most people don't have the ability to follow politics that closely all of the time.
By making an ever-existant elections you're essentially leaving politics to those rich people who can afford to spend half their time on the internet googling the latest news of politicians.
We think that's wrong.
As it is, people have a difficulty keeping up with all the politics, on your side of the house you just make it worse.
When they say, look, now politicians will spend more time with their constituencies, how do either of them have time for that if you want the politician to be working on passing bills properly, and the people to be starting out an economy on the outside.
Let's talk about why elections are terrible.
Election times are infamous for waste.
They're a waste of money because people spend their time campaigning, they're are a waste of resources because people spend their time their efforts going state to state talking to people, convincing people, setting up platforms, and crucially, they mean, you're not doing any actual parliamentary work during this time.
It's well known that laws don't happen and things don't happen the year before a new election.
We think by making it constant elections, you ensure that no politician ever has time to actually do their job because they're constantly busy trying to convince people that they're nonetheless doing their job.
Why is it so crucial when it's based on citizens, unlike governing parties those are subject to whims.
It means it only takes one crazy person with a bunch of followers on twitter in order to restart an entire campaign election.
Governments show restraint, individuals do not do so.
This means that if you want to make a better world tomorrow and not just have accountability for it but actually do it, you need to leave the politicians breathing room in order to do their jobs, please oppose.