Two reasons we think we should implement goal-line technology.
One is because we think sports are about values, and honesty is one of those values.
Two, because we want credibility towards investors.
Sporting is a serious business, and within business you have an obligation towards truthfulness in that business.
Before that, let's make this a little explain what we're talking about.
So basically goal-line technology enables the referee to get playback of certain plays or goals, etcetera, to rewatch those and then to adjust calls based on those.
So, for example, if a referee isn't sure if a football player hit the ball with his head or with his hand before it went into the goal, he could rewatch that and only then decide to make the call about whether or not that was a fair goal.
Let's talk first about values within sports.
So basically, we think sporting events are a uniting factor for groups of people who congregate around the idea, the nationhood, as it were, of their team in their sport.
Within that, we think the sport has a very high responsibility towards values, similar to the way we say religion or nations are held to higher account than and individual or even a business because of the meaningfulness that they have to large groups of people and the esteem in which they're held.
We think sports are similar in that matter, in their effect on people and, therefore, in their responsibility towards people.
Where else do we see this?
Note that while an academic, for example, is allowed to take ritalin because it would enhance his performance in academia, an athlete is not allowed to take performance-enhancing drugs.
Why?
Because we recognize that even making the game more enjoyable to watch by improving the performance of the participants, is not worth the trust that people put into the sport and the values of hard work that the sport espouses.
Similarly, we think sport espouses a value of truthfulness and honesty.
That value is better met at a point at which, a: the spectators are aware that calls that are made can be checked, and b: the referees are aware that they themselves can be checked.
At that point, we think there's greater trust in the calls made and therefore, it better espouses the values of truth and honestly.
Secondly, we think sports are a money machine.
Team owners are heavily invested.
Players are heavily invested.
But more than that, individual people are enormously heavily invested, either through betting or through emotional investment within their team.
When something is that important, both emotionally and financially, to that many people, we think if we are able to hold it to account, we should do so.
It is unfair if a team wins using an illegal goal.
If we have the mechanisms in which to stop that and to support the thousands of people invested in that game and in its proper outcomes, we think we absolutely should use those mechanisms.
For these reasons, we support goal-line technology.