We should ban cosmetic surgery.
When we talk about cosmetic surgery, we're discussing cosmetic non-reconstructive surgery, with a possible exception for surgery for disfiguration, things like cleft lip.
We think returning people to normal looks is is fine if they're born disfigured, and obviously if they've been through a car accident etcetera, that's fine, that's medical.
So, two arguments as to why we should ban cosmetic surgery.
One is on the propagation of unnatural beauty norms, and two is on public deceit.
Let's talk about the propagation of unnatural beauty norms.
So government are going to come in here opposition are going to come in here and they're going to argue that these women don't feel beautiful, they don't feel powerful, and opting in rationally to these surgeries make these individual women happier.
And and they're one hundred percent right about that, to a limited extent about how much these people actually feel happier afterwards, obviously.
But here's the problem.
They end up perpetuating a cycle.
We think there is a collective action problem, whereby society chooses the top of the crop of beautiful women, and portrays those women to the rest of society as a standard.
The rest of society applies that standard to itself, feels bad about itself because it can't meet that standard, end up developing a lot of terrible terrible things, such as eating disorders, such as teen suicide, such as depression.
And then some of those people, either by cosmetic surgery or by moral luck, become beautiful and repeat the entire cycle.
So for each individual within society, it does in fact make sense to have this surgery and become the cream of the crop, that one beautiful person.
However for society as a whole, they are harmed by people opting in to this cycle and thereby perpetuating it.
We think the worst case scenario alternative is that some people are beautiful simply because they were born beautiful, and those people are still paraded.
Even within that, we think the emotional stress and harm done to the rest of society in a situation in which they know that there's nothing they can do about it, that it's just a question of genes and how you're born, means that they're less obsessed with it, less depressed with it.
The same way, few people walk around being depressed about how bad they are at basketball.
Even under that scenario, and that is a scenario by the way that assumes that some people are born as beautiful as can be attained through intervention by a surgery, which we think is unlikely at least within large numbers, we're better off blocking this market problem, solving this collection active collective action problem by not allowing people to get plastic surgery.
The second argument we're going to make is that this constitutes deceit.
Assessing people based on their looks is in many cases wrong and frowned upon.
However, within relationships, it is in fact quite legitimate to assess people based on their looks and decide whether or not you're attracted to someone.
One of the reasons for this, in fact we think the main reason for this is evolutionary and primal.
The looks of your partner have a large determining effect in the looks of your children.
We think what ends up happening is a lot of people are deceived into a relationship that includes marriage and childbearing, based on false information presented to them due to surgery.
Now they'll say oh, this is just a few, but note most people end up getting married, so of all of the people who have plastic surgery, we think it's quite a few of them who end up getting people to sign marriage contracts and have lifelong children, based on false information.
For these reasons we think you should propose the motion and ban plastic surgery.