From porn and hacking to cyber bullying and identity theft, there are many many negative things that exist in the internet.
However, three strong claims to positive outcomes that the internet has.
One, information, two, communication, and three, progression of democracy.
In order to make this more interesting, we're not going to try and compare apples and oranges.
Rather, we're going to talk about those three things and see if the internet really has done more harm than good.
First, let's talk about information.
So a couple of things that are important to note.
They're going to claim that this information exists because of the internet.
We claim that's untrue.
We think most of the information exists regardless of the internet, and becomes widely available and accessible because of the internet.
That accessibility, we think, is actually a net harm.
Why?
Humans only have the capacity to process so much data.
This means that the amount of information available on the internet is far greater than that that of any human's ability to study, which means we're essentially in a constant state of information overload.
Why is that a negative thing?
Because it allows specific individuals with power and means to control the information that's going to be stronger pushed to us.
So, for example, lots of information exists if you're going to search where should I buy a book, on the internet.
However, google is going to first and foremost push amazon to you in order to get that book.
This means that the other information available is unlikely to affect you, because at the point at which you've gotten your information so to speak, you're satiated, and you're unlikely to can to continue to consume an information overload.
So we say the quantities of information existing on the internet mean that the availability of that information is actually a net harm.
Secondly, communication.
The internet enables you to more easily communicate with people who are far from you.
Two things in comparative with that.
One, note that cell phones or phones in general already made it relatively easy to communicate with people who are far away from you.
So the delta in communication with those far from you is small.
Two, the internet actually harms your ability to communicate with those who are close to you.
How does it do that?
By continuously and rapidly changing, the internet has shifted our ability to focus and to concentrate.
It means that our attention span is such that we need new stimuli every three, four seconds at most.
And this reduces our ability to hold a conversation with individuals sitting right in front of us.
This is why you see, for example, six good friend sitting at a restaurant all playing on their phones, trying to get other external stimuli that are not there in front of them.
So perhaps to some minor degree, it enabled us to better communicate with those far from us, but the internet as a whole, with its influx of information and stimuli, has made it more difficult for us to communicate effectively with those closest to us.
We say that's a net harm.
Lastly, on democracy.
They'll say that twitter is what enabled the arab spring.
We will say in response to this two things.
One, we admit that there was a point in time at which the internet may have been helpful for democracy.
We say oppressive regimes have learned to use the internet and to quash quicker and quieter gatherings that happen over the internet by shutting down VPNs and and internet as a whole, through shutting down entire websites like twitter, and tracking IP addresses to jail those behind the screen names.
Secondly, we say the world as a whole has not been democratizing over the last twenty years with the internet.
In fact, it's been going backwards recently, with alt right uprisings all across the world, with countries like syria squashing human rights all over the board.
We say evidence would show that they that the internet is ineffective in assisting democracy.
For all these reasons, we say the internet does more harm than good.