Two things we're going to talk about in my speech today.
One, on why distinct languages matter, and two, on how a global language is the new form of colonialization.
Before that, one point of extraneous rebuttal.
Everything james tells you is premised on the notion that a global language is necessary in order to facilitate communications between speakers of different languages.
James is living in the past, he's living fifty years ago, where in order to communicate between a french speaker and a german speaker, they had to somehow speak the same language.
We say that's no longer true.
That's no longer true because translation devices are now available in the market in such high quality, that they enable individuals to communicate immediately while speaking two entirely different language languages.
Even if this isn't quite yet the case, we think this is at the cusp of ability, which means the comparative world is one in which each person speaks their own language and potentially other languages as well that they'd be interested in learning, but there is no one particular language that is globally more powerful.
However, they are all able to communicate using technological devices that allow immediate translation of messages from the sender to the receiver.
So first, that responds to the various arguments about economic development, collaboration, localization expenses and cultural exchange leading to tolerance, all premised on the notion that people simply need to be able to understand each other, we say understanding each other is possible even without a global language.
So first, why distinct languages matter.
We think languages, and james seems to accept this, have cultural gravitas that come along with them.
The various nuances of the language teach you and allow you to better represent the culture from which the language comes.
So various expressions of exasperation for example, can teach you about what this culture views as correct and incorrect behavior.
Various idioms within the within within a language can teach you a lot about the history of the people from which this language comes.
So we think distinct languages matter.
Why do we think this gets harmed, or rather how a global language is the new colonialization, because james tells us the alternative is each person speaks their own language.
This is to an extent true.
At home, with family, you can still speak your own language.
But at the point at which your language is pushed entirely out of the international arena, pushed entirely out of business, it means that your ability to communicate is now lesser than the ability of those who speak english as a native language.
It means essentially that all non-english speaking or non-lingua franca speaking native tongue speakers are now disadvantaged in the workforce and disadvantaged in the international arena, because a, they're not as connected to the nuances and social cues of specific language use, and b, they're simply never going to be as adept at using the language unless they give up their initial language, which we already shown you why is so important to their identity.
What does all of this mean?
It means that the international language, quote unquote, is the way that america and england make sure that all the best research universities are still within the realms of america and england, because anyone who wants to study or publish has to do it in english, and the best ability to do so is by people who speak english as a native language at a research facility that speaks english at a native language.
It means that the best ability to do business is still with within countries who have english as a native language, which makes barrier of entry lower in the first place, it means they can choose from all of the crop as opposed to just those people who managed to pick up a second language.
It means at the end of the day, that those nations speaking the lingua franca as their native language maintain economic advantages and control over nations that speak other languages.
We think that unjust, unfair and no longer necessary, and therefore we oppose a global language.