For a lot of this debate, proposition is simply off clash.
This debate is not about having the technology to do instant replays in general.
Note that exists today, sport networks do it all the time.
It's about enabling that technology during the game in a way that allows to overturn calls.
So, within that framework, their first argument is relevant and we'll address it, but arguments about deterring cheating because people know they can get caught due to instant replay, or proper punishment because people can be seen exactly as they've acted, are just irrelevant.
All of that can happen today and we have no problem with it.
Two arguments in today's debate.
One, on sporting as a feat of human capabilities and a referee being part of that sport, and two on the ability to hack the sport.
Before that, two points of rebuttal.
So first, they talk about faith in referees.
They say, we wanna know the ref is doing a good job.
Two arguments.
A, we dispute the notion that people feel less invested in the sport when they think the referee can be wrong.
We think the ability for human error makes people more invested in the sport.
But note that, pl players, do not become less invested in their team members because those can have errors or mess up, in fact, they become more invested because the ability for ups and downs, highs and lows, is what makes the sport so intricate and intriguing.
B, as it stands, you can review it later.
This means you do know when refs make wrong calls.
If that is a particular issue then obviously, you can get rid of referees who consistently make wrong calls.
Next he says the ref is willing to change the call when he has the evidence.
Well, obviously the debate is about whether that's a good thing, no explanation was given.
We'll explain in the first argument why it's a bad thing.
Lastly, he talks to us about rigging matches.
Look, we already tell you why it's not particularly relevant to the motion at hand.
We will talk to you however in the second argument about hacking the sport, and where the real rigging can and will start happening.
First, let's talk about sporting as an event of human capacity.
Look, proposition tells you when things like instant replay are available, you lose things like gamesmanship and sportsmanship.
That's exactly our point.
We think sport exists for the enjoyment of the viewer.
We think the fallibility of the referees is part of the sport.
Otherwise referees wouldn't exist in the first place, and you would just have a few doped up players playing as well as they can, being judged by a computerized point system.
The idea that the referee has to be in it, part of it, calling it alongside the other players is what makes it, so involved and so interesting for the players.
To the extent that the benefit of sport is not in how well people are playing, note if that were true we would all be fine with doping in sport, but rather, in how much the fans can enjoy it, we think the fallibility of referees is part of that viewership experience.
Secondly, hacking the sport.
So, look, they tell us on opposition, it's really difficult to rig matches because you have to get lots of people involved.
They're right, and we add to that, not only are you involving lots of people, but you're involving specifically players, refs, coaches, people who opt into a sport as a religion, as a way of life, people who are the least likely to harm the integrity of the sport.
What happens when mechanized calls start playing a part in this.
The problem with computerized systems is that they invariably can be hacked.
Note the incentive to hack these systems at the point at which the referees will likely change calls, like they say on the other side, is quite high if you take into account things like sports betting.
When you open up that capability to people who are substantially less invested in the sport and can more easily then cheat, because they no longer have to have the access to people like refs, coaches and players, you open up this sporting to more outside meddling in the worst form.
For all these reasons, please oppose the motion.