Recall elections are necessary both for the functioning of a democracy and for the upholding of the principles behind a democracy.
First, let's mack this thing.
What are we talking about?
Within a popular petition, you would need to get over fifty percent of a, per number of citizens eligible to vote, representing the number of citizens who voted in the most recent elections, meaning who put this person in power.
So if for example sixty percent of people showed up to vote at the most recent elections, you would need over fifty percent of sixty percent of the people in order to recall the elections.
What happens at the point of recall?
A, there's an immediate removal of the president or prime minister from power and replacement with whoever's next in line, depending on the specific system in which they're in, and b, an immediate triggering of elections to be set in the near future, say three months down the line to enable everyone to put platforms out and campaigns etcetera.
Bit of framing: to get fifty percent of people to agree that the status quo is so pernicious that it needs to be immediately stopped is exceptionally difficult.
This means that a recall election is likely to be a last recourse in very very rare cases.
Why then is it so crucial nonetheless?
One, we'd like to draw an analogy to an employer and employee.
Those to sign a contract.
Often, for example, a five year contract between the employee and the employer.
However, the employer still has the ability to terminate that contract in the middle if it becomes crucial.
If the employee ceases to do their job.
The people are the employer of the head of state.
The head of state is beholden to them and needs to do the job for which they were elected.
To reasons it's crucial to ensure that they have the ability to fire that employee: one, it creates deterrence.
A system of checks and balances within the decision making process.
If a president knows that he cannot be fired and at the very worst he won't be reelected, something which isn't even a problem for some because often you're at the end of your second in the middle of your second term for example, where you're limited to two terms, there is no actual deterrent from creating rules and regulations that are against the will of the people and are in fact self serving.
Now there are a few reasons why people might not do it, but something so crucial should be enforceable.
So we say this creates enforceability.
B, at the second stage, even if that president or head of state decides to take action against the people nonetheless, this enables the people to prevent it.
That's crucial because decisions made on this level or so powerful and sweeping, that living with one of these decisions for two years, three years, even a year, can be massively harmful to an entire country of people, so it should be preventable before the fact.
Secondly, we say this upholds the principles of democracy.
The principle of democracy, at its core, is that the people are in control of their own destiny.
If at any given point for four year intervals they have no way to de-facto act on that control, they're not really autonomous.
By enabling them, even through difficulty, to recall elections, you essentially enable them the autonomy that stand stands behind the principle of democracy in the first place.
For these reasons we beg to propose.