We should cancel social security tax.
Our intention is not to disenable people from opting into social security, it's simply to stop forcing them to do so.
Our mechanism is as follows.
Things remain quite similar to as they are now.
This means that the government regulates social security plans, it means it creates such plans which are advantageous for people who want to spend now in order to save for the future and have money to collect in the future, it means that it incentivizes people to do so by for example, matching whatever it is that you put into social security up to fifteen percent for example, etcetera.
The difference is it is an opt in system.
It is one which you are not forced to take part in.
Three arguments.
One, on where the right to taxation comes from and why social security doesn't fall under that governmental right.
Two, on individual need to prioritize spending, and three, on a system need for an opt out of that system.
So first, let's talk about whether or not this is actually a legitimate tax.
Taxation is a form of armed robbery.
The state uses its monopoly on power in order to force individuals to pay into the state.
That armed robbery needs to be justified in order to be okay.
We say is justified for purposes of redistribution, which is to say the state recognizes a need of specific individuals within the state, and therefore forces other individuals to pay for those people in order for them to be able to sustain themselves.
Crucially, this is legitimate because the state as an over arching actor is able to recognize needs needs in others where the people who can pay wouldn't be able to do so.
We think this logic breaks down at the point at which you're recognizing a need in that same person, which is to say the state may know what is best for the state as a whole better than any individual, but it is far from knowing what is better for every individual better than that same individual.
Given that, we think it delegitimizes the state and means that they're not allowed to force such attacks.
But even if they were allowed to do so, we think it's a bad idea on two levels.
One, we think for the individual there's often a need to prioritize.
This is to say oten it is financially wise to spend and risk more now, at the expense of later in order to have more money later.
You see this, for example, in starting a business.
Is if a person is forced to put away part of the profit from his new business into social security, it means that business is more likely to fail because it has less money less money coming in and less of an economic flow, and that means that person is, of course, doomed to need that social security more, because it failed his business in the first place.
We say it is at the individual person's level to decide whether it is more financially wise for him to play it safe or to risk the money now in order to reap gains later, and the government is less predisposed and able to make that decision for him, because he is in the unique situation of knowing both how much he needs that money now, and being responsible for the outcome of the results later if it fails.
So for the individual person, he has the right and is better off making that prioritization.
Lastly, we say for the system as a whole it is beneficial to have an opt out.
The problem with social security is that it's losing money because people are living longer and longer and more and more people are part of the social security system.
It cannot afford to sustain itself.
We say the more the solve for this is to enable those people who do not need the system to opt out of the system.
At the point at which social security doesn't need to pay as many people, we think it can more easily pay into the people who really need it the most.
For all these reasons, please propose the motion.