We should exploit unconventional oils.
By this we mean any form of shell oil fracking, etcetera, etcetera.
Three reasons we think we should do this.
One, on short term necessity, two, on the effect on alternative fuels, and three, on energy independence.
Let's start with short term necessity.
Recognize that the amounts of oil in the world are massively depleting.
Crucially, oil has long since been a global commodity, which means that those same oil suppliers are selling to the united states, selling to western europe, they're also selling to eastern europe and to asia.
It might seem to you like oil is necessary because some fat cats want to drive their car everywhere instead of taking the bus.
What you need to understand is that people in eastern europe, for example, people in poland, in slovakia, heat their homes with oil.
This means that without oil these people actually freeze to death.
Now, why is all this important?
There are only so many countries who can afford the process of exploiting alternative fuels.
Those are the same countries that if they don't exploit alternative fuels, countries like saudi arabia, those who sell the oil, recognize that they would be willing to pay a hefty price for oil.
They therefore hike up the price to meet the demand for oil.
This prices out those places who for them oil is life, and we think that's massively problematic.
We think that creates an enormous long term need.
Even if this solution is imperfect, even with all the flaws that it surely has, there are lives immediately at stake who need to be dealt with, and this solution is immediately accessible.
So that's on short term necessity.
Secondly, let's talk about the effect on alternative fuels.
So on the other side they'll say " look, you create infrastructure, etcetera etcetera, this pushes away the day where we all moved to green energy ".
We think we've reached the point where green energy is seen as a necessity.
Countries recognize this necessity, and the lacking of green energy is in research.
What does this mean?
It means that we have yet to find alternative fuels that are actually energy efficient if you take into account the creation process, and you take into account the availability of these fuels.
So for example, water energy is great, but it's too far away for most things, and it's not efficient enough with current levels.
Same thing is true with solar energy.
The amount of space needed to place solar panels is not worth the amount of energy you end up getting from these solar panels.
What does all this mean?
Right now these technologies are being pushed into use before they're actually ready because we're desperate to get any drop of energy.
However, investors see that the efficiency of these technologies is limited, and they move on to try and find another technology.
We think that's a problem.
We think the stress that these people are under to find proper energy right now means that they're not properly exploring in depth the potential of each form of alternative energy.
Imagine, if you were, that every paper you wrote you felt like you had to give in the next morning.
Even if you didn't actually have to give in in the next morning, the stress of that means that you're writing it hastily, means that you're rushing through it, means that you're not researching in depth and in and properly everything that comes out of your mouth or pen and paper.
That is the state of alternative energy research today.
But even if you don't believe any of that and you think this is just a worse form of gas, we say that's fine.
Energy dependence means that we don't have to be paying in to countries like saudi arabia, countries where women are still not granted basic rights, countries where homosexuals are stoned in the streets, because no one can stand up to them, because we're dependent on their energy.
We say that alone is reason enough to get any other form of energy that we can.
The environment is important.
It's important to people fifty years down the line.
Getting under the grip, out of the grip of saudi arabia is important to millions of people alive and suffering today, and that should be reason enough to exploit any form of energy that we can.