Classically, this debate would be about a choice.
A choice an individual makes between time spent on preparing or buying food and between health.
However, what we say is that those making the choice are not those or are not the only ones those suffering the consequences in the case of fast food.
Let's give a bit of definitions.
When we talk about fast food we're talking about a, drastically unhealthy food that is b, cheap and c, constitutes a meal.
That means things like mcdonald's are on the table and also means things like sushi which are not cheap for example are left on the table.
It also means that things like candy which does not constitute a meal is not on the table and it means things like a salad bar, which may be very quick, since it's not unhealthy is not on the table.
Let's talk.
So we concede the following.
Well the effect that fast food has on adults is terrible, it is to an extent class genocide in that people whose finances don't allow them to purchase better food and whose time, due to working, doesn't allow them to make their own food are forced into, or practically forced into, eating food that's bad for their health.
We agree that in the end of the day this is ultimately their choice and they limit it a legitimate choice to make.
However, we would note that they are not having fast food is no big loss.
We think most of them can live on the alternatives existing to them.
Here's the real problem though with fast food.
We cannot control for who actually eats it and our problem is adults aren't the only ones eating it.
Most of fast food is consumed by families.
Making a meal for yourself is always quick and easy.
Making a meal for three or four or five people becomes a lot more time consuming and that's why the trend you generally see is that fast food is not for single people who have no other options, but rather single people can usually either a, afford to pay for more food or b, afford the time that it takes to makes an individual to make an individual meal.
Rather it used by poor families who don't have the time to spend to make a meal for an entire family or who don't have the meals means to pay for an entire meal for a whole family.
The victim in this case is not the adults.
It's the children who don't have a say in the detrimental harm that this food has to their bodies.
We say this is enough of a cause to intervene because when it comes to physical and developmental harm to children, that passes the threshold of a legitimate choice for parents to make on their children.
Things like obesity things like diabetes are not things that just go away.
These are massive long term harms to the child and we need to intervene on their part.
Now they'll tell us on the other side, look you just said that these people don't have another option.
We say this is a market failure.
At the point at which fast food isn't a cheap and easy money making machines, alternatives come in.
Alternatives like salad bars that deliver.
Alternatives like quick healthier foods, chicken breast for example.
We think these alternatives can exist, they just don't in a market overflowing with fast food.
For these reasons, please propose.