The question on abortions tends to boil down to one crucial question.
Are fetuses people?
We think though, that it boils down to an even smaller question.
Are fetuses people when it comes to getting rights?
That's what we're gonna talk about in this debate.
Let's map this for a moment, see what we're talking about, what we're not.
We think abortions as a whole should be banned.
We think a few exceptions should be made to this ban, and those exceptions are cases of self-defense, both physical and extreme cases psychological.
What does that mean, it means just like you have the right to kill someone who's trying to kill you, or threatening to kill you, if a fetus is doing the same to a woman, she has the right to act in self defense and kill that child.
We think in cases of fetuses that came about due to rape, the psychological harm potential of that fetus is so great that that counts as self defense as well, so the woman would be allowed to get rid of that fetus.
That's basically it, maybe there are few more cases here and there which I think it counts a self defense and therefore it's okay.
What's our stance in this debate, we think one thing is clear to everybody.
You don't get to kill people, you don't get to kill them because you don't have enough money to take care of them, you don't get the kill them because it's inconvenient you don't get the kill them because you're too young to deal with them, people are people.
Why is that the case?
Because people have rights.
Right that you're not allowed to take away from them.
We think, that fetuses are people when it has to do with rights.
Why?
We say our criteria for giving rights to human beings is potential ability to fulfill those rights.
This means that since potentially one day this fetus, in all likelihood even, will be able to walk, will be able to talk, will be able to think, will be able to choose, that fetus gets the rights afforded to cognizant human beings.
Why is that the rationale by which we give people rights?
And here, it's crucial to understand.
Rights are a given thing, they are a societal construct that humanity has come up with in order to defend itself, both from other people and from governments as a as a whole.
People aren't really born with rights or, in our case, created with rights, but rather they are given rights by a societal norm that accepts that these rights ought to be theirs.
The reason we do this in order to protect, and the reason, crucially, that we do this for potential ability, is in order to deny an incentive to deny ability.
What does that mean?
It means, if being crippled means you lose rights because you no longer have the ability to do certain things, you are therefore incentivizing people to harm individuals in order to cripple them, destroying the initial rationale of giving them right in order to protect them in the first place.
In fact, potential right often get greater protection.
Where do we see all of this come down look at children.
Children, cannot think for themselves in all reality, however they still have the right to self defense and the right to life.
In fact, we give them additional protections over those rights.
The same is true of handicapable people.
People who are in all likelihood not even going to get those abilities back, but because potential exists, we afford them those rights and protect them even stronger.
The same should be true for fetuses.
We beg you to propose.