It should be clear that there are good immigrants and there are bad immigrants.
Simply a numbers game.
With this many immigrants you're bound to have some good ones and some bad ones but we think the measure of whether immigration has had an overall good effect or bad effect is in fact not the the immigrants that all.
It is the american population and we will be measuring through them whether or not they've affected for the better or for the worse.
Before that a whole lot of points of refutation.
One, we're told they're good for the economy and two reasons were given is a, they they create a boost to the work force, note this is a situation in with the american economy has more more people to work than it does jobs.
This is why so many people in america are unemployed.
A boost to the work force is not a good thing for the economy currently.
Secondly, they say it creates a boost to consumption.
Note you're taking people who in the end of their speech they say are extremely poor, from impoverished countries, just trying to get away, and calling them a boost to the consumption.
Most of these people are not consuming very much.
Now, the counter to that is the expenditures that these people create.
They create expenditures in security needs, they create expenditures in bureaucracies to deal with immigration, they create expenditures in buying them basic needs like food, like clothing etcetera since a lot of them are extremely poor.
This means as an overall they are a harm to the economy in most cases.
Secondly, he says: " they take the jobs that americans don't really want to do. "
We ask: what are these jobs that americans don't want to do?
Because we claim there are no jobs that americans won't do.
There are conditions that americans won't work.
Americans will clean an elephant's poop in the zoo too if you pay them more than minimum wage.
So essentially what these people are doing is not taking the jobs that americans don't want, it's enabling abusive employers to maintain abusive conditions for their workers.
We don't think that's an overall good, we think that's a harm.
Thirdly, he says this creates cultural enrichment.
That would be wonderful in an ideal world.
In the real world what you get if things like cultural hatred and xenophobia.
We'll get to that in the argument.
Fourthly, they say immigration is difficult.
Yes, that's true.
This is a harm not a good he says that they the reason they come here none the less is because of safety issues.
Those aren't immigrants, those are refugees.
Don't confuse the two.
And lastly he sums up that point by saying: " if they're going through all this there must be a reason.
There must be some great good at it. "
False.
We say there is a promise for a great good.
We say they are told they can live the american dream.
The reality is much harsher and very different to that.
The good at the end of the tunnel doesn't actually exist for these people.
So what does exist?
We say the major effect that immigrants have had is fueling the need of the american people for an enemy.
What do we mean?
It is true that some immigrants have been successful actors, nobel laureate, scientists, whatever.
However it is also true that some of them have been extremely poor and this makes sense that some of them due to that poverty have turned to crime and this also makes sense.
It's also true that some of them take american jobs and this also make sense.
The problem is that people tend to unite against a common enemy.
And it just so happens that immigrants were chosen as the common american enemy to unite against.
What this has created is a situation in which the cultures of these people, the religions of these people, the beliefs, the homelands of these people, have all been demonized through the notion of demonizing the immigrants themselves.
The amount of hatred and xenophobia created due to immigration in the united states, and note, not because of the immigrants but because of the americans and the way they reacted towards the immigration, has been unbelievable.
It has led to things like trump being elected, like a wall almost being built between the united states and mexico.
All of this we say is a greater harm than any immigrant has ever brought the united states.
Please oppose.