Urbanization has done more harm than good.
So, by urbanization we mean the massive global trend we've seen, where in, larger and larger proportions of the population are living in smaller and smaller proportions of the geographic area available to them.
We mean this in terms of regular, large cities, such as tel aviv for example, but also, specifically in terms of mega cities, such as delhi, such as london, such as new york.
Three particular harms, that we think that urbanization is causing, which are massively detrimental: a, an environmental harm, b, a harm to the happiness and well being of individuals, and three, a macro economic harm to society as a whole.
Let's get started.
Firstly, how is this a massive environmental harm right?
Off the bat, we recognize that, in order to provide infrastructure for larger geographic areas, there is, to an extent, an environmental harm being caused.
The reason being that, more dispersed populations means more needs for more things like roads, more things like hospitals, things that, when localized, can be gotten in fewer quantities.
However, we think that the major harm to the environment doesn't come from building in diverse areas, but rather from congestion.
So, congestion is the notion that environmental harm is exponential at the point at which it's all happening in one place.
Now, we would note that, living in enclosed geographic quarters still means a lot of environmental harm being created.
People still need cars to get around, people still need public transportation, such as buses, which still create fumes.
People still need places to live, which still means building and creating additional environmental harm.
However, at the point at which all of that environmental harm is congested into one area, the the natural ability of the environment to fight off these pollutions, gets substantially mitigated.
So, things like a hole in the ozone layer doesn't happen from x amount of CO two emissions, but rather from concentrated x amount of CO two emissions.
We think, that means that, putting everyone together, means more concentrated areas of attack.
Think of it in terms of poking a hole through a parachute, if you were to take a thousand different needles, and poke them in different areas of a parachute, that parachute would still likely manage to bring the the parachuter down safely, particularly this is true, if the parachute has the ability to fix small holes in time.
However, if you take all those thousand needles and poke them in the same place, you get one large hole, which means the person plummets to his death.
The same thing happens with the environment.
Secondly, on general happiness.
We think that people measure their happiness in comparative ways to other people, at the point at which individuals are always surrounded by somebody substantially better off than them, because cities mean that there's a diverse population within that city, and someone in that city is going to be exceptionally rich, in fact, a large proportion of that city is going to be exceptionally rich, that means, the people who are poor are substantially worse off and less happy comparatively.
Compare this with the situation, in which the poorer people are living in less urbanized areas, and their surroundings are all people with similar life circumstances.
We think, even if in terms of material gains, these people have less in non urban areas, we think they're more comparatively happy.
Lastly, on a macro economic stance.
We think communities have the ability to be self sustaining, each community needs particular amounts of food, needs sorts of transportation, needs certain services, and those services can sustain themselves.
However, those services are only needed on a non exponential level, which means that you need the same amount of supermarkets for a hundred people, or for five thousand people.
That means, that by congregating everyone, you're not allowing large enough markets to be created, which means fewer people have jobs, fewer people have the ability to feed and support themselves, and the economic of the economy of the nation as a whole is hard.
For these reasons, we think that urbanization does more harm than good.