One main argument on why athletic scholarships are better for the individual.
Before that five points of external rebuttal.
One, james start by telling you, quote: " they are coerced because only this is their only ticket out so there's no free choice. "
Two responses: a, a good deal does not mean it is coercion.
Just because this is clearly their best choice, because it's their only way to get a quality academic training, does not mean that it's negative forms of coercion.
But b, note that if this option is taken away, they're not coerced any less, it's one fewer options.
That means they're now coerced into whatever the negative alternative that they otherwise would have been forced into is.
If that's a life of poverty, if that means getting a job as a waiter because they can no longer get an academic degree, whatever it is they're just as coerced into it and it's probably worse for them.
Two, he says they work for free.
We generally don't let people work for favors.
Note we do allow people to intern.
When do you intern?
When something that you do now for free is massively beneficial to your ability to maintain a future career.
In this case, either a future career as someone who needs a degree or a future career as an athlete, both things are massively pushed forward by you having an athletic scholarship in the university, meaning we find this to be similar to an internship which is perfectly acceptable.
Three, he says you can't quit.
Wait a second, yes you can.
He says: " wait, but then you'll lose your scholarship. "
Yeah, the same way if you quit a job you'll lose your salary.
A contract is only negative if it literally can't be broken, not if there are consequences to breaking the contract.
Fourthly he says: " here's what happens.
The NFL would have to pay if it weren't for the academic world making money off of this. "
This means it's a mutually beneficial.
That's not a bad thing that the NFL saves money while academia makes money.
Which leads me to five, he tells us this is a poor use of funds and that they are losing resources that otherwise could have been used.
No no no.
James doesn't understand how athletics work in colleges.
They make more money off of them than they spent.
Want some proof of this?
A, note that in an institution incentivized by academia they would have no reason to even have sports programs.
You can see this in the fact that the united states is the only country in the world where this kind of thing happens.
Why is that the only country basically the only country in the world?
B, because they're the only ones with massive financial incentives in doing so.
They are for profit institutions.
How does this make them more money?
Through sponsorships, through deals with the NFL and the NBA with scouts, through ticket sales, through merchandise, through people wanting to come to schools based on sporting events, through getting more money out of alumnis because of the cult thoughts surrounding sports teams that these university have.
The bottom line is if it weren't good for the schools' financial bottom line, they wouldn't be doing this.
They are making more money than they're spending which means all of james's points are not on his side of the house, there on ours.
We can offer better academia we can offer more external scholarships than we could have done if it weren't for these athletes.
Let's talk about why it's good for the individual.
Basically, one of two things if possible.
Either this is an individual who is only athletically inclined or this is an individual who is both athletically and educationally inclined.
If this individual is only athletically inclined this means two things happen here: a, he is given an athletic chance by playing in these leagues.
Now sure, it is true he would have given been eh he may have been given just as much a chance through the NFL etcetera, but note that there are more colleges than the NFL needs people.
This means that there is a wider net of people given a chance when it's done through athletic scholarships.
Or secondly he also gets some sort of education.
Meaning he is forced to, to some extent, study to keep his GPA up to some minimal degree.
It means he's given more options if athletics don't work up for him.
The second option is in somebody who's also academically inclined.
This means you're giving a person who should have had a degree the ability to get that degree because of his sporting abilities in a world where financially he likely would not have been able to do so otherwise.
For all of these individuals it's far better to live in a world with athletic scholarships.
Please maintain them.