We should abolish the needle exchange program.
By this we include NSPs, NEPs, and any other program that assists drug users in their drug use.
Right off the bat, we accept the fact that this is a net benefit for drug users and potentially a net benefit for society in avoidance of other drug related costs.
Here's what we're going to say: a utilitarian perspective is the wrong perspective to take regarding states affiliation with drug use.
Why?
We think that there is a distinction to be made between states and individual when regarding moral calculuses.
States are required to take utilitarian perspectives under the notion that each individual is equal within the state and therefore harm to one individual is equal to harm to another and the same goes with benefits.
Individuals however do not have that same calculation.
An individual is not allowed to decide that committing a certain type of crime, for example, creates overall benefit to society and is therefore something that should be allowed to do.
Rather, even if you steal medication in order to help somebody needy you still go to prison or get punished to some extent for stealing that medication.
Therefore, individuals are subject to more of a kantian deontological morality.
What is this mean regarding drug users?
Drug users are individuals who have opted out of the states support system.
What does this mean?
The state owes the individual based on a social contract.
That social contract creates both obligations and rights.
Those rights include things like being perceived as equal in the eyes of the states and therefore entering in to the moral calculation of utility within the state.
However, drug users, in places in which drugs are illegal, or people who have actively opted out of this calculation.
Why?
Because they haven't committed those obligations that they have towards the state.
They have in essence said to the state we do not accept your authority over us in rules and regulations.
Where do we see something similar happening?
Note that when we put people in prison, often it is at massive cost to the society.
Note further, it is almost always at individual harm to those people.
Why then do we do it nonetheless?
Because those people have opted out of the states protection and therefore no longer warrant those same rights.
Now you'll say, but overall it protects society because we keep those people away.
Two things: a, we're entirely unsure that the way prisons are implemented are helpful to society overall.
B, even if as a whole they are certainly there are many cases in which for example putting business leaders in prison for infraction they've committed harm the business to an extent that is a macro economic harm to society as a whole and yet we still do not consider that when putting these people in prison.
What does all of this mean when it comes to drug users?
It means that at the point at which an individual has opted out of the system in which the state needs to consider that individualists part of a whole therefore, in a utilitarian manner when they've opted out the state needs to consider actions toward those individuals in a deontological way, the same way it does with prison.
In that sense drugs are wrong, needles are bad, and therefore should not be given by the state morally.
For these reasons, please propose.