Two things we're going to talk to you about today.
One, on how it is the act of choice and the ability to choose that makes a human being a human being, and how that affects both the side of the fetus and the side of the mother mother.
Two, on comparative rights between a fetus and its mother.
Before that, two points of extraneous rebuttal.
One, daniel tells us abortion is a choice which can't be balanced against entire human life not being experienced.
Three responses: one, note daniel assumes a fetus is a human life.
That's not an assumption we're willing to accept.
That's not an assumption that any reasonable supporter of abortion is willing to accept, and we're not entirely sure why daniel spends no time explaining how a fetus is equivalent to an actual human being.
Two, if life potential is the criteria because a fetus can become a human being, we're a little confused by daniel supporting giving away condoms.
Everyone of those sperm has the potential to one day be life and yet daniel is perfectly fine with killing those off.
What then is the difference, and where does he draw the line?
Three, a human life is defined by the choices that the individual can make.
Having a baby may be a choice for some people, but it is one that removes infinite potential choices in the future, because the care and attention you need to give that baby just to keep it safe, not even to do a good job raising it, is so great that your life becomes substantially more limited.
So it's not life versus.
It's a life versus a life.
Two, daniel says when we're not really sure, we need to defer against harm.
Note this begs the question and assumes that the harm to the fetus is greater.
We say that ruining a current life and ruining the potential life of the fetus given it's going to be raised by a parent who never wanted it in the first place versus removing what is essentially the cellular equivalent of a malignant tumor is probably more harmful on our side of the house.
Now let's talk about why you become an entity through choice.
When questioning what is a human being, what you need to ask is what is it that makes human beings different from other entities in the world, different from animals, different from trees, different from rocks.
We say it is the act and ability to choose, to decide rationally for yourself or to some minimal extent rationally for yourself, how it is that you intend on acting next, how you intend on taking things, etcetera.
Note this active choice exists in every single human being.
Even from a baby, they have some acts of choice.
You have some acts of choice even with mentally disabled people.
They're all able to, in some cognizant sense, make deliberate choices.
A fetus isn't able to do this.
Two things this means to you: one, a fetus is not at the point where he is a human where it is a human being.
It therefore does not grant it rights.
Two, a fetus becoming a baby removes, as we already said, multiple choices from this mother.
That means its existence makes the mother less of a human being.
It's a double-sided coin.
What does that mean about comparative rights?
Note daniel himself says if it risks the health of the mother or if it's rape or if it is against the health of a child, we're okay with it.
What does this mean?
He's willing to accept that certain damages to the mother or to the child are sufficient to take away what he calls life.
If he truly believed it was life, obviously health risks would not be sufficient to take it away.
Clearly, he himself doesn't think it's an actual life.
Furthermore, at the point where it's a non-entity threatening to ruin the life of an actual mother, we say the harms fall strongly on our side and we beg you to allow abortion.