Three reasons we should ban alternative medicine.
One, on the opportunity cost involved.
Two, on abusive deception of people in the worst way, and three, on the harm to decision making of individuals.
Briefly, on definitions and mechanism.
Alternative medicine, as far as we're concerned, is anything that has not passed proper medical testing to be proven to be more effective than a placebo to a reasonable degree.
What are we not going to talk about in this debate?
Those medications that are actively harmful, medications that are poisoning individuals and actively harming them.
We think obviously that should be banned that that's not going to likely be the core of this debate.
We think a likely core of this debate is about those medications that are not helpful or no more helpful than a placebo, but not harmful direct in any direct sort of way, and to an extent, potentially make the patient feel better, make him feel like he's doing something, like he has some sort of chance.
Let's talk about why these nonetheless harm those patients immensely.
First, on opportunity cost.
We think that alternative medicine comes at an enormous opportunity cost.
Why?
Because a, it costs a patient a lot of money.
Note that often these patients are people who don't have very much money because they're often debilitated and unable to work in order to maintain more money.
So unless they came into this disease having an enormous sum of money, they're likely depleted at the time at which they decide to turn to alternative medicine.
Two, it costs them time.
In order to get your alternative care you need to go out, see that the the shamans or whatever it is go out again and buy the prescriptions wherever it is that you get it.
All of these things are things that are exhausting if you're not sick, if you are sick more over than that, they're even more tiring for the individual.
So we think it is it makes it highly likely that alternative medicine is not supplementary, but rather comes at the expense, oftentime, of regular medications.
Two reasons that's an unbearable opportunity cost.
One, because we think oftentimes these people could have been healed.
It is true that people often turn to alternative medicine when traditional medicine has nothing left to offer, but that is not always the case and moreover, traditional medicine, given that it is continuously evolving, often has a more things to offer if you can stick with it and push through it.
So we think some of these people can be healed.
But even if not, we think it comes at the cost of quality of life that traditional medicine can give you.
So even if they can't heal whatever it is that you're sick with, they can often give you medications that enable to live your life out more comfortably.
This is conversely to alternative medicine, which while it will claim to heal you, and maybe even make you feel a little bit better through placebo, note you get that same feeling of better through the medication that are actually making you feel better, and you get the physical helping that they give for your quality of life.
Secondly, we think this is an abusive form of deception.
Why is it abusive?
You're literally taking people's money at the lowest possible point of their life when they've given up all hope.
We think the rationality of an individual in this situation is immensely questionable, and therefore we think we have the right, and in fact duty to intervene in order to help these individuals and save them from people prying at them and trying to get every last bit of money out of them when they're least able to protect themselves.
Lastly, on the harms in decision making.
So we think prop case is op case is likely to come in here and say " look, worst case scenario, they lived out the rest of their days, the same amount of days they would have otherwise lived out, with some sort of feeling of hope, some sort of feeling of option for survival ".
We already showed why that's unlikely to be the truth, but even in the cases where that is true, we think that in itself if deceptive and not good.
Why?
Because people don't leave behind emptiness.
People leave behind a history, they leave behind a family, they leave behind a story.
That story needs to be closed off.
When someone has the information that they're going to die, they are then able to do things like writing a will, like communicating with long lost family members, like finalizing their last wishes on earth, that they're likely to avoid doing if they're hanging on to false hope of continuous survival.
So even then, these individuals are being harmed.
For all these reasons, please propose the motion.