Two things were gonna talk about.
One, when fast food is the right decision to make, and two, on the right to choose fast food, which note tim does not discuss, not for a moment, on what gives the government a right to ban such a thing.
Before that three points of refutation: one, tim states at the beginning of his speech, fast food is unhealthy, it's inherently unhealthy.
Note this is a, untrue about the unhealthiness of fast food but b, certainly untrue comparatively to other foods.
So for example, lots of people are eating bacon for breakfast.
That's less healthy than a mcdonald's egg mcmuffin or whatever it is that you want to eat.
Lots of people are eating doughnuts for breakfast from dunkin' donuts.
That's less healthy.
So we're not entirely sure why he's picking on fast food but for the sake of the debate, we'll assume that the fast food he's banning is only the unhealthy ones.
Fine.
Secondly, he says: " you choose the quicker option and then you force them to make and then by by by banning that, you force them to make a healthy decision. "
So, let's take a look at what that decision is likely to look like.
Because what's crucial about fast food and what's inherent about fast food is that it is faster than other food options.
It's faster because you don't need to take the time to prepare it.
It's also faster because even if you're talking about minimal things like a sandwich, then you don't need to go three times a week to the store to get fresh bread and to resupply your, whatever it is that you wanna put in your sandwich and generally the things you put in your sandwich are either a, unhealthy or b, cooked.
Meaning they take time to put in your sandwich.
So, you're creating a situation in which people, who are stressed for time and don't have very much time, are now forced to create time out of thin air.
What does that look like in poor families?
Generally what that looks like is that you force one of the two household members to stay home to care for the household needs such as cooking etcetera and generally, we say that is likely going to be the oppression of a woman.
All of this are bad alternatives when you take someone who, note by tim's own admission, chooses something and you force him into something else.
Lastly, tim says: " look the comparative on our side of the house is a sandwich. "
We already told you sandwiches take way more time but crucially, they're not actually more healthy.
It's white bread coupled with something likely to be either hard cheese or deli meat, all of these are a, unhealthy in and of themselves and b, lack nutritional variety in the way that even fast food does substantially better.
One, when is fast food the right decision?
On an both on individual level and on a familial level often it is right to prioritize your short term your long term economy over your short term health.
What does that mean?
It means that, for example, I want to work two jobs a day so I can make sure that my children have enough time to are able to both go to school and to have private tutors in order to advance them in their academia and have a roof over their head.
All of this means that I spend most of my time away from home and don't have a lot of time to prepare food.
This means I may often prioritize feeding them fast food.
However, this prioritization is not necessarily a wrong thing.
The same is true for me as an individual.
I can choose, for example, to work as a legal intern for twelve hours a day, leaving me little to no time to buy and prepare my own healthy food, out of the knowledge that this is a short term thing, I work this way for five years and for the rest of my life I can eat the world's greatest vegan food, because I'm a high powered attorney who can afford it.
All of this means that the individual has many individual circumstances in which it might be the correct decision for that person to prioritize long term goals over short term health.
Why do they have the right to choose that?
Basically, two reasons: one, individual bodily autonomy means I get to decide what it is that I put into my body.
Two, the notion of an individual knows what is best for that person and only when that is entirely clearly patently untrue can the government intervene.
So for example, the government does not get to force me to go to the gym instead of going to work in the morning.
The government does not get to force me to go home early from work to avoid stress.
The government does not get to force me to not cram for tests the night before, even though it means I'll probably eat more pringles.
All of these things are things that are sometimes right for the individual and therefore the government has to butt out of.
This is the same.
You have no right to take fast food away.
Please oppose.