We think that people have a right to the internet.
In which we mean, we think the internet should be treated as a public good, the same way transportation is treated as a public good, the same way education is treated as a public good.
The meaning of this is that the government needs to ensure internet access to everyone, other than of course exceptions like criminals behind bars et cetera.
Most of the time, this will be done just by enabling a free market, some of the time it means intervention in the market either to prevent monopolies or to create a market where the free market is unable to do so due to profitability, this means the government would have to subsidize it, lastly it means, attempting at least to ensure it internationally, such as google's attempts to insure internet access globally.
Two arguments we're gonna make.
One is what is the criteria for a public good, and two, are, why and what rights require the internet in this day and age.
So first, what is our criteria for public good?
We think public good is a term that defines things that are necessary in order to facilitate basic human rights.
So for example, you have a basic human right for safety, a public good in the form of police or military are then created in order to facilitate that safety, a government is responsible to maintain that police in order to maintain the security of the individuals.
Transportation for example, you have a right for freedom of movement in an ever globalizing economy in which things are no longer walking distance from your home, that right is facilitated necessarily by the ability for motorized transportation and, as such, public transportation becomes a public good, where in, governments need to subsidize things like buses in order to enable people to act upon their basic rights.
What do we think are the rights that require internet to be seen as a public good?
The first, is freedom of speech.
It used to be the case where the most basic form of speech, was going out into the street, standing on, you know, soapbox or whatever, and talking to people face to face.
And the government wouldn't be allowed to limit that and in fact would need to facilitate that if that were ever necessary.
However today's day and age, most public discourse happens over the internet.
Political arguments happen not in the streets, but on facebook, and through email and various internet forums.
In order to enable participation in the most basic form of freedom of speech, you need the internet, this means, that expression on the internet is not an uplifted version of expression, but rather, the bread and butter of expression at the point at which most public discourse happens there.
So we think for freedom of speech, you require the internet as a public good.
Secondly, we think equality of opportunity requires the internet as a public good.
A, by education, in the fact that most education is better available, or uniquely available on the internet.
You can get books on the internet, you can get wikipedia on the internet, and in fact a world of education is open to you.
Crucially, equality of opportunity means that, since this is open to many people, it is crucial to make sure that it's open to all people.
Secondly, in the aspect of business.
Not only do many jobs require you have internet access in order to work, but in order to find a job in the first place, most companies now publicize their wanted ad only on the internet.
So in order to gain equality of opportunity both in education and in business, internet is necessary in order to facilitate this.
So because internet meets the criteria for a public good, it is about time governments start seeing it as such.
Please propose.