We should further exploit green technology.
As far as we're concerned, all forms of green technology should be adopted just as quickly as we can afford to adopt them.
This means green energy created from sun or from wind power or from water power.
This means machines that are more energy efficient.
So if that's electric cars for example, or certain types of more efficient factories for manufacturing, whatever it is.
The reason we think we should do this is that the damage from abusing the environment is potentially enormous.
That means we expect to see things like ice caps melting, like entire species of animals going extinct because their environment has changed too much, like entire cities or maybe even states going under water.
All of this is horrible damages, and we'd like to avoid it as much as possible.
So, a few arguments.
First, we think the damage caused by global warming is often irreparable.
This means that once damage is done, it cannot be undone.
So a few examples of this.
When the hole in the ozone layer was made, mankind did not know how to fix that hole.
When a specific genus of animal goes extinct because of the changes to its environment, that animal is never coming back.
If the ice caps start melting, those areas are not going to suddenly grow back.
All of this means that we need to start battling climate change as soon as possible.
Now, we recognize that the technology which we have to do this with currently is imperfect.
However, because it's so irreparable, it is crucial that we start using even this imperfect technology in order to -le climate change.
A second argument we're going to make is on how we improve upon this technology.
See, there are two streams of thought.
One says, wait till the technology is good enough, then implement it.
We say that's not as good.
Why?
A, because of all the damages you've already created while you were waiting, but b, because up until the point where this technology is in use, investment in it seems like a long shot.
Meaning, the return on investment that you get is in a very long time from now and you cannot deduce properly when it's going to be, because it depends on the quality of the product and when the government decides to adopt it.
How does adopting green technology affect the creation of green technology.
At the point at which governments come up and say look, we're trying to implement as much green technology as possible, we want the best of the best and we want to do it now.
Corporations and businesses are now massively incentivized to improve upon and tweak any form of green technology, because it's all going to be necessary for the market which is now wide open.
This means you get substantially more venture capitals investing in green technology, you get substantially more scientists looking into how to improve green technology, you get substantially more corporations developing the end product of green technology.
If until now only tesla made proper electric cars, because nobody knew when electrical gas stations were going to be a thing, tomorrow every car company knows that that's the next step and that they should make an electric car now.
For these reasons, happy to propose.