The positive sides of stem cell research are scientifically agreed upon at this point.
They are massively beneficial in studying genetic diseases, and may potentially one day serve as a cure for genetic diseases.
They are potential replacements for organ donations, and that you can create new organs that are genetically identical to an individual based on their stem cells, you can they're they're effective in repairing DNA, a whole bunch of great things that can come from stem cell research.
So the real question in this debate is what exactly are the harms of stem cell research, and why do those pale in comparison with the benefits.
So let's talk a little bit about how stem cells are extracted.
Basically, when eggs are fertilized for in vitro fertilization or whatever, you get a whole bunch more than you can actually implant into a human being, and those extra are sometimes donated for stem cell research.
Alternatively, an egg is donated on its own for research, and individual DNA samples are taken from patients in order to match mix them with the egg, and create stem cells.
So the two questions you really want to be asking are one, do embryos have any form of right, and two, even if they do have some form of rights, what are the alternatives here.
So one, we we claim that embryos do not have rights.
A few reasons for that.
One, if you are under the notion that rights are derived from being human, or even the potential to be human, you have to explain why it is that we're willing to take away these rights from human beings all the time.
We take them away from prisoners, we take them away from soldiers, we take them away from poor people even.
We say that rights are a factor of participation in society.
If you can and do participate properly in society, you get rights from that participation.
An embryo has no ability to participate in the first place and therefore does not participate in any form in society, which means that an embryo doesn't get rights.
This explains why we don't give rights to animals as well, for example.
So we don't think the embryo deserves any rights, but let's say that it does.
Why do we still think that stem cell research is not a harm.
Two two alternatives.
One is if we do not do the research, then most of these cells are being thrown out anyway.
The eggs that are currently being donated will just sit in a woman's body until they die out and become nothing, and the embryos that have already been implanted, those taken from IVF, those will literally be thrown in the garbage.
This means at any point that it's so to speak a human, already an embryo, it's going to so to speak to die anyway.
So that's alternative number one, and we think that's worse.
The second is given all the benefits from stem cell research, we have good reason to believe that it is capable of saving millions of lives once that's properly honed, which means on a calculus where we often say you're allowed to kill in self defense for example, or a nation can kill during war in order to protect its citizens, you're still coming out ahead using stem cell research, even if these embryos are people.
So for all these reasons, please propose.