Two things were going to discuss today: one, on international relations and direct engagement with proposition and two, on green energy also indirect engagement.
A few points of rebuttal, everything will mostly be intertwined.
One, they tell us that demand is inelastic.
People need heat, people need transportation.
They don't get less when it's more expensive.
We say they're misleading you.
Demand for energy is inelastic, perhaps.
Demand for fuel is elastic in that as soon as it can be replaced with alternative methods of energy the demand for fuel goes down.
So it is to an extent contentious or mutually exclusive with energy derived from green methods.
Secondly, international relations.
Let's talk about that.
So they say what you end up doing is lowering the power of countries like saudi arabia and venezuela by becoming less dependent on them, them and russia.
Two points.
A, we say that's somewhat contentious with the first argument.
If the demand goes down, meaning that if the prices go down because the supply goes up, that means that your basing yourself on the entire supply.
If you're simply replacing the supply available in saudi arabia with the supply available in let's say canada, then you haven't actually changed the price at all.
So only one of these arguments can simultaneously be true.
Secondly, we think it's a terrible terrible idea.
The ability of the united states to implement soft influence on countries like saudi arabia, countries that note, have been instrumental in defending against isis in spite of the fact that it goes against their own self interest.
Countries that note, have restrained themselves for years from attacking israel in a way that other countries in the region haven't simply because of united states effect.
Removing that relationship means removing power on both sides.
Yes it is true that saudi arabia has some leverage on the united states but we but we say that when the economy of the country rests solely on the ability to export gas and note venezuela's recent crumble because it got ran out of gas it means that they are more to be shaped then the other countries.
That means are the weaker side in this relationship.
This means the ability to implement soft power on them rises massively at the point at which there's an economic dependency between the country.
There is nothing we fear more than a russia that has nothing to lose by attacking eastern europe.
The fact that they lose the ability to export their gas is the one thing holding them back.
We think it's a terrible idea.
So that's the first argument.
Then, on green energy.
So they say look, we have to develop this technology at some point because we're going to run out of gas to which they themselves realize the obvious response is green energy but they say it's not a zero sum game.
Why is it a zero sum game?
A, money is fungible.
Any money that I've invested into these forms of energy can be reinvested into green energy.
Given that it's important technology we think it's best to invest as much as possible.
But b, investments in infrastructure create long term economic dependency.
He himself said we're going to bring jobs back to north america and back to canada or whatever.
Note the power of potatoes in iowa.
Just because they have so many jobs in there, it is politically near impossible to get rid of entire fields of labor in democratic countries.
This means by creating an entire infrastructure and sunk costs and new jobs in this field, you're insuring decades more of dependency on these oils in spite the fact that we could have moved to greener oils much sooner.
For these reasons, please oppose the motion.