We think the legitimacy of subsidies, of any subsidies, requires that there need to be an intervention in the free market.
That something is broken, something is not working.
It also requires that those subsidies fix that something or at least improve it to a great extent.
We don't think either of those things happen with agriculture, and so we think we should stop subsidizing agriculture.
Briefly, why are these the only times you're allowed to subsidize?
Recognize that taxpayer money is essentially money that belongs to the people.
That means it needs to be used very carefully.
Why then can it not be used in any but those situations?
We say the taxpayer needs to be treated as a rational consumer.
As a rational consumer he would spend the additional money only when not presented with another option.
If the free market is working as it should, then he ought have another option and therefore not need to support those businesses by a tax dollars.
Why is this not the case ahmm that there is no other option?
Look, right off the bat we recognize that there is limited resources for food and agriculture because it's based on land.
We do say however there is a lot of that land in the united states.
There's no shortage of it comparative to the amount of food necessary.
What happens today?
The subsidies enable people who are actually not using all of their land to the best of their extent to stay in business.
How does this happen?
Let's say farmer a has one hundred acres and one hundred acres can technically grow one million pounds of wheat.
Farmer a, however, is only growing five hundred thousand pounds of wheat in his one hundred acres.
Then the government comes in and they say: " don't worry about it we got you.
We're gonna subsidize your losses because you've provided us five hundred thousand pounds of wheat. "
This means that farmer a is no longer properly incentivized to do everything he can in order to grow the one hundred thousand pounds of wheat.
Why?
A, he'll often lose the subsidy if he makes the money himself and b, it substantially more work so even if the money evens out our adds some into his pocket, it's probably not worth the additional amount of work he'd have to put it which is approximately double.
What does that mean?
That farmer a now controls a monopoly, to an extent, over land which no one else can use and now he isn't using.
Add that to the fact that if we were to enable breaking these monopolies, GMC's could come in there with crops that take up substantially less land and you could have substantially more food in less area.
Why are GMC's not an option today?
Note that the subsidies have been going on for so long that farmers today are essentially families of farmers who have been doing this for generations whereas the GMC's are generally developed by new people in the business.
Business people who don't have generations of farmers and therefore farm land.
So, sure the GMC people have bought up some land but a lot of land is controlled by farmers, who their family business is farming and because they're getting subsidies, they're not being run out of business by an ultimately superior business model that should have run them out of business.
Now they'll say: " great.
Don't those farmers deserve protection? "
No.
The people deserve protection.
The people deserve to be protected from paying more for a lesser product.
The farmers can find another line of work or they can negotiate to work the fields in the companies owned by the GMC's who are able to eventually do a substantially better job.
So because it's not our place to provide subsidies where the free market would do a better and because it's ultimately harmful to the people, we support the motion.