We should ban racial profiling.
By this we mean any form of taking into account race on part of the police or other enforcement agencies when deciding to stop, when deciding to frisk, when deciding to accuse or suspect or anything to that effect.
A few points we're gonna make.
First, we say it is ineffective versus the alternatives.
Even if it is true that there is some sort of statistical correlation between race and crimes in particular areas or particular places etcetera, we say it is more accurate to base yourself on things like facial tics, things like erratic behavior, things like sweating more.
Small signs that point to who is likely going to commit a crime in the near future.
Now, they'll say on the other side of the house sure, but that's difficult to do, it requires a large amount of training, to which we should say they're absolutely correct.
That is more difficult, it costs more money.
We say it's absolutely worth that more money for two reasons.
One, because it means that the job is done substantially better.
And two, because it means that you don't have to trample over individuals' civil rights in order to do it.
This is crucial to understand, cause the second point is racial profiling is just morally unjust.
What do we mean?
The rationale behind law enforcement says the law has the right to take away civil liberties of individuals, because those individuals have abandoned their claim to those liberties at the point at which they've committed a crime.
Now that's extended to a certain extent for lesser things under lesser evidence, in order to be able to question people.
However, crucially, at any point, even in order to stop someone, you have to have minimal evidence in order to do so.
Crucially, that individual has to give up that right of his to not be stopped, not be bothered, and generally speaking they give up that right by producing whatever it is that the minimal evidence is that's being produced.
Given that an individual cannot control their race, they're not producing this evidence, at which point they haven't given up their civil right to privacy, their civil right to freedom.
This means you also have absolutely no right to stop these people based solely on race.
Lastly, let's talk about why this is counter-productive.
Two reasons.
One, you create antagonism within the group at the point at which you paint them and eh in a single brush and otherize them from the main population.
If you tell african americans that they are suspicious just because they are african americans, that they have to live life knowing that they can be stopped at any point, pulled over at any point, frisked at any point for no reason other than their skin color, they end up internalizing that, they end up acting out based on that, they end up in a situation where that prophecy becomes true because they feel like they're being attacked and grouped based on their race, so they group and attack back based on that same race.
So it is counter-productive to prevention of crime.
Secondly, we say it's counter-productive in the efficacy of studying any sort of effect of race on crime, and general public opinion of crime.
How did this happen?
No one can be convicted until the point where they're stopped, frisked, arrest arrested, etcetera.
This means if you're stopping, if you're enabling stopping people just based on skin color, then the number of people who get funneled into people who are convicted, is disproportionately skewed towards people of color.
This means that the statistics themselves of who actually commits more crime are massively skewed, because of the original assumption that they in fact commit more crime.
This means prevention becomes harder, this means studying becomes harder, and crucially, it means that in the first place, it's highly likely that even the statistics we have showing that these people may commit more crimes are inaccurate statistics, skewed by illegitimate methods.
For all these reasons, oppose racial profiling and support the motion.