Daniel tells us a good journalism is important, we agree.
What he doesn't tell us is how his subsidies create good journalism, and that's where we disagree.
We're going to talk to you about, what happens when the watchdog of democracy is beholden to the same democracy, he is supposed to watch over.
Sh before that, two points of extraneous rebuttal: one, he says: we're talking mostly about local papers which are dying out.
So, we're going to talk a little bit more about, what that looks like in the argument.
But two responses other than that: one, note it doesn't quite fit the problem daniel describes, see daniel is talking about how online media moguls are replacing, and basically pricing out regular newspapers.
This doesn't really happen with local floridian newspapers, because nobody online is interested in what they're doing, and doesn't have a big enough online market share.
It specifically those local papers who generally manage to survive, by publicizing local businesses, which again online mean nothing, and by selling to local people.
Secondly, note that working online models do exist, so he tells you: well, you know people put on adblocker, so you can't make money.
No, like, you can sell a prescription to to the online newspaper, or you can shut the site down, if somebody has an ad blocker until they turned it off.
Like, that literally exists already and does work.
Secondly, they say good news is important, more limited misrepresentation of facts.
We agree with the end goal, we're just not entirely sure that, being subsidized by the government of alternative facts is how you're going to get to news media outlets that present the real fact.
Let's talk about what happens when you're watchdog is beholden to the government.
So, daniel rightfully tells us, this debate isn't about the wall street journal, the washington post, those people do fine.
What happens when the government comes to, let's say, thh north northwest florida, and says: okay there are about twelve local newspapers here, each of which is dying out.
We need to save one of them, two of them, make sure that there's some quality news up here in northwest florida.
So the government tell them, look we're looking to save one of you.
And these newspapers now start to fight it out with each other, who is the one is going to be saved.
Who do you think is more likely to be saved, the newspaper that continues bashing the president, bashing the republican party, or the one who aligns with it, the one who defends kellyanne conway?
We think the most likely scenario is either, through active choice, or through bias subconscious decisions, preferring people with the same direction as they have, the government is likely to subsidize specifically those newspapers that support their side, that side with them, that don't attack them as much.
By doing this, they're taking the claws out of the reason, behind which newspapers and media is actually important: allowing the citizens to defend themselves, protect themselves against their own government.
It is important that news continue to exist, and be able to exist, and be able to run financially, but not at any cost.
Not when it's the government itself subsidizing that news, and that means that the news is beholden to the government.
At that point, the news becomes pointless.
It no longer serves its purpose, and I'm better off with less funding, and less research that at least trying to get to the truth, and do the right thing.
For these reasons, please oppose.