I'm going to talk about one main thing in this speech, and that is jus in bello, the principle of non-combatants.
Four points of refutation.
One, james tells you it's better to hit hard, make sure you kill them off, so you prevent further war.
Two responses.
A, essentially james is not accepting the need for proportionality.
Why is proportionality crucial?
Because we say there is limited justification for violence in the first place.
Proportionality is the acceptance of that limitation.
Translate this to legal grounds for example.
It is true that if, like in in in singapore, you get seven years in prison for chewing gum outside, few people will ever chew gum outside.
But that is seen as trampling over people's rights, it is non-proportional towards people.
We don't think you have any more of a right to be non-proportional toward citizens of someone else's country.
But even if you don't accept that, note, this gives you justification to attack the japanese army, they are the people who, if destroyed, would end the war.
Hiroshima and nagasaki attacked japanese citizens.
Men, women, children, old people, nothing gives you justification to attack them.
We'll get to that in a moment.
Note this is true when james says they've already shown the propensity to attack americans.
Now, they've shown the propensity to attack the american army, like they did in pearl harbor, this is entirely on a different scale.
Two, he says governments are sovereign, so shouldn't be bound by the same rules as citizens.
Fine.
Note that the massive leap from shouldn't be bound by the same rules as citizens to shouldn't be bound by any rules at all.
They have leniency in rules today, they're allowed to kill people, wherein citizens are not allowed to go anywhere near doing that.
But in a world in which governments are allowed to do whatever they want, would they think it's justified to, for example, for no reason, invade another country.
Would they think it's justified to, for example, for no reason, drop a bomb on a neighboring country, clear it out, and take over it in order to give it to your citizens.
Note by his criterion of well it's a better for my citizens, so why not, they should be able to do that.
We think that's entirely unjustified.
Three, he says the alternative is worse.
Sure, the alternative he presents may be worse.
We think bombing specifically japanese army bases gets all of his benefits without the harms of attacking innocent civilians.
Fourthly, he says if we didn't do this it would lead to a commie dictatorship.
No explanation was given for that, we don't feel the need to respond to that seriously.
Let's talk about the principle of non-combatants.
The guiding principle of ethics in war, which we don't need to invent anew every time, ethics in war is something that exists, is that you don't get to harm non-combatants.
Why is this a guiding principle?
We think the purpose of ethical war is to minimize the damage and harm done by that war.
Two reasons non-combatants is a crucial aspect.
One, the purpose of war is to defend your citizens.
At the point at which your citizens become a justified target within war, no war will ever serve the purpose of defending those citizens.
At best, it means a war in order to defend its citizens would have to be ten times more bloody, with ten times more death involved.
We think as a rule, having exceptions for citizens, not allowing to attack them, means wars are waged in a far better and less harmful way.
When james tells you the reason to do this is to prevent future harm, we tell you the reason to maintain the ethics of war and the aversion to attacking non-combatants, is because it does avoid future harm.
The second reason is that ethics have to be based on something.
In general, the ethical approach to violence is that violence is only acceptable when it is unavoidable.
Violence to citizens is always avoidable, because they don't have any threat over you.
Violence to combatants is non-avoidable, because they can threaten you back.
Citizens can't do that.
At that point we say there is no way of painting it as ethical.
For these reasons we think it is an entirely unethical to do, non-advantageous thing to do, way out of proportion, and ineffective compared to the alternative.
For all these reasons, please oppose.