Three main reasons we think the affordable care act brings more good than harm: one, it is a step in the right direction and probably the greatest step that could have been taken given the american ethos, two, it gives collective bargaining power to the little people within a medical system, and three, it anchors a broken market in price-setting.
Let's start talking about these one by one: so, first of all, let's talk about getting everyone insurance.
The american system is, to an extent, broken.
It is broken because medical healthcare, which should be a basic right afforded to anyone, regardless of how much money they have, means they have, etcetera, is considered one of those staples of the free market that america loves so much.
What does this mean?
It means that unlike most modern countries who have national health care given to them by the state, at least to some extent, and then maybe private health care on the side in order to advance, they stick by their private health care, they have all private health care.
Now, private health care is a problem because it prices at least some people out of having healthcare.
Now, they may say on the other side we agree with this, we think obamacare is problematic because it still doesn't cover everyone.
What we want to tell you is this: by making obamacare still to an extent a version of private health care, simply one that is affordable to everyone or almost everyone, you create a situation in which the american people are able to stomach the equivalent of national healthcare.
So, we think it is the best way to get to the coverage percentages that you have today, namely that only nine percent of people are now not covered by health care.
Secondly, we think it gives collective bargaining power to the weakest in society.
We think one of the biggest problems of being ill, of being poor, of being harmed is that when you need help most, there is no one there who can help you and you cannot fight for yourself.
This is not solved by private insurance companies because private insurance companies have a market around them which enables battling between them and factions to be created which means no one insurance provider has that much bargaining power versus doctors, versus hospitals, versus pharmaceutical companies.
At the point at which you create a baseline medical provider like you have in medicaid, you get substantially greater bargaining power.
This is why medicaid gets their prescriptions at a fraction of the price as anyone else on the market, because they've cornered the market on sixty-five years year-olds and up.
This is why obamacare can do the same thing for the general population.
By creating a baseline that becomes easily the most popular medical insurance in the country, they give massive bargaining power specifically to those poor people who need obamacare and therefore can't afford to pay that much for their medication or for their hospitalization.
This fixes that problem.
Lastly, it creates an anchor in a broken market.
The problem with free market in healthcare is that regardless of the price, you'll be willing to pay it if you're able to do so.
There is no price too high for saving your own life or saving the life of your loved one, your child, your wife.
Now, there is a price too high in that people are literally incapable of paying it, despite wanting to, but that is the actual line, literally being unable to pay for it.
There is no price that people would be unwilling to pay and that creates a problem in the market 'cause it means it continuously strives to go up and this is why you see rising medical care prices year after year after year.
By creating a powerful insurance company that anchors the price by saying we set the price at seventy-five dollars a month and that's where we're gonna keep it because we're government-backed and we can do this and this is what we do, you're essentially forcing all of the other insurance companies to contend with that market price, therefore creating an anchor, a price above which people won't be willing to pay not because they don't care about their health, but because at some point, they have a place where they can do it for cheaper.
For these reasons, we think obamacare has done more good than harm.