Racial profiling isn't always effective, it isn't always relevant.
Sometimes it is.
In particular neighborhoods, an individual's race may be statistically correlated positively with crime.
We think in those neighborhoods, it makes sense for a police officer to be more suspicious of someone of that race.
In airports, for example, in particular countries, being of a particular religion may be highly correlated with being with the likelihood of setting off a bomb in an airplane.
We think that is something that police should take into account when checking.
Obviously, we don't think it should happen always, we do think it should happen when it is statistically relevant and likely.
The argument we're going to make is on comparative rights.
About why police need to protect above all else.
Before that, four points of rebuttal to tim.
One.
He says a presumption of innocence needs to exist.
Note, presumption of innocence is something that exists in a courtroom, not in police suspicion.
The reason for this is because in order for police to do their job, they have to create suspects.
This is how they discover whether or not someone is actually guilty, by creating a suspect, checking if they're a suspect, and then bringing them to the court, at the worst case, for the court to decide whether or not they're innocent.
Secondly, he says there are massive harms to communities, and the truth is we agree with tim on that.
We simply think that a comparative world in which racial profiling is illegal, so to speak, is not one in which these harms happen any less.
Why?
Racial profiling did not create racism.
It did not create the notion that people of particular races are more likely to commit crimes.
We think in a situation in which racial profiling is banned, and we think this has been shown in various states across the united states where they have tried to ban it, what ends up happening is over-policing in order to get the information, so to speak, that they need in order to justify their assumptions of guilt in the first place.
We think what happens is planting of evidence after you search and frisk someone, because you are entirely sure that based on their race that person is guilty, and when you realize that they're not, in order to protect yourself, you planted a bag of weed or whatever it is on that eh on that person.
All of these things are are even more harmful to these communities when they're done, so to speak, on the black market.
Thirdly, he says it's ineffective statistically because of the history that's involved.
Well, only if you measure statistically poorly, if you only take into account the last, say, ten years and you seem to get a pretty accurate statistic depiction of who's likely to commit a crime.
And lastly, he says all of this means that this isn't really who they are deep down inside, it's just, you know, what they do.
Why in god's name should we care about what the motivations are for committing the crime when we're trying to prevent the crime?
This brings me into my first and only argument: the job of police.
We recognize that societies and individuals within societies have rights to things like privacy.
However, note, that as it stands today, we already recognize that the public's right to security supersedes the individual's right both to privacy and often to dignity as well.
Now they'll say sure, that's when you have reason to believe that.
Two responses to this.
A, note, statistically we do have reason to believe that these individuals are likely to commit a crime.
This is similar to the way that we over-police individuals who have come out of jail, even though they've supposedly paid that back their debt to society, however because of the rates of recidivism, we know they're more likely to commit another crime, and therefore take liberties with their liberties.
B, note, it's already accepted as preventative measures.
When you board a plane, your entire belongings are rummaged through.
When you walk into a public place, you're likely on CCTV being recorded.
All of this means, it is already accepted that your privacy and your dignity come second to public security.
We see no reason for that to change, just because the you in this case is grouped together around a race, around a religion, around an socioeconomic class, or around a gender.
No matter what, police need to put society first.