We should subsidize public transportation.
Two things we're going to talk about.
One, on why it is a right of individuals and therefore we have to subsidize it, and two, on why it is beneficial for everyone that public transportation be subsidized.
Before that, a little bit of mechanism.
Basically we'd like to adopt the mechanism that's pretty much everywhere in the world.
Private companies create bids, those private companies build the infrastructure and the transportation methods etcetera, and the government gives them beneficial tax breaks, subsidies if necessary, etcetera etcetera.
Obviously we make sure that their prices remain affordable to everyone, and if necessary we can further subsidize prices for the poorer citizens who need it most.
So, why is it a right.
Transportation in this day and age is a basic necessity.
Why?
Because the world is substantially larger than it was at any time in recent history.
What does that mean.
That means that even in order to get your most basic necessities, is no longer enough to go down the street to the local minimarket or whatever.
You have to be able to get on a bus and hop over to kmart, or to walmart, or to cosco, in order to get your shopping done.
You have to be able to get on a bus in order to find a job, because now housing and business are geographically separated into different zoning areas.
As cities and countries expand, the distance between the necessary places for you to get grows.
So at the point at which in order to feed your family, to work a job, and to get to the doctor, all of which require you a modus of transportation, we say it is your right to have accessible transportation.
This right should not end merely because you cannot afford to own your own car.
So that's why we think it's a right that government has to subsidize it.
We would note, if government doesn't subsidize it, it seems quite clear to us that there would not be affordable public transportation for all, because congestion, traffic and geographic density mean that monopolies would almost invariably be formed over transportation, and this means that the prices would soar quite high.
Secondly, why is it in everyone's interests.
A few things.
One, congestion.
There is a prisoner's dilemma of sort when it comes to congestion, wherein it's better to individual to drive their own car, however it's better for everyone if not everyone drives their own car.
This gets solved by creating a a replacement to your own car that is so much more affordable, that it becomes worth the lesser convenience.
Secondly, environmental issues.
Lowering the number of cars on the street also lowers the number of CO two emissions, which is better for the environment as a whole.
Again, something that otherwise is kind of a prisoner's dilemma, sort of sort of problem there.
Third, economically.
It's economically beneficial for the government if people from lower areas can travel to richer areas, in order to develop working lives and get jobs there.
This means that richer areas that require more jobs, because they can afford more things which require more help.
So for example they can afford things like cleaning services, like maids, like kitchen services and chefs, gardening, things like that.
All things that don't exist in poorer areas, but also don't have anyone to work them in the richer areas.
This means it's economically beneficial as well.
So for all these reasons, please propose.