Shimon brings two points in this debate and I'll engage with him directly on both.
First, on freedom of movement and second on the environment.
One point of framing before we get into it.
Ride sharing is a thing nowadays.
With an app on your phone, you can coordinate with ten, twelve, fifteen, twenty other people all looking at the same time to get from the same place to the same place.
Why is this important.
A, it means people aren't stuck with no alternative.
Once.
In order to get somewhere yourself you needed your own car, or to pay for your own cab.
Now you can split that cost among a bunch of people.
Note that that cost is not significantly higher than the cost of subsidies by government.
Why?
Because when you subsidize things by government it goes through layers and layers of bureaucracy which create endless amounts of waste, which means you're essentially paying for what you would have been paying for in the private market if it were available, now it is available.
Let's talk.
So shimon says freedom of movement.
Crucially, he skips over the analysis of the important bit in his speech.
He says this is a positive right, it has to enable me.
Why, is it a positive right?
Why, does it have to enable him?
Freedom of speech, for example, is one in which we do not limit what you're saying, but certainly we don't afford each person a crowd and audience once a week, once a month, in order to be able to say their piece.
We don't pay for that.
Why is that the case?
We say freedom sets stem from bodily autonomy, such as freedom of speech, such as freedom of movement, are by their nature negative rights.
What does that mean?
In the creation of the state, it was created with the purpose of of creating to an extent new rights, things that didn't exist until then and ensuring, to an extent, rights that had existed up until those points.
That's a distinction between positive rights and negative rights.
So, for example, security is an issue which the state was created in order to make anew, and therefore security is a positive right, you actively have the right to be secured.
However, at the time of creation, freedom of speech and freedom of movement were both things that you can readily do whenever you want.
The state's job was simply not to infringe upon those.
Therefore those become engrained as negative rights.
We think you don't have the right to be chauffeured around, you don't have the right to get flights from the united states to antarctica, or even from california to new york.
We don't think, we don't understand why shimon thinks that suddenly becomes a positive right on the municipal level.
Secondly, shimon says, a few examples.
He says, hey, how will kids get to school?
We think schools should set up transportation for the kids who are paying into the system in order to go to school, that's not an issue for us.
Three he says, mobilizing the poor is important.
Three responses.
A, work from home.
B, move to where the work is, or, c, create jobs instead.
This isn't necessarily referring to the poor people themselves, although we do think it would be a wonderful idea if they would all have some entrepreneurial spirit in the areas in which they live, but more importantly, the government can subsidize job creation instead of just allowing the free market to make it happen only in city centers, maybe it's a better idea to stop moving people to cities centers, and start creating jobs outside of city centres.
Then he talks about the environment.
Two things about that.
Two harms.
One, a long term harm in infrastructure.
Currently, green technology for public transportation does not exist or does not properly exist.
The problem is, at the point at which you spend into public transportation today, you're entrenching yourself because of spending on infrastructure.
If you hold off for a few years until green technology exists, you can get public transportation in a much better way, even if it is something that you need to get.
And b, on short term.
We say, government public transportation create huge amount of waste.
Yes, some of these buses are full, some of them are also running on empty.
By allowing the free market to take its course by ridesharing applications, you make sure that every dollar spent on gas is are dollars well spent, and you're not wasting more gas.
So even in the short term, we get better environmental stuff by allowing free market to take its course.
Please oppose.