Two arguments in support of teacher tenure.
Why?
On how the incentive structure in in education is broken due to the long term effects of education, and two, on attracting good teachers in the first place into the system.
Before that, four points of extraneous rebuttal.
One, note that they're unclear on what reform it is they stand behind.
They tell us we want to make it easier to fire or to revoke tenure.
That sounds like just not having tenure at all.
If you can fire someone with tenure, than that tenure is meaningless.
Two, they say we need a carrot and a stick.
They never explain why just a carrot is not good enough.
We think it generally is.
Three, they say we need the ability to promote young, talented teachers from within, at which point we say this is a very unclear framework in which they're working.
They say they have three maths teachers in the school let's say.
Two old, one young.
At the point at which they already have three math teachers in the school, we're unclear as to where this promotion is.
If you're talking about just giving the more talented math teacher who's younger the better class, it seems that within the constraints of tenure you can still switch someone from teaching the sixth grade to teaching the fourth grade.
They still have a job after that.
Fourth, they say you need to get more bang for your buck.
Look, that's literally just begging the question we say tenured teachers are more bang.
Even if not, note that tenure doesn't require particular salary restraints, just job security, which means you're not even necessarily paying them more, but we say you get more from them anyway, so even if you are paying them more, it's worth it.
First argument, why the incentive structure is broken.
Look, there's a crucial aspect of a teacher not needing to worry about his job, and that is that the measurable effect that a teacher has on students is a short term measure.
That means a teacher gets a student for about a year at a time, at which point at the end of the year, every few months, the teacher is measured based on tests.
Now, obviously if you're a really good teacher and a really good person, you want to make sure your students know as much as possible.
However, at the point at which you're worried about your job, worried about your future income, worried about having to pay rent the next month, the easier thing to do is to make the test easier to to inflate the grades of your students.
Now, they'll say to us " look, that's what standardized testing is for ".
Note that even within the framework of standardized testing, it's always easier to teach your students what kinds of questions they ask and how to answer those kinds of questions than to give them a general good base of in depth knowledge and an the zest for learning that you get when you can allow yourself to fail a few students.
Now, the failure is likely short term because if you learn how to learn, then the fact that you didn't study for a particular test, or didn't answer the right answers on a particular history test doesn't mean that ten years down the line, when you're in academia, you're not more equipped to deal with things in academia because you know how to study and the importance of studying.
So we say the incentive structure existing for teachers, if they can be fired, is skewed toward harming the education of their students, and that's the reason that it's important to keep tenure for teachers.
What's the second issue.
Proposition correctly point out that there's limited funding within the education system.
We would add to that that that funding is almost always not nearly as much as it should be.
How then do you nonetheless attack attract the brightest minds in order to teach students for years to come?
We say much like the difference between joining a start up company and joining microsoft, for example, there's a tradeoff that people make between job security and between potential profits.
Teachers are inherently undervalued for potential profits.
However, they can be attracted by gaining job security on the other hand, by allowing them tenure, by giving them tenure, we attract those people who are just as smart and willing to give up some of their potential earnings for the job security that only teaching gets you.
If we don't give them that additional security, there's absolutely no reason for a brilliant mathematician to stay teaching school kids as opposed to going to work for a high tech company.
We give them that reason, we give students a better education.
Please oppose.