Simply put, we don't think proper consent can ever exist for assisted suicide, certainly not enough so, so that we can be sure it was something that was consented into, and therefore we think it should be a criminal offense.
One tiny bit of framing.
Assisted suicide is only ever an issue for individuals who cannot commit suicide themselves.
This means we're talking about deathly ill people, intensely crippled people, things like that.
We're not talking about healthy young people who decide that, hey I want your help shooting a gun into my own head, we think that's crazy in and of itself, but simply, in that instance, enough alternatives exist at the very worst, so that assisted suicide shouldn't be allowed simply for those reasons.
Why do we think that there is no ability to properly consent into assisted suicide.
Broadly speaking, we think the people who can, so to speak, opt into assisted suicide, fall into two different categories.
The first category is people literally unable to consent, so people who are in a coma, or people who are unable to speak or sign, literally unable to give their active consent.
The second category of people is people who psychologically are unable to consent.
We think this category covers pretty much anyone in such a mental state.
Meaning, if you're at such a difficult physical and mental physical state that you're likely dying, that you're inable unable to do things, basic things, for yourself, so much so that in order to commit suicide, you would need the assistance of another person, we think you are by definition in a mental state of distress, one which makes it difficult for you, if not impossible, to make decisions, and crucially, one that makes you, to an extent, a different human being than the one that you were before such an accident occurred, or whatever it is that happened that put you in this state.
We think the shift in your circumstances is so massive, that it creates a situation in which you are essentially a different person.
What does all this mean?
Either literally someone else, as in a family member, is making the decision for you, or somebody else in a philosophical sense is making the decision for you as to what happens to you.
Now, the opposition will come and say that's fine.
This is how decisions are made for people in these situations, based on a notion that family members, for example, make a decision based on the best interest of a person.
It is sometimes in the best interest of that person to end their life, and we think a family member should be able to best suited to make that decision.
We think it's unlikely that family members can make that decision properly.
Why?
Three reasons.
One, the external pressure of deciding, not based on what's best for the patient, but based on what's best for them as an individual, is substantially higher than in most cases, because the continued life of the patient is a massive financial and time and emotional burden on the family surrounding that person.
That means we find it unlikely that they'll be able to separate their best interests from their family members' best interests.
Two, we think the situation itself is such an impossible situation, that assuming any person can deduce the best interest for somebody else is probably false.
Lastly, three, we think that the rationale behind allowing family members to make the decision in these cases is that they are the ones likely to know the best interest of that person.
However, at the point at which we think this person is an entirely different person from the one that they grew up with and loved up until now in their life, we think they're also ill-suited to figure out in the first place what is the best interest of, let's say, post-accident john.
For all of these reasons we think proper consent can never be given.
Given that this is literally a situation of life or death, we think it should not be done without proper, one hundred percent consent, and since that can never happen, we say all assisted suicide should be banned