Two reasons we oppose boarding schools.
One, because of the emotional harm, and two, because of an educational harm via a monopoly on the education of the pupils.
A few points of rebuttal.
One, james starts by telling us that there's more to education than just books.
There is physical education and there is social education.
We absolutely agree.
He never discusses how these things happen and where they happen in a boarding school.
Because we think on the social level, for example, there are always those pupils who are unpopular within their class and within their peers.
In their world, they have nowhere to go.
They have no alternative for socialization, because everyone surrounding them are the same people who mock them for being good in math class.
In our world, they get to go home, they get to socialize with their siblings, with their parents, and often with their neighbors and friends from their neighborhood.
We think we get that far more on our side of the house.
Second, he says things like tutoring and sports can happen more.
We say they're not mutually exclusive.
You can have after-school tutoring and sports in a regular school.
He says travel hinders people from doing it.
A, you can have it in the home neighborhood, but b, most people just don't travel that far from school.
People tend to go to school locally.
Thirdly, he says this reduces inequality.
We find this an odd argument, since everyone going to boarding schools are rich in the first place, because the reason they can provide so much warm food, and tutoring, and all these great things, so to speak, for their pupils, is because they have lots of money, because all their students pay a ton of money in order to go there.
So we don't think this reduces inequality, if anything, if he's right that the education here is better and that they're considered better either way, we think it increases inequality drastically in that it's only accessible to the richer students.
Fourth, he says it creates a situation in which it's easier to reduce bullying.
We don't think that's the case.
A few reasons why.
A, note that generally, the only people a pupil is willing to tell about the bullying are his parents, with whom he has such a tight, close emotional bond and enormous trust.
The reason is because the psychological harm a bully creates on the person he's bullying is such of fear, meaning that you're afraid to tell anyone about what's happening to you.
So we think it's often more difficult to discover in a situation where the person being bullied has nobody they can tell about it, such as in a boarding school.
But even when it is discovered, we think the ability to treat it is minimal, because these people are put together the entire day.
This means that they're together in class, in recesses, but also when they supposedly would have been going home to eat dinner and to go to sleep.
All of this means you cannot be watching them all the time, and that the person being bullied is constantly in fear, as opposed to being in fear, say, half the day.
Not great either way, but better on our side of the house.
Lastly, he says in real life you're away from your parents, so this is good preparation.
This is a silly argument.
It's like saying, in real life people are assholes, so we should be assholes to little kids so they get used to it.
There are things that kids need to learn in baby steps.
Being away from shelter, being away from love, being away from your parents, is one of those things that it's probably better to be picked up as a scale late in high school, maybe in university, than during grade school.
Let's talk about our two arguments.
One, on emotional harm.
Put very simply.
We say children and teenagers have emotional needs, and these needs partially can only be met by their parents.
At the point at which you rip a child away from his home, note, with no agreement of that child who generally has no say at that point, it creates immense emotional distress to that child.
Now, some of them deal with it fine, others don't, and we think that's massively problematic.
Secondly, we say there's an educational harm via a monopoly on education.
One of the greatest things about school is that it is one out of two fountains of knowledge, the second one being discoverable alone by the child through friends, through family, or through the internet.
All of this doesn't happen when the person is at boarding school constantly being watched by the people entrusted to educate him.
Now, what does that mean?
Sure, he gets more knowledge from those people, but he only has one individual single source of knowledge which is not combatted with anything.
We say in general, that is bad for your source of knowledge to not be combatted with any other external sources of knowledge, it gives too much power to the people educating you, and for all these reasons we oppose the motion.