Time is a human construct, and one we've grown too attached to.
We should end daylight savings time.
Not because it's not beneficial to be awake during sunlight, or to have sunlight after working hours, for some people.
Not even because it's not overall, more beneficial than it is harmful to others, but, because there is a solution that is much more elegant.
Let's take a look first who gets harmed by daylight savings time.
So, the main problem, that daylight savings time creates, is a, all of the various people who need to work outdoors, now need to have their working day be more in the dark hours, so to speak, right?
You have to wake up before sunrise, and therefore you're working during the dark, during the cold, it's less convenient, so to speak.
This includes people on boats, this includes farmers, this includes outdoorsmen of any type.
Secondly, it hurts trade between companies right?
If you're unclear about exactly what time it is, in new york right now for example, and you're not sure if you should subtract seven, or subtract eight, or if we switched the clock and they didn't yet, or we both switched the clock already south back to seven, it makes it more difficult to communicate.
We recognize this is probably, not particularly significant, but it is a little annoying, and honestly, nothing in this debate is particularly significant, it's all a little bit annoying.
On the plus side, people get sunlight after work, they can enjoy things like shopping and recreational activities, which are potentially somewhat hindered by not having natural daylight when you're done with work, though honestly, quite minimized at the point where regular like human light exists, and is easily used.
So what do we see as the more elegant solution?
Imagine if, instead of changing the entire country's clocks forward an hour, and seven o'clock now becomes eight o'clock, your employer told you between june and august, you now show up at work at seven instead of at eight?
Literally, every single one of the benefits now exists.
Instead of the day being an hour earlier, you start your day an hour earlier.
Note, if your corporation does a lot of business abroad, that means you are constantly seven hours behind, or whatever about the time it is behind, even though locally, your working hours have shifted.
It means breaking out of the idea that, if you wake up at seven today, you have to wake up at seven tomorrow.
Because waking up at seven, and waking up at six are the same, because in one case you went to bed at ten, and the other case you went to bed at nine.
Yes, that's a lot of time to sleep.
If you can recognize that time is a human construct, you can recognize that we are able to play with it on a more individual level.
Why is the solution more elegant?
A, it means you're not limited to a specific one hour.
It means that, if you so please you can break that up into four, and say: come in half an hour earlier here, an hour earlier here, half an hour later there, and an hour later there.
B, it means that, wherever it's useful, a corporation or a business can choose to adopt it.
To people to whom it's not useful, maybe parents, maybe schools, maybe outdoor workers, they can choose not to adopt it.
This means everyone wins, instead of some people wining.
For these reasons, we should end daylight saving time and just play with time a little bit more.