Culturally, many things have changed over the past years, decades, centuries.
Physiologically, most things have remained the same.
We're gonna talk to you about rationality and the public sphere, objectification, and a rape culture, what all this has to do with public nudity.
Before that a few points of extraneous rebuttal.
One, shimon says our criteria is a harm to society.
Good, we're fine with that and the reason it was harmful to society so far is because it was offensive.
Now, not fine with that.
Don't really care about that.
We're gonna talk about the real harm this creates to society but notice one thing, if it were because it's offensive it's just blatantly untrue that it's not offensive anymore today.
Shimon says people see these things in movies so obviously it's not offensive.
The setting in which you watch movies is entirely different than your ability to opt in and out of movies is entirely different note for example MPAA ratings are still letting people choose to ensure kids don't see this, it's a little more difficult to insure kids don't go out into the public sphere.
Though I think a lot of people are still going to be massively offended, note we don't think that's particularly the reason to ban it if shimon does that then it should be banned.
Two, shimon says look we allow things like sexy billboards in the public sphere we absolutely shouldn't.
Those entrench objectification of women in a massive and negative way.
In fact we don't think we should allow sexy billboards anywhere.
Lastly, shimon talks about self image and how it improves.
Sure, if you force everyone to walk around naked because if not all you get is a generation of people spoon-fed in media and television that everyone is exceptionally attractive just like today and then go out in the into the public sphere and have that reinforced because the only people willing to walk around naked are those whose bodies apply stand by the standard set by media television et cetera.
We say the only thing you do by allowing public nudity is reaffirm all those sigmas, all those biases and make them that much worse.
Let's talk about rationality.
So two things should be patently clear.
One, nudity creates a state of arousal.
This is undeniable, this is across all cultures across times not in every single situation obviously and it can be greater or lower but the state of arousal created by nudity is reasonably undeniable.
Secondly, and this is important, states of arousal lower the rational capacity of individuals.
Why?
Because pheromones shot into the brain cloud over other processes that the brain is usually engaged in.
This is why most people, when asked in a calm state whether or not they would ever have unprotected sex, would say no.
However, lots of people, when getting to a state of arousal and realizing they don't have a condom, do it anyway.
What does this mean?
It means a, you create people, substantially more people, in a state of arousal and b, you do it in a way that creates likely objectification.
Why does it create likely objectification?
Because the external culture cannot be ignored.
Most times that women are nude it's not because of happy free choice it's because an external culture forces that on them like in movies, like in media, like in the advertisements shimon mentioned.
That means that a lack of of of rationale is added into a culture of objectification, creating likely more objectification.
Objectification in turn if the core root of rape culture.
If you take a mass group of mindless people overcome by sexual desire constantly and feed them objectification, we think that feeds directly into rape culture and that is the harm to society that we're trying to avoid.
Please oppose.