The harms and benefits of water fluoridation are clear cut.
What are they?
The harms are, a, the economic costs.
It costs money to fluoridate the water and the government is currently paying that bill.
And b potential of over fluoridation, meaning people who ensure to brush their teeth every day and get fluoride from that and other topical treatments are also drinking this water and they may be exposed to more fluoride than is recommended.
The benefits are also clear.
Ensured fluoride exposure to everyone.
Everyone gets the amount that they need, at least.
Let's compare those two.
The first point of comparative is going to be on the extent of damage by lack of fluoride versus the extent of damage of too much.
The second one is going to be on the financial costs and on the government's responsibility to bear them.
Let's talk about the comparative harms.
So not having fluoride means massive tooth problems.
It means tooth decay, it means cavities, it means root canals.
All of these are things that are, a, massively painful to the individuals, b, of great financial harm because they cost a lot of money to fix and c often not even repairable.
So as far as how they feel or how they look they're quite bad for the individual.
Compare that to over too much fluoride exposure.
You get unclear harms wherein there is minor deformation of the teeth in a way that is neither noticeable visually nor painful nor problematic for the use of teeth when it comes to chewing etcetera.
So it may be true that there is a limit to which fluoride is good for you and passing that limit is no longer good for you but we say it's not particularly bad for you.
Certainly when compared to not having enough of it.
Fluoridating the water ensures that everyone has at least enough of it and we think that is a much greater benefit to those who wouldn't otherwise have enough, then it is a harm to those who now have too much.
Secondly let's talk about financial harms and covering those costs.
So we think fluoride costs less than a lack thereof.
Why?
Take a look at the groups most likely to otherwise not have enough fluoride.
Those groups are a the financially disadvantaged, those who for reasons of time, of money, or even of education, are less likely to be able to get the topical treatments on a day to day basis in the quantity necessary.
And b, children.
Kids who just haven't figured out yet that brushing their teeth is really important and are busy looking for ways to convince their parents that they brush their teeth even though they haven't really.
Both of these are groups whose dental expenses fall largely on governments.
This means that the cost needs to be compared to that of filling cavities, of doing root canals, etcetera.
We think those costs are much much greater.
So for all these reasons please fluoridate the water.