They paint it with a brush of economic prosperity and equality of opportunity, but the only thing they're doing here is saving a sinking ship.
Higher education, as a market tool, is a sinking ship, and we don't want to save it with the dime of the taxpayer.
What we're going to talk to you about today is inflation of degrees, why that's so harmful, how subsidizing higher education pushes that through, and what our alternative world looks like.
Before that, two responses.
One: note, daniel says, economically this is economically beneficial because it is necessarily necessary for employment.
Note that leap.
No explanation on why it's necessary for employment and crucially, no explanation on why it should be necessary for employment.
He's right that in today's economy, employers look to see whether or not you have a degree.
We think it's high time that changes.
A degree no longer means what it used to mean and no longer is necessary in a way that it used to be necessary.
We'd like to cut cut out the middleman.
Secondly, he says basically it's important for people to be intelligent so they don't vote for donald trump.
Information is available, his correlations here are are just off, yeah, it's not like people went to university and then learned not to vote for donald trump.
It's those who were intelligent in the first place, went to university, honestly we prefer them to sit at home and watch educational videos on youtube.
So let's talk about inflation of degrees.
We've gotten to a point that a degree is necessary in order to get into a job.
Now this made sense at some point.
At some point, it was a case that information was generally available only through higher education.
Offices wanted to make sure that they had informed and intelligent people and so they checked for a degree in order to make sure that they had that.
And so more universities and more colleges were built that gave out this degree, and more people opted into getting this degree, and more people presented it in order to get a job, and then more jobs said, " oh, look, we can ask for this too, " and it propelled itself to the point where so many more people today have degrees than ever before.
Where is the problem?
Two such problems: one, a university degree no longer means what it used to mean.
Given all the colleges out there, oftentimes these degrees essentially means somebody sat through classes, slept through half of them for about three years, and we stamped a piece of paper at the end.
Two, it is by far no longer the exclusive way of getting an education.
Academia is available for free online in almost every form.
You can get in to academic papers online, you can get actual academic courses online, you can get shortened versions of courses.
You can educate yourself via youtube, via fiverr, via any selection of websites available.
Why is this problematic?
Because at the point at which you subsidize a degree, you continue the notion that in order to advance in life, you get a degree.
You hear it through all of daniel's speech as a reason for why we should subsidize this degree.
Essentially, though, a person is wasting quite a bit of money even if you're not paying for the degree.
You're still paying for where to live, you're still paying by not working during your degree, by the way, a massive economic harm on their side of the house, where you could have been learning all of this for free on your computer in your home, when you're taking time off from the job that you already hold.
How do we shift it?
At the point at which fewer and fewer people get a degree, businesses now have an incentive to create other exams to test a person's knowledge.
So you check employment history.
So you set up a computer room and see how many of you can actually program, how many of you can actually code, all things that you can learn online.
At that point, we save massive amount of money, we enable more social mobility because a computer and internet will always be more available to poor people than university and three, four years of not holding a job so that you can attend school, and we improve the economy overall because we get people into the workforce earlier.
For all these reasons, don't subsidize degrees, don't continue this farce of academia.