We think television does more harm than good.
The comparative which we wish to set up in this debate, is one that regards content and not medium.
The content we're talking about is entertainment.
We're including things like alternative modes of viewings, such as movie theaters, such as streaming on the internet on your computer, etcetera.
As far as we're concerned, it's television shows and movies that we're discussing in this debate.
Note, this debate is not about abolishing these things, but rather an analysis debate, about whether they do more good than harm.
Three arguments in this side of the debate: one, on sheer time consumption of television, relative to other leisure activities, two, on a system that creates incentives of a race to the bottom regarding content, and three, on a creation of negative socialization.
So first, let's talk about time consumption.
There's a balance to be stricken between leisure time, and time which should be spent doing things, like improving your future, doing things like work, doing things like teaching your family, or whatever it is you ought to be doing.
We say that, television oversteps its boundary of time consumption, for four reasons: one, it is very accessible and easy, meaning it takes very minimal energy to set up a television show, and to watch it over and over and over, continuously in loops.
This means that, when compared with other activities, both leisure ones, such as reading, and important ones, such as doing work for example, you're often tempted by the choice which is easier, and that means television overtakes most other activities.
Secondly, we say there's very little added benefit, we'll get into that more in the incentives regarding the content itself.
But, it seems clear to us that, TV shows like desperate housewives, or reality TV in general, often offer very little as far as content go.
Three, often you get an adverse effect, of getting negative content, we'll talk about that in the next argument, and four, we say it's often very addictive compared to books, for example, or other activities.
The reason behind this is it's planned to be so, each episode ends with some sort of cliffhanger, so you have to watch the next episode, in order to satiate the need for completion after the episode you just watched.
Each movie sets itself up for the sequel to come after.
We say, this is, to an extent, sometimes true in books, but to a far lesser degree than it is so in movie.
Secondly, the system creates incentives for a race to the bottom regarding content.
Why?
The system makes money by selling itself to as many people as possible.
In order to do so, there's often an incentive to aim for the lowest common denominator, namely: sex, gore, and violence.
We think this is particularly problematic, because it over emphasizes these things in society.
We'll get to that in a moment, but often we think these things are simply negative in and of themselves, perhaps not sex, but certainly over sex, and certainly violence and gore, are simply negative things to be exposed to, and detrimental to individuals to be exposed to, over and over again.
Lastly, on the creation of negative socialization.
Specifically, we think television acts as a agent of socialization for most people in modern society, because it act as their gateway to the external society outside of their house, their family, and their community.
This means, what the world looks like is generally things that they've learned from television.
Crucially, without television, you'd still learn these things, but likely from more accurate sources, like news outlets, or friends from other places.
Why is this so bad?
Because of the adverse incentives within television, you often learn the wrong things about the rest of the world, in a way that sets up expectations of a world, which are never likely to be met, which sets up individuals for failure.
For all of these reasons, please support the motion.