We should abolish standardized testing.
So when we talk about standardized testing we're talking on a big scale, right?
We're not talking about, don't administer the same test to the twelve kids in this one classroom, but rather national or state level standardized testings, things like the SAT's, things like standardized high school matriculation exams, etcetera.
Standardized testing, on its face, seems quite simple, right?
If you can ask everyone the same question and give everyone the same result for the same answer, that would be a more objective measure of what a person is capable of.
Life isn't always that simple.
Two arguments that we're going to make.
One is that this is a false display of ability which hinders social mobility, and two, on the interests in stakeholders involved in involving politics within education.
So first let's talk about a false display of ability.
What you need to recognize is that the education and information available to individuals within certain economic frameworks are prima facie larger than those of others.
This means that in order to learn x material, a person from a well off family with a fully stocked library at home, with access to the best of teachers, with funding for private tutors, is all much much easier than if you don't have these means, that if you have to spend two hours on the bus every day in order to even get to school in the first place, then if after school you also have to work a few hours in order to ensure that your family has enough food to eat.
What does all of this mean?
It means that if you want to measure someone's potential to be a good employee, or if you want to measure someone's potential to succeed in academia, an a from eaton is not the same as an a from a public high school in the bronx, because an a from eaton, on the same questions asked of the public high school from the bronx, is much much easier to get.
The proper measure of an individual's ability would be to take all that into account.
However, standardized testing doesn't allow you to do that.
It doesn't account for the identity and the lived experience of the test takers themselves.
If you're going to measure those two people on the same exact test you're essentially asking which of them has an easier life, and promoting that person.
This doesn't allow the kind of social mobility that the educational system is in place in order to facilitate in the first place.
So we think standardized testing harms the core purpose of education.
But secondly, we think it doesn't even do what it set out to do well in the first place because of political incentives.
See, the problem is that the point at which you get to state level or national level, you have to have some people agreed upon to write this test.
Those people are amiable to pressure groups, and those pressure groups are likely to come from those who are already politically and economically well-off.
If the people running the private schools can more easily influence those people writing the questions, it means they more easily and more readily can prepare their students to specifically answer the questions on the test, which gives yet another unfair advantage.
So because ignoring peoples lived experiences is a bad idea, and because allowing politics into exams is an even worse idea, please oppose standardized testing and support the motion.