The insanity plea puts in the hands of a jury a decision that should be in the hands of a trained psychiatrist.
What are we talking about in this debate?
We do not think that these people should go untreated and unpunished.
We think that they should be either treated or punished.
We think this decision, however, should not be in the hands of a jury.
What do we mean?
The court should be making a decision on whether or not this individual is guilty or not guilty, as in did this individual commit or not commit the act attributed to this individual.
At a second stage, this individual can appeal to a psychiatrist, at which point the psychiatrist can determine whether or not this individual is psychiatrically responsible for for his actions.
At this point, the psychiatrist makes the decision as to whether this person is sent to prison to be punished for their actions, because they do not need psychiatric attention, or to a psychiatric facility to be treated for their condition, because they need assistance.
Now we'll make two arguments.
A, why not guilty is not an option, and b, who should decide regarding prison verses institutionalize.
So first, let's talk about why not guilty is not an option.
To be clear, we do not claim that all of these people are guilty, as far as, let's call it, criminally liable.
However, we think set free should not be an option, assuming the individual committed the act.
What does this mean?
Not guilty, in most scenarios, means this person gets to go home.
Now, assume for a moment the fact that the individuals we're talking about are those who fact finding determined did in fact commit the act attributed to them, which is usually when you use the insanity plea anyway.
Two reasons why these people should not get to go home.
A, one of the main jobs of prison is protecting society from people likely to commit a crime again, regardless of if this person is mentally insane in a constant state, or can be driven to mental insanity based on extraneous circumstances, either way, an individual who has committed a crime based on a mental state is likely, more likely than most, to commit that crime again.
This means that in order to protect external society, this individual needs to be watched over.
Secondly, rehabilitation.
One of the main causes for the prison system is to attempt to rehabilitate individuals, so they do not commit crimes again.
Now, to be sure, mentally insane people need to be rehabilitated differently than mentally able people.
However, they still, and possibly more so, need to be rehabilitated in the form of a mental institution that checks if a, they need psychological help, and b, they need psychiatric help in the form of pills, etcetera.
All of this means that when an individual has committed a violent act, a crime, even if they were not cognitively responsible for that act, they need to be treated, they need to be sent to a facility, and going home is not an option.
Now the question moves on to be, who should make this decision.
Should it be the court the the jury's or should it be psychiatric professionals.
At this point we say mental state is substantially more difficult to determine than than guilt versus non-guilt.
Why?
A, it is internal to the individual, which means that it cannot be based on external facts, the same way criminality can be.
B, as are most things medical, it is complicated in such a way that it is determined much better by medical professionals.
Imagine if I sat you in front of twelve of your peers and asked them whether or not you had cancer.
It is unlikely you would trust their decision making abilities.
The same is true for dementia, the same is true for clinical depression.
This is a decision that should be made by a mental health professional, and leaving it up to the jury is detrimental both to society and to the individual who is now more likely to go untreated.
For all these reasons, abandon the insanity plea.