Two arguments on the cultural rights of societies and on restrictions versus a ban.
Before that, clearly what we stand for on this side of the house is restricting whaling to responsible whaling.
James says to us: " you can't hunt responsibly, because look at japan they ignore the ban. "
That's exactly the point.
Some countries will ignore what you tell them to do.
This is true if you restrict them, this is also true if you ban them.
We see no reason why restrictions would work less well than a ban.
In fact, we think it's more likely that restrictions will work than a ban.
Why?
A, because some countries only want some whales.
If they listen to restrictions they can get everything they want while still being within the realm of what the international communities want for them.
Note that they also have incentives to listen to international restrictions because it affects things like international trading, like relations with other countries etcetera.
So if you give them enough they're likely to listen to it.
Secondly, because for countries eh with, for whom it is a cultural aspect to do whaling for example, at the point at which you ban it from them they feel like you're attacking their culture and they attack back.
At the point at which you limit it for them, then their culture can still be created and can still be practiced and they're likely to just adhere to the limitations.
Few more points of rebuttal: one, james tells us it's a keystone species.
Note that means that it also needs to be kept in check.
Meaning if the population of whales gets out of hand then all of those things that the whale eats, that james goes way too much about, are likely to be over hunted as well and that's just as harmful.
This means that maybe we've been doing too much whaling, maybe it needs to be limited even more in the near future, but in general we need to make sure that the whale population doesn't grow too large.
Secondly he says they are a charismatic megafauna.
Love that he knows that.
Note that that point is on our side of the house.
Why?
Because it requires the species to be in some sort of danger.
This means it happens more when that species is hunted to an extent and in danger to an extent, is able to get people involved.
People like james arguing for for the banning of this hunting, than if they're already protected by laws that say you cannot hunt them.
That means no involvement is necessary and that means fewer people get involved.
Three, he says there are other side effects that no one can predict.
This is just scaremongering.
Either you can tell us what these side effects are or they're just as likely to happen if you allow the whale population to not be hunted, grow out of proportion etcetera etcetera, that can also lead to unexpected side effects.
Lastly he says a bunch of assertions at the end of his speech the crucial thing to note is they all assume extinction of whales which doesn't happen under responsible hunting, which we already show you why it's as likely to work as a ban is.
So first let's talk about a cultural right.
Because we say the same way that jewish people get to to to shakht animals in a kosher way in order to respect their culture, the same way that you have the running of the bulls in spain, you are allowed to practice your culture even at the expense, to some extent, of animal rights because we recognize that the individuality of human cultures gets prioritized over rights of animals.
Now, if they were to stand here and say no animals should ever be hunted, then they may have a morally consistent case.
But at the point at which they say that I'm allowed to kill a cow merely because I find it tastes better than a chicken or than tofu, it seems unlikely that I'm not allowed to do it because it is culturally significant to my people.
All of this comes to tell you there is good reason to allow some people to hunt whales.
What does this mean?
It means that restrictions ought be prioritized over an outright ban.
We already tell you are restrictions are more likely to work properly because of a feeling of mutual acceptance between all the sides, as opposed to an aggressive ban, but we also think also think that it allows better maintenance of all of the rights involved when you on the one hand ensure that the animals get maintained that don't go extinct, but on the other hand also ensure that the human beings involved have an appreciation and the ability to practice their culture properly.
For all those reasons we beg you to oppose the motion.