Two arguments in opposition of subsidizing electric cars: one, electric cars don't actually save on greenhouse gas emissions or help the environment.
They simply move the negative effects of these things to other poorer areas who suffer more.
Two, there is a counternarrative to subsidizing electric cars and that is subsidizing proper public transportation.
We think this money is exchangeable because there is limited ability to spend government funding on transportation and limited political capital for doing so.
These come at the expense of one another and we'd prefer to spend it on public transportation.
Two points of rebuttal: one, yaar says there's problems today such as fuel crisis pollution and oil dependency.
We agree with all of these problems.
We don't agree that electric cars solve any of them.
Crucially, yaar gives you no reason to believe that they do.
He simply asserts it.
Two, yaar says there's a strong lobby and that strong lobby is preventing lawmakers from creating infrastructure which is necessary for the usability of electric cars.
Three responses to this: a, there is no need for government controlled infrastructure electric cars drive on the same roads.
They pull over for the same amount of time.
The only thing you need is private gas stations to purchase private land or indeed maintain the private land that they already own and put a charging station in it.
That is not an infrastructure issue, that is a company's business interest.
Secondly, public support ought balance this out.
If electric cars are as great as yaar thinks and many of the population seem to think they're that great, then you get credit back, you get public support which at least balances out some lobbies thinking that you're hurting them.
Thirdly, if yaar's right and policy makers are preventing infrastructure that is necessary, we're unsure how any of this gets solved.
Presumably, you cannot call paying off policy makers a subsidy.
No matter how cheap the car becomes after your subsidy, if you have nowhere to gas it up or no way to drive it and it's an useless car, you're still not gonna buy it, which means if that's the problem with the market, subsidies don't solve it in any way.
One, why don't we actually save on greenhouse gas emissions?
So, first off, the electricity used is often produced by coal, for example, which is just as harmful for the environment.
Crucially, the coal production is all more localized than cars going around, which means that the negative impacts of its production are even worse because they're all attacking in the same place.
Secondly, creation of the battery itself takes an enormous amount of energy which is just as pollutant.
The only difference is that's done far away where poor people live and can't control it as much, as opposed to in my backyard.
The only thing this policy does is move the detrimental effects of climate change from everyone's burden to poor people's burden.
We think that's negative.
Secondly, we think all of yaar's problems are solved better by public transportation.
Public transportation can remove oil dependency, it can create substantially less pollution, and it can avert the fuel crisis, particularly if you're talking about electric public transportation.
Crucially, it, more so than anything else, requires the infrastructure being blocked by the lobbies that yaar talks about and requires the intervention of subsidies in order to be created.
We think public transportation solves all of yaar's problems substantially better.
We think yaar's problems don't get solved by his solution.
We beg you to oppose.