Two arguments.
One, when a fuel tax does and does not work, and two, on the alternative of taxing the product that consumes the fuel, as opposed to the fuel itself.
Two points of refutation before that.
One.
As soon as james defines this debate as including things like heating your home, james loses this debate.
Because on the backs of poor people living in northern minnesota, who have to decide now whether or not they can heat their home in order for their family and their children to survive the winter, they are now deciding that they're the ones who need to pay the negative externalities of climate change.
We think it shouldn't be that.
We think it should probably be the factories, who have polluted more than any individual over the years.
We think it should probably be distinguished between people who need to use this gas because they have no other alternative, and people who don't.
But either which way, by making something that is a necessity, such as gas for cooking and heating, something that is taxed at a higher rate, you essentially lose this debate immediately.
Secondly, he says this allows us to fund alternative energies.
Note, this is non-comparative on why it is this type of tax.
This debate is about the method of collection, not the method in which that money should be used, we're happy to earmark the same amount of money for creating energy efficient alternatives for fuels.
First.
When does fuel tax work and not work.
We say the essential distinction is whether or not you've already bought in to the large item which consumes the fuel.
So obviously, we're talking about if you've already bought a car.
Now that heating homes is part of this as well, so when the building owner has already decided whether or not he's going to put gas radiators in all of the apartments in the building or not.
Why is this when the important decision is being made?
Because once the car has been purchased, any additional purchase of gas, over the radiator, any additional time you turn the gas on, is essentially miscalculated due to sunk cost.
Because it will generally be cheaper for me to drive somewhere that you pay to take the bus to that place, but that's only because I'm not taking into account the things like the price of the car, because I already paid for it.
So in order to make this calculation properly done, I need to do it before the individual has already opted in to a large expensive product.
Note, even when the bus is cheaper, there's a fallacy of sunk cost, that says because I've already paid so much money for this car, for example, it is more worth it for my convenience to make sure I use the car, otherwise the money that I paid would, quote unquote, be wasted.
So we think more people can be dissuaded from using gas if you dissuade them from purchasing the product itself which uses the gas, as opposed to the gas that the product uses.
Why is that a better tax, why do we think this is more fair, for example.
Two reasons we think it's better.
One, this tax is non-regressive.
What does that mean?
It means a poor person and a rich person are no longer paying the same amount of tax, because it is much easier to tax a car also like to to progressively tax a car, a, based on it being a car, which is something that poor people aren't necessarily going to opt into paying for in the first place, but also based on the quality of cars.
So for example, I can tax a luxury car more than I would tax the most basic form of car.
The same goes for heating system.
The more luxurious the heating system, the higher a tax rate I can put on it, for example.
But secondly, we say it creates a better solution as well.
Because if an individual buys a car and then only uses that car when he's driving inside the city, so yeah, he's using less gas, but he's still creating more congestion, which is both bad for the environment and bad for the the quality of life of the people within that city.
By avoiding buying the car in the first place, we've created a much better solution to the problem.
What will they say in opposition?
They'll tell us these things aren't necessarily mutually exclusive, and they're right.
However, we think they should be.
We think to some extent, people have a right to choose, and should be able to afford things like a car, like driving around if they choose to do so.
We think it is wrong to tax all across the board, and we think if we need to choose between two taxes, then a tax on the product itself is far superior to a tax on the fuel.
For all these reasons, oppose fuel tax.