Genetically modified crops do far more good than harm.
Genetically modified crops are advancements in science and technology that allows better strains of various crops, mostly food crops.
So this means better wheat, better fruit and vegetables, better grains, etcetera.
What do we think the advancements are, then, what do we think the disadvantages are, and then, why we think that the advantages outweigh the disadvantages.
So, three specific advantages that we see to genetically modified crops.
First, minimizing land restriction on crop.
So this means that the GMO's have, GMCs, have the ability to enable crops to a, grow closer to each other, meaning, more crops and less land, and, b, grow in land otherwise unable to grow crops.
So this means for example, that more and different types of soil become fertile soil in which crops can be grown.
Why is this so advantageous?
Firstly, on a local level, this opens up the market more significantly.
This means, that if only certain areas were capable of growing crops until now, more areas can grow crops tomorrow when crops can grow in various types of soil.
On an international level, this also means that entire countries who up until now had difficulty sustaining themselves, because they are unable to grow crops in the soil that that country has, are now able to grow better and more types of crops.
Lastly, it means that as in population growth, we need more and more land for habitation and business, while simultaneously needing more land for crops in order to feed more people.
However, if the land mass necessary for feeding people shrinks, that means we get the land that we need, or at least, minimize the problem.
So that's on land restriction.
Secondly, on weather resistance.
We think often these crops become a lot more weather resistant through GMCs what does that mean, it means that on the first level, farmers are now lots less susceptible to major losses due to unforeseen weather events.
That means that if a tornado suddenly comes by, or even a cold spout, they don't now lose their entire crop, which is both massively harmful to them as individuals trying to get business but, also to society who needs to buy that produce in order to sustain themselves.
Secondly, on an international level once again, the environments of many other countries previously unable to grow crops, become more able to do so at the point at which the crops are more weather resistant.
Lastly, on insects and bacteria resistance.
Often what happens with these GMCs, is that they're grown in order to fight off various insects and bacteria.
Once again, this, a, saves many crops from unforeseen infestations that make them inedible, b, it is healthier in general for individuals to ingest crops that are less prone to bacteria such as e coli for example, and, thirdly, it means that fewer pesticides are necessary, which are harmful both for the crops and for the environment.
What's the counter weight?
A, or not healthy and environmental harm, we say both of these are, a, scientifically false, b, can be controlled for, IE you can limit a crop if that particular strand of GMC turns out to be unhealthy, or harm the environment, and c, gets balanced out by the ability to feed millions of hungry people.
Lastly on IP law, we think this is analogous to pharmaceuticals and saying we shouldn't develop medications for illnesses killing people because there's IP law.
That IP law can be manageable, and can be limited, but the developments created based on the ability to make a profit on this are so enormous they outweigh any harm of temporary monopolies over this.
For all these reasons, please support GMCs.