A crucial point of framing for this debate: the way economics work is that people tend to advance themselves as much is economically feasible and beneficial to them, to their state, to their nation.
When james talks about further exploiting green technology, what james essentially then is telling you is prioritizing the use of green technology, over the advancement, and sustainability even, of the economy.
It is over fueling the green technology, and that's crucial to keep in mind.
We're going to talk to you about today's problems versus tomorrow's problems, and why right now we need to focus on today, I e focus on the economy.
Before that, three points of extraneous rebuttal: one, james says, look one day we're going to need this technology, and it's crucial to be energy efficient, or free, whatever.
So, we need to start doing it now.
Our response is simple: do not confuse exploit with explore, we are all for exploring, for this and other reasons.
We want to continue learning how to have economically efficient green energy, and once we managed to do that, we are happy to use, and switch to that green energy, not exploiting the exceptionally sub par versions of green energy that we have today.
Two, he says we have a duty to future generations.
We accept this, but to an unequal degree.
We say, we have some duty to future generations, we have a greater duty to current generations, the same way you have some duty to your neighbor, but a greater duty to your family, the same way you have some duty to the world, but a greater duty to your country.
B, he says the problems may become irreversible.
We say this is scaremongering.
One of two things is true: either, it is irreversible today, in which case it's pointless to invest in, or, it is not irreversible today, in which case james has no evidence that it's likely to become irreversible at any point.
Either way, this is simply scare mongering.
Lastly, he says something about human potential, see our answer to one, don't confuse exploit and explored.
Let's talk about today's problems.
Currently, there is massive uprisings of far right all across the globe.
There is persecution in syria, and refugee crisis across europe, and indeed other places as well.
All of these are things that stem at their core from economic problems.
Poor countries and poor people uprising against others, because they feel abused, because they feel powerless.
By making a choice to prioritize the environment over the economy, you're essentially exacerbating these people's problems, by saying you matter so little, that you matter less than people who do not even exist yet.
We say that's massively problematic.
We say it is better to create stability by prioritizing economic progress, at least for the time being.
One more crucial piece: like we said in the rebuttal, the current green energy that exists is sub par by further exploiting it, you're creating infrastructure, and regularity, with energy that is far from efficient.
By first further exploring it, finding proper green energy, and only fed implementing it, you're doing a much smarter long term plan, for both economic stability and green energy.
So, because there is quite a massive downside for green energy now, and because there exists an alternative that is preferable in both arenas, please oppose the motion.