Two things that international volunteering does: a, it perpetuates a cycle of future volunteering and b, it creates a cycle of future investments.
Those will be our arguments in this debate.
Before that, three points of rebuttal: one, yaar starts off his speech by saying if the comparative would be between volunteering abroad and not volunteering at all, obviously we'd prefer that people would volunteer abroad.
Note he then doesn't explain to you why that is in fact the likely comparative.
In fact, we think that they highly unlikely comparative.
Why?
We think international volunteering offers a unique selling point that local volunteering does not.
A, it combines volunteer work with a special adventure with a special kind of trip that most people want to experience, so it's not a coincidence that most people do this volunteer work either between high school and college or right after college before they get a job.
They find it to be a unique time in their lives where they can take the time off and experience something.
We think if they weren't going to go volunteer in these places, they'd likely simply take a trip to these places and go on a large vacation.
But b, because it is unique in time it means that they have to go now.
It sets a deadline for them as opposed to all of the people sitting at home on their butts saying well I'll start volunteering next week or maybe I'll go on thanksgiving because since the door is constantly open they never feel the need to walk through.
Secondly, we say even if it is true that it is mutually exclusive with local volunteering, we think that doesn't mean that it does more harm than good.
We think the impact of the volunteers work is substantially more in third world nations.
Yaar says look, a hungry family as a hungry family.
That may be, but building a classroom for a community who for years has gone uneducated because they literally didn't have the building in which to teach people or the material work with which to teach students is always going to be substantially more impactful than volunteering at your local dog shelter.
C, yaar says an emotional bond is made and then you leave and that's harmful to them.
Note the assertion is and then you leave.
The assertion on yaar's speech is that after one year you go home and you move on.
That leads me right to my first point on future volunteering.
Two points: one on yourself and b on others.
As far as yourself goes, we think that same emotional connection that you get creates two things: one, an emotional connection to the specific people in community with whom you volunteered which means it's more likely that you'll continue volunteering them perhaps in your summers, perhaps just sending money there every out of every paycheck and two, an emotional connection to the act of volunteering and the feeling of elation that you get from helping others.
We think that means that volunteering abroad makes it more likely that you'll volunteer when you get home.
Two, we say it also impacts the way others see volunteer work because if volunteer work is seen as a chore than the scene is one that is difficult and unwanted but at the point at which people see some people donating their lives to this extent, going across borders, across countries in order to volunteer we think it makes those people feel more bad about not doing anything and therefore more likely to volunteer locally.
So international volunteering doesn't hurt local volunteering.
In fact, it helps it.
How does it also help future investment in third world nations?
We say the types of people who go volunteer, the types of people who soon are starting a business or career of their own, and crucially are often more well off to the extent that they can afford to take a year and work unpaid labor across the world.
These people then get two connections to third world nations: a,they get an emotional connection to the specific communities and nations in which they work and b, they get an insight into the types of businesses that those places would need in order to perpetuate their economy.
We think this type of face to face meeting means that these volunteers are more likely to incorporate these places in future business endeavors which helps the long term investment into these nations and therefore helps their economies grow on a much larger scale.
For all of these reasons it is clear that international volunteering does far more good than harm.