Two reasons urbanization does far more good than harm.
One on public goods, and two on natural preservation.
Before that, three points of extraneous rebuttal.
One, james talks to you about familial network breakdown.
Two responses to this.
A, note this is transitional at best, which means at the point at which one person moved to the city that harms that person's family.
However, that person starts a new family in the city, as do many around him, and those people are no longer affected, which means it's a very short term issue.
B, we think james is confusing cause and effect.
The familial network is not based on tit for tat, it's based on massive love from one person in the family to the other people in the family.
This means oftentimes, the mother works so hard to care for her child, not because she expects him to care for her back but because she wants to grant him the opportunities that she's never had to move to the big city and to enjoy a better life than she managed to enjoy.
If that is the case, we think it doesn't break down the familiar network, it continues it.
You continue to come home for christmas and thanksgiving, you consider to call your mother every day at the end of the day.
We think that it's a continuation of the network.
Two, he says traditional culture becomes abandoned.
A, we simply call BS on that, right?
Lots of people move to cities and maintain their original cultures.
That's why large cities are often so multicultural.
But b, and this is the crucial part, note today each individual in that town is captured in their own culture.
They have no other alternative.
In urbana areas you get to choose your culture.
So you don't adopt no culture, or you can adopt no culture and you can adopt western culture, you can also opt in to other cultures that aren't your own.
We expand the birth lottery and allow culture to be an opt in situation.
We think that's a far better situation.
Three, lastly, he says " look, this debate is about megacities and slums like marrakesh, and those places are clearly awful ".
Two responses.
A, this debate is far from limited to those areas.
Urbanization is an issue of expansion.
It is true that in poorer countries that expansion tends to focus on one specific city.
Note the cause for this is not too much urbanization, it's not enough of the city's urbanizing, because if they could spread out their urbanization across three, four, five large cities, then we'd have wonderful effects from this.
So even with this rationale of slums being bad, that stems from not enough urbanization, not too much of it.
Two, note that even if this debate were only about those slums, it's temporary.
As more people urbanize, the outer rings become inner rings, and then start to enjoy some of the benefits that cities have.
What are those benefits?
Let's talk about public goods.
We say one of the greatest things you get from urbanization is consolidation of resources.
This is analogous, for example, to the way that walmart is able to offer you produce at much cheaper rates than anywhere else.
Why?
Because walmart is so so big that they buy in bulk.
Cities are able to do the same.
They offer you public transportation in bulk.
They offer you education in bulk.
They offer you housing in bulk.
All of these things mean they're able to give you more for less.
That means a, that people are able to enjoy a higher standard of living even if they have substantially less money, and b, that the resources that they're using are fewer as a whole.
What does that mean?
Two, natural preservation.
The alternative to urbanization is spreading out farther.
That means that next to each town where you have a nice natural reservation, you overturn that natural reservation and build a town instead.
Why?
Because you need to move somewhere because you're expanding as a population, and you're no longer supporting urbanization, which means expanding of expansion of current areas of living.
That means destroying nature as it exist.
We think it is far better for humankind and for the nature, for nature itself, to expand in existing areas and maintain natural preservation as opposed to running over the entire natural resource.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.