We should ban organic food.
Now, by banning organic food we obviously don't mean banning the food itself.
If somebody grows a cucumber at home, there's nothing wrong with that and that shouldn't be bad.
Rather, the category of food called organic food is what should be banned IE the label.
So we don't mind if people keep growing the food the same way they're growing it, but they have to call it food, not organic food, and there is no there will be no such thing as a government supported label of organic food.
Let's talk about why we want to get rid of this label.
Two arguments on the side of the house.
One is scare mongering created at the expense of scientific evidence, and two, is on disincentivizing the growth of organic food due to the harm of organic food to the market as a whole.
Let's get started with scaremongering.
So one thing that is crucial to understand right off the bat, there is no scientific evidence to support organic food being any better than regular food.
In fact, there is substantial scientific evidence to point to it being worse due to it being a, less full of vitamins and such that are pumped into GMO's, and b, less protected from various forms of germs and bacteria, meaning more likelihood of getting somebody sick due to eating these organic foods.
The problem is that using psychological marketing tactics, they've managed to create a prism in which organic means and triggers a psychological notion of more natural, IE more healthy.
We think this notion is false.
We think medicine, for example, is entirely unnatural and exceptionally healthy, given the potential alternatives of illness and disease.
Crucially, we think this distinction is not rationally made, but rather sub consciously made.
So over the years they've managed to cultivate enough of a following to believe that organic essentially means healthy, that people see the word organic and don't even think about what it actually means, rather understand it as healthy.
We think what this means is that in spite of the scientific evidence, the label of organic allows sellers to dupe buyers into purchasing their product against their better judgment and without rational understanding and analysis.
So in order to protect these consumers, we think the label, and therefore this form of marketing, should be gone.
The second thing is we want to disincentivize organic foods as a whole.
Look, we recognize that they have minor advantages to some extent, in certain situation, to certain people, we think those are largely outweighed by the negative sides of organic foods.
Crucially though, we also think they are bad for the market because the cost of growth of organic food and the area in which it needs to be grown is substantially larger.
This means that if you take any given organic farm you can potentially grow about ten times more food if you weren't growing organic foods there.
However, for the individual grower, if they can mark their food as organic and make ten times more money for a tenth of the production, for them it is worth it.
However, for the market it is substantially worse since they're getting substantially less yield from the same amount of ground and farmer hours, as far as the market is concerned.
So by disincentivizing this, we're essentially creating a market in which more food is produced at a lower cost for all of the buyers, therefore thereby feeding more poor families.
For these reasons, we beg you to propose.