One thing that's crucial to understand, retirement age is not mandatory.
Retirement age is the age at which an individual can decide to retire.
Why is this important?
Because the money you get in retirement, it's not great for most people, it's not a ton of money.
Most people would prefer being able to live on more, that means, most people, given the ability to, choose to continue working unless they've saved up enough personal wealth in order to retire comfortably.
Why does that matter?
Because it means generally speaking, those retiring are those who need to.
If yaar wants a good way to calculate who it is who no longer can work, those who choose to retire are a generally pretty good calculation, that's important to keep in mind.
Two arguments here.
One, the proposition is looking at the problem entirely wrong.
Kicking out old people and replacing them with young people does not add jobs to the market, it just replaces who holds them.
Secondly, we say it also creates a massive harm to the market.
By a time and place factor an in in the economy and in child rearing.
Simply put, we think raising the retirement age, means young people get into better jobs older because their predecessors hold onto the jobs for longer.
This means they come into money later and this lowers the likelihood of them venturing out on their own, and raises the likelihood of them postponing having children.
Three points of rebuttal before that.
One, yaar says, once you retire you start getting your pension and that's too much money for the state to uphold.
Two responses.
One, at least at first, this is your money, it's the money you've paid into pension, it is not a state burden to hold in.
It is possible that you're taking it for too long, and that part stayed on the state for a while to some extent, but recognize that, mostly this is money you put into the system.
Secondly, if it is true that you've retired in order for somebody else to take your job, that means that somewhere on down the line there is somebody who until now was unemployed who has now taken your job.
Note that, until that point, that person was being paid unemployment.
If you don't retire, that person continues to be paid unemployment.
That means the money's coming out one way or another.
Secondly yaar says, look, there's optimal data configuration that we need to take into account.
He mentions population size but he doesn't really address it.
A, it is untrue that it is decreasing recently in most places, most places still have an increase.
And, b, yaar's logic says that the system was planned a hundred years ago.
Even if it has recently begun decreasing, certainly it's more than it was a hundred years ago, the logic should still stand that there's a population increase.
This means the problem is still a macro market problem of more people than there is labor.
Lastly he says, some old people get disappointed, blah blah, fine, that's the the least of our problems, let's talk looking their problem entirely wrong.
Look, the main problem that we have is that there are people, and those people don't have jobs.
This is a simple math problem.
There are more individuals who want to work than there are jobs.
Why does yaar hurt this.
One, he increases drastically the number of individuals who want to work by expanding the age range at which you work.
This means fewer jobs per person AKA higher unemployment, or rather higher youth unemployment.
Note that the job ratio doesn't shift when you increase it that.
What does this mean?
It means that the job unemployment moves down the ladder from older people to younger generations.
How does that get hurt?
Two things hurt the inability to have jobs.
One, a lack of people opening businesses.
We say people are more likely to open businesses when they've gained enough capital on their own.
That's why you normally see people opening businesses at thirty or forty when they've gained some personal capital and some job market experience.
We say that experience gets lowered when they have to wait longer in order to wait to enter the job market.
So you're harming the economy more by having people work older.
For those reasons, please oppose.