The nuclear bombs in hiroshima and nagasaki were justified.
Three reasons for their justification.
One, on procedural justification, two, on the ending of that war, and three, on the prevention of future wars.
So first let's discuss procedural justification.
It's important to note that justification of the acts during war are substantially different than justification of regular acts, because they inherently involve actions that are, in all other other circumstances, morally repugnant.
They involve murder of people, they involve destruction of places.
What then is moral during war?
Morality of war is restrictions set by nations upon other nations and themselves, and agreed upon in such a way that you can, to an extent, minimize the atrocities of war.
It is the acceptance that things that happen in war are still going to be terrible, but in order to draw some line between moral and amoral, you need to accept certain amoral things as legitimate during warfare.
Now to be clear, today, we think that attacking civilians during war has been agreed upon as an amoral act during warfare.
However crucially, the only power that morality of war has, given that it cannot be externally enforced by a courts or anything else, is the willingness of countries to opt into and accept it.
That means that its power comes via agreement.
And here is where it matters.
Because the united states followed procedural rules regarding dropping these bombs.
They double-checked with the quebec accords.
They were permitted to do so by whatever existing agreements existed back then.
Our ability to judge morally acts during war are based solely on the agreements that existed at the time of those acts.
And we think, within war, procedural justification is what matters, and they were procedurally justified.
Even if not, let's talk about harms and damages.
So first, on stopping that war.
We think the fact that japan surrendered as an immediate result to these bombs, means that it wasn't lives taken, it was simply lives taken quicker.
Because drawing out the war would have meant more deaths on both sides.
Crucially note that the united states, being responsible for the lives of people on its side, are allowed to make a calculation that a life of their citizen is worth more than one life of a foreign citizen.
So even if fewer people would have died, morally they'd be justified in preventing more deaths on some deaths on their side by more deaths on the other side.
Lastly, let's talk about prevention of wars in general.
Atomic bombs have not been used since that day.
Moreover, war between two atomically capable nations have not existed since that day.
We think the awe of the destructive ability of the atomic bomb was so great, that it has up until now prevented war for sixty years.
If that means that a few people, innocent people, had to die in order to achieve that, much like we would accept that some americans had to die of malaria in order to find a cure for malaria and save an entire continent of that disease, we accept here too that if you want to talk about justification, specifically via results, then some deaths are worth saving years without wars.
For these reasons we propose the motion.