In his last argument, the speaker from proposition suggests we should simply always have daylight savings time.
Two things about that: one, it's a functional misunderstanding of how daylight saving time works.
It's not like by implementing daylight saving time at all hours you always get more daylight.
In the summer you get more daylight, in the winter you get less daylight because the daylight are in the early hours of the morning during which people otherwise wouldn't be awake.
But crucially, the motion reads end daylight savings time.
By supporting a system of only daylight savings time, the speaker is essentially rooting for opposition in this debate.
Four more points of rebuttal and then one argument on why having waking hours and sunlight hours coinciding is so crucial.
One, he says it's harder to calculate a time zone difference with daylight savings time.
The response to this is who you kidding.
Nobody's sitting there looking at his watch and then doing minus seven to get the time, you google what the time is somewhere.
Google can probably keep up with whether or not they've implemented daylight savings time.
Two, he says daylight savings time is arbitrary.
Two responses: a, why?
We see no evidence to daylight saving time being arbitrary and the speaker offers none such evidence.
But two, even if it is, fix the arbitrariness of daylight savings time.
That's not a reason to abolish it all together.
Three, he says global business is more difficult to do when you're not sure if they're thirteen hours back or twelve hours back.
So a, recognize the impact of one additional hour out of ten, twelve, thirteen, whatever it is is quite minimal.
It also falls to the issue of being able to easily calculate it.
But b, and this leads me to my last point of rebuttal, and this is important.
Recognize that at the moment the speaker recognizes the importance of time zones he's essentially recognizing the rationale behind the necessity of daylight savings time.
The notion that being awake during waking during sunlight hours that working during sunlight hours that having your day start when the sun comes up and end when the sun goes down is more important than having everyone being able to look at their clock at at at two in the afternoon and say oh everyone's that work today all around the globe at this hour.
So why is it so important that we have waking hours and sunlight coinciding?
Three reasons: the first reason is that it increases happiness of individuals.
Sunlight raises the levels of serotonin in the brain which means that your receptors are more open to joy.
This is why you see higher levels of depression in places closer to the arctic circle where they get far fewer hours of sunlight.
By making sure that people are awake during more hours of sunlight, we avert depression to some extent and get happier people.
Secondly, energy efficiency.
This is quite simple.
You don't need energy, you don't need lights, you don't need pretty much any form of energy while you're asleep.
If that time coincides with the time that it's dark out great.
If you're asleep during light hours than a, you need some sort of energy in order to darken it to be able to sleep better and if you're awake during dark hours you need to consume energy in order to light up the area.
That's just massive amounts of waste for no particular reason.
Lastly, we say it creates crime aversion.
How so?
The number one factor in whether or not people are willing to commit a crime is the likelihood they believe of being caught for committing that crime.
Darkness creates a cover under which people are less likely to commit crimes.
Now today you have a situation where in during waking hours it is more difficult to commit crimes because there is light out, people are awake, people are around, and therefore you're more likely to get caught therefore you are less likely to commit that crime in the first place.
At the point at which you're waking hours no longer coincides specifically with hours of light, there is more of a likelihood of more people being willing to commit crime because they're awake at opportune moments for committing crimes.
For all these reasons please oppose the motion.