We're going to put forward a very simple claim.
At the point at which herbal medicine is effective, it is called medicine.
At the point at which marijuana, for example, is seen as helpful medicinally, you can get prescribed medicinal marijuana.
At the point at which the coca plant is seen to have particular effects, then the way in which it needs to be produced to gain those effects, are done, and that is called medicine.
However, it can also be shifted differently so become cocaine, and we think that's far from being medicine.
All of this boils down to those people handing out herbal medicine and medications are a: not doctors, b: misreporting regarding the benefits and efficacy of their treatments, either on purpose or because they genuinely believe they work as well as medicine, but they're wrong, and c: therefore, causing harm to patients.
So, what are our burdens in banning herbal medicine?
First, we need to show you that they're comparatively more harmful than medication.
We think we've done that.
Secondly, we need to show you that they are, to an extent, mutually exclusive with medication.
We'll do that in a moment.
And thirdly, we need to show you that people aren't making this decision on their own properly.
We'll do that last.
Why are they mutually exclusive with medication?
A few reasons.
One: money.
Herbal medications cost money, so do regular medications.
Most people are not the type of people who can afford all of the medications.
Even if some people are, we think it is wrong to say that poor people can get screwed over by herbal medication because rich people can afford both.
This is problematic because if you opt into using herbal medication and you don't have enough money for both, it means you're choosing herbal medication over regular, tested medication.
So that's one.
Two: mixing.
It is often the case that even if you do opt into taking both, that is a worse idea than taking neither because of the way the drugs interact with each other.
Now one of the main problem with herbal medication is that they're understudied.
It means that even the greatest experts don't always know how that's gonna interact with say, penicillin, or how it's going to interact with say, your medication for your heart problem, that you're taking regardless.
So we think it is problematic even when you do take both drugs.
Lastly, the third reason is hope.
When you opt into a drug, you have this feeling that this drug is going to work.
That's why you get things like the placebo effect, where people supposedly get healthy from sugar pills.
This means that your incentive to try another drug, go to another doctor, spend more money, is substantially lower because the the mere fact that you've opted into herbal medication, means you psychologically feel like you don't need to try other things.
All of this means that these drugs are often mutually exclusive with proper medication.
Why do we think this decision is being made improperly?
Few reasons.
A: we think, in general, individuals do not have medical information.
That information is something doctors take seven years to learn, about how particular chemicals react with particular bodies and different body types and different illnesses, etcetera.
Now, you'll say this information exists on the internet, it's out there.
You're right, but so does a lot of other misinformation.
Without an expert there with you to sift through the information and the misinformation, you're likely to end up with a coin toss on whether you got solid information or misinformation.
All of this means that the individuals making this decision don't actually have the proper knowledge on how to make this decision.
We think that is an instance in which we won't enable a person to make a decision for themselves.
For this reason, we beg you to propose.