Slum tourism creates more harm than good.
So to be clear, when we're talking about slum tourism we're talking about mostly third world countries, various places like casbahs and such, in which the overwhelming poverty of the area is so shocking, that it is enough to bring people in from the outside just to view this form of poverty, and how different it is.
So the first thing we need to do in order to compare the two, is talk a little bit about what's good about slum tourism.
We recognize that slum tourism means more money in the economy, in the local economy.
It means that a restaurant can open up that feeds the tourists, for example, or a taxi driver can start a taxi business, because tourists have the actual money to take taxis and go from place to place.
We think however this is minimal.
Meaning it helps a few people within these communities get some more money, but the community as a whole is not particularly helped by this.
What then is the massive harm of slum tourism.
We think the big harm of slum tourism is that it creates an economy that is based around poverty and suffering.
Here's the crucial bit.
Once an economy is created, it is substantially more difficult to destroy.
We'll talk about that in a moment.
But this means that you're essentially solidifying the situation of these people.
You're ensuring that they maintain and remain as poor as they are today, because you have powerful people whose interest it is to keep that.
What powerful people are these?
A, on a national level.
We think the biggest thing slump tourism does is not bring tourists into the city, but bring tourists into the country with the intention of, among other things, seeing these neighborhoods.
So you don't go stay in these poor neighborhoods, but rather you stay in the five star hilton in the major city, and on one of the days on your trip you take a you take a a tour of the slum that's an hour drive outside of the city.
We think this creates a massive incentive to maintain the slum tourism for on a national level, either for rich businessmen who make a lot of money on the tourism, or for the government themselves who make money on the tourism.
This means you disincentivize those businesses for from, for example, opening factories in those poor areas in which they could get cheap labor, but they make more money off keeping them poor.
The same is true for government officials, particularly in more corrupt economies, which tend to be the poorer countries, in which you create a situation where they are no longer incentivized to ensure that there is some form of growth in those neighborhoods, in the form of tax breaks for example, or government subsidies, but rather they are kept down, kept poor.
This means you block any potential for investment in those areas, either governmental or business because it is in everyone's greater economic interest to keep those people poor.
Secondly, on a local level.
If it is true that some people are making some more money because of this tourism, then those people become the relatively powerful people within those communities, who make their money based on the suffering of the other people within these communities.
That means that on a local level as well, there's an incentive for individuals to keep the surroundings poor.
What this essentially means is that any benefits you get from trickle down effects in general when you create some form of growth in an economy, is likely to be stopped here, because a trickle down would harm the economic interests of those who have some economic power in these communities.
Simplistically it seems obvious that putting some more money into these communities is good.
But when you look at it in a grand scheme, it really means that you're keeping them poor for longer periods of time.
Please oppose slum tourism and support the motion.