Tim ends his speech by saying global warming is a major thing that must be dealt with immediately.
We would note that the motion would have him defend that global warming is a threat.
We too believe global warming should be dealt with immediately.
But much like a small puppy urinating inside your house, while it ought to be dealt with, it ought not be seen as a threat because of the success you are likely to have in dealing with it.
Two arguments on this side of the house as to what is likely to happen with global warming.
One, we'll fix it.
Two, we'll hit the reset button.
Before that a few points of rebuttal mostly pertaining to how we might fix particular aspects.
So one, tim says seaside areas go under water.
Look, not to be blunt, but we're not missing space.
Given that this is happening quite slowly it seems we can predict it happening.
We can catch it in time and people living by the sea side can move inwards.
We would note that seaside areas are often the most populated just because they're pretty and inland we're not missing space at all whatsoever.
That's clearly not a big threat.
Secondly, he says there's a loss of history when that happens.
We ask why.
What exactly is it that is of historic value but cannot be carried out?
Even if you take the most massive land mine known, like the egyptian pyramids or something, still modern technology can take that apart, move it, and put it back together.
We don't know what history it is tim thinks is going to be lost.
Then he says, how are we going to grow food?
Look, scientists are about a year away from making actual meat in a laboratory.
We don't think that growing wheat indoors is going to be the problem, greenhouses already exist.
We think it's exceptionally likely that solutions already exist for this and if they don't will easily be found for production of foods disregarding weather patterns.
Lastly, he went on he goes on some sort of tangent regarding agro firms or something or other whatever it is that causes global warming.
We would know that this is irrelevant to the debate of whether or not global warming is a threat.
So first, let's talk about fix.
Two forms of fix: the good form of fix is we're going to fix actual global warming.
That means we find some sort of way to take COTwo emissions for example out of the atmosphere and return them into HTwo_o.
, return them into oxygen, whatever it is.
We would note that massive scientific advancement already exists in this field and we think it is likely to succeed.
Given that we think are likely to succeed, we wouldn't categorize global warming as a threat.
There was a time a long time ago when people used horses instead of cars and at some point the streets of london started flooding with horse feces and they were sure this is a massive threat until they figured out they can simply repurpose all these feces as fertilizer.
The point of the story being human ingenuity knows no bounds.
We think we are highly likely to find a solution for this problem as well.
Secondly, even if we don't fix the problem in the grand scale, we think it's quite easy to fix the various aspects of problematic areas that global warming causes.
So like we already talked about with food, like we already talked about with moving inwards, we think human ingenuity, at the very least, is likely to be able to find solutions for the various damages global warming will cause which we again means it's not a threat.
Lastly, what happens if all else fails?
We say it's similar to hitting the reset button.
Global warming does, in a cyclical way, cure itself.
So while there is harm to people who exist today, in a long term, a grand scheme of things, you're looking more like somebody hitting restart on the computer as opposed to the end of times, which once again, would not be considered a threat in the grand scheme of things.
For all these reasons, please oppose.