One point of necessary clarity at some point or another shimon compares assisted suicide unfavorably with euthanasia.
We're entirely unclear as to whether or not he supports euthanasia in this debate.
Kind of important, makes that a very different debate.
For now we'll assume he doesn't unless we get corrected.
Few points of rebuttal and then the main argument about autonomy over life.
One, shimon starts off by saying here's our principle.
This is like a contract, if a contract is signed while not of sound mind, that contract is null.
Shimon's right.
However in his analysis shimon didn't actually tell you that this contract is signed not of sound mind.
Rather he told you that it's negotiated.
That seems fair to us.
Crucially though, here's the important bit, you don't ban contracts.
You try and ensure that they are signed of sound mind.
We're totally for medical testing and psychological testing to ensure that the individual making the decision is of sound mind.
Once that happens, there's no reason to ban him from doing this, by shimon's own logic.
Secondly, shimon talks about manipulation by family.
Three responses: one, we say it's highly unlikely.
Even given rational reasons why they might want that family member gone, a, there are many rational reasons often why they'd want that family member to stick around but b, just psychologically it tends to take a particular type of sociopath to convince someone to kill themself for your own benefit.
Most people in the world are not like that.
B, if they are controlled for that shimon says, will say, well we can't control for that.
How do we know what they're telling their family member?
He's right, but note you can't control for that today either.
In the event of such sociopaths that they're trying to convince their loved ones to kill themselves, note these loved ones can kill themselves today and face no repercussions because, well it's hard to jail a dead man.
The question is how comfortably they'll do it.
So in shimon's world they just go out in a more uncomfortable fashion.
Thirdly, and this is important, what shimon is calling manipulation is actually legitimate factors, legitimate reasons to choose to end your own life.
Making your family miserable day in and day out is a legitimate reason to not want to live anymore.
Often you say people still have their family to live for, if at the they're at the point in their life where they're not even living for their family but against them that seems like a reasonable consideration in taking your own life.
Let's talk about autonomy.
Government's ability to use an individual's autonomy in order to socially construct a more convenient world for them ought be very limited.
It should be even more limited when it comes to the individual's most crucial bit of autonomy, the existence of their life in the first place.
We would note that a person's life is the essence of every other right that they have, every other externality of those rights.
This means that the most critical issue to any given person, to any given personality, to any given type, is the their life itself.
The actual living.
To limit an individual on whether they can live is already seen as the worst possible form of infringements on rights.
Namely murder.
We don't think it should be any different for the infringement on whether they must live, because note it is two sides of the same coin.
If the life belongs to me and it is in my right to keep it at all costs it should also be in my right to oppose of it to oppose it at all costs.
Shimon says well this person is susceptible, perhaps, but a, susceptibility doesn't mean that they no longer get to make decisions and b, note that they're susceptible from now until forever.
That means susceptibility is their new life and therefore they should have autonomy over that new life.
For these reasons please let people end their suffering.