In my speech today, I'm going to explain who and how homeopathic treatments help, and why it's important that we maintain their existence.
Before that, three points of extraneous rebuttal: one, daniel talk to us about harms.
A, he says, sometimes the treatments themselves are actively harmful.
We're fine with banning those, if a treatment shows to have negative effects, no problem, ban those.
B, he says, it creates an absence of other treatments, and that's harmful.
Three responses: one, why does it create an absence?
He never explains.
We think this is supplementary medicine, it supplements western medicine, and goes together with it.
B, often the reason turn, people turn homeopathy is because western medicine has nothing to offer them, other than waiting for death.
Generally speaking, the reason, you would go to a homeopathic doctor, is because you have no other option.
When that's the case, it's clearly not coming at the expense of any other treatment.
Lastly, three, we're happy to say that a doctor should sign off on knowing that you're going to a homeopathic treatment, which means: a, you have to see a doctor, and b, the doctor can make sure that the medicines that he's giving you, versus the homeopathic doctor is giving you, aren't interacting negatively.
That's fine.
That is far from banning homeopathic treatments.
Note, at the point at which, there is no active harm from homeopathic treatments, daniel's case falls, because he himself admits he needs active harm in order to ban this.
Two, he says, they don't help beyond the placebo effect.
True, we'll explain why a placebo effect is quite helpful.
Three he says, it's cheaper, and so the decision is not a real decision to take these drugs.
Two responses: one, economic factoring is part of almost every real decision, it does not mean that the decision is not a free decision, it means that's one that factors in economic reality.
Two, here's another possible solve, subsidized medicines, like almost every western country does.
If homeopathy is managing to undercut your medicines, probably the problem is that you're charging too much for your medicines.
Let's talk about why, and how homeopathic treatments work.
Daniel says, and I quote: " believing something works, does not mean it's actually going to work " when is that not the case?
With the placebo effect.
Specifically, homeopathic treatments have such a long history of belief that, their ability to produce a placebo effect is greater than that of almost any other medicine.
Why is this important?
Because the people who turn to homeopathic treatment are generally those who have been failed by modern medicine.
Modern medicine is great, it's wonderful, it's amazing, but it doesn't have a cure for everything.
People suffering from pancreatic cancer know that, their chances are survival are almost none.
Those who have already undergone chemotherapy and tried surgery, know for a fact that they're going to die.
At that point, two things are being robbed from them: one, their life itself, horrible.
But two, any semblance of feeling of control towards the end of their lives, because not only do they know they're dying, they know there's nothing that they can do about it.
Homeopathic treatments can, at least, bring that back.
By truly opting into believing that this is going to help you, you a, regain that feeling of control, of thinking maybe there's something I can do for myself, maybe there's a way that I can advance my own future, and set my own fate.
B, you give yourself a chance of feeling better.
We're not going to go as far as saying that, placebo effects can cure cancer, probably not.
But, it can make those last days substantially better in the way you feel.
It can cure some of the feelings, the exhaustion, the pain that you get from cancer, merely through the belief that it's going to work.
And if that's the case, and the comparative for that is sitting at home, knowing you're dying, and feeling in pain about it, we say homeopathy is absolutely a treatment plan that's worth pursuing.
For these reasons, we oppose the motion.