Two things we're gonna discuss in this debate.
One, why water fluoridation is unnecessary, and two, how water fluoridation is harmful by perpetuating similar narratives to those of vaccinations.
Now to be clear: we do not oppose vaccinations.
We think vaccinations are extremely important because of the positives they create.
We simply don't think water fluoridation has similar positives.
We think though that they've created a dangerous narrative that water fluoridation is perpetuating, and end of the day means that things like water fluoridation means fewer people are also getting vaccinated.
We'll get to that.
Two points of rebuttal before we start.
One, notice the comparative in tim's speech is that there is no harm.
As soon as there is a harm, he himself admits that the positive is a, unknown and b, probably minimal.
So it means that it's likely to fall on our side of the house.
But, we're not entirely sure why he claims there's no harm.
I mean at the very least he should have compared against a cost of three three hundred over three hundred million dollars per year and it seems strange to us that he decided not to do that.
Secondly he says: " look, this is the job of the government. "
This brings us into the into the arguments.
We're not entirely sure what claiming this is the job of the government does in a debate that's talking about whether or not this brings more harm, good than harm or not.
Crucially, however, notice that there's an intervention of government in bodily autonomy that is seen as disruptive even when it isn't.
Let's get to that in the argument.
First, why is this unnecessary?
Topical treatments exist and are of widespread use in all of the countries that create fluoridation.
So what does this mean?
A, it means that more often than not people drink bottled water which they can choose whether or not they want fluoridated bottled water and b, most importantly, people brush their teeth every day, they go to the dentist everyday, they drink milk every day whether in their coffee or in their cereal or just as a cup of milk.
All of this means that in the western world where fluoridation is prevalent people are getting fluoridation for their teeth anyway.
That means likely water fluoridation is over fluoridating.
We agree that doesn't have any major negative impacts in and of itself but it also means that it doesn't have any particular gains.
Why is this so harmful?
Particularly a government intervention in bodily autonomy is seen as threatening to people.
This is why for example when the government hands out free healthcare education free healthcare, most people think of that as nice.
When the government hands out free condoms, for example, other than religious opposition to condoms, most people think of it as reasonable.
However, at the point at which the government forces you into bodily changes, most people do not appreciate it.
What does that mean?
It means nobody would think it was okay if the government forced you into an abortion for example.
Right?
This would continue to be true even if tim got up here and analyzed why there's a hundred percent sure security that this abortion is good for this person.
Because people tend to believe that it is their right to do as they please with their body.
This is why you have such a large anti vax community saying that vaccinations are harmful for you.
Because at the moment at which the government says: " we will force an external thing into your body ", you get conspiracy theorists telling you that it's harmful.
Now this already exists with fluoridation.
By perpetuating this notion you create a situation in which more people are opposed to the government as a whole and fearful of it.
More people are not vaccinating their children because they think the government is trying to poison them and more people disrespect science and the scientific process.
All of this creates far more harm than the minimal two people who otherwise would not have brushed their teeth and therefore gotten fluoride.
Please oppose the motion.