Personality tests are the psychological equivalent of alternative medicine.
They're wrong as often as they are right, and yet they convince people to opt into them and to buy into them, therefore harming people's lives.
Let's talk about all of those stages but before that, a bit about mechanism.
So, to be clear, questionnaires are obviously still allowed.
It is the grading system of the tests that we think turns them into personality tests.
So those who say at the end, your personality is type one, type two, that means you will likely be x, y and z, that part is problematic, that part we're getting rid of, you're not going to be allowed to ascertain that, to ask that, to share that, anything like that.
So step one: why are personality tests wrong as often as they are right?
Few reasons.
So personality tests purport to predict an individual's reaction to a wide array of cases.
However, in order to be short, concise tests, they have to do so based on individual cases, specifically, questions pertaining to individual cases.
Those can be shifted through many things.
For example, a: if that particular case chosen is a case an individual has already experienced, then their report on how they might react to that varies differently, b, sorry wildly.
B: an individual, who hasn't experienced it, often predicts that he'd act in the way that he'd want to act.
That is not the same as acting in the way that you would actually act under stressful or certain situations.
C: they're often taking this test during job interviews or other stressful situations, which means their mental state is different than it would have been in the real state of showing their personality.
D: all of this is subjective.
So, for example, in those various tests questions that try and ascertain if an individual is honest, a dishonest person would simply be dishonest in answering the questions and answer them the way he thinks an honest person would, and is therefore likely to get to to be able to game the system many times.
All of this comes together to say that it's unlikely that these tests are any more accurate than a flip coin.
What's the problem then?
They'll say, " look, people know this.
It's a measure when you don't have any other sort of measure. "
Two reasons that this creates a problem.
Firstly, we think the size of the industry means they have political power and psychological backing due to the origins of the industry.
That means they're able to pressure a lot of different groups into using the test in the first place.
This means they get to lobby the american government to use this test in as many of its branches as possible.
This means they get to lobby businesses and industries to use this test, and they have a pretty easy way of doing so, right?
Nobody's getting up and saying these tests aren't working.
So because of how subjective it is, it's impossible to disprove, and their claim is quite powerful: we get to show you in thirty seconds who this person is.
So they have undue power a a broken market, if you will, in adopting the test in the first place.
The second reason is ignoring the result is inhuman.
Humans have this tendency to opt into values and numbers over subjective experiences.
This means if I speak with somebody and feel that they're intelligent, if I hear that they got a four hundred on the SATs, I'm going to discount the conversation where I heard they were intelligent, where I felt they were intelligent, because the numerical value is more cognitively powerful.
This means it's more difficult to ignore the results or to take them with a grain of salt once they come with that label at the end.
For all these reasons, we think they end up doing far more harm than good.
We beg you to support the motion.