A legal age of consent was never meant as a punishment, it was meant to protect underage children from being taken advantage of.
Note, that the legitimacy in such a law, an overly protectionist law, requires that that protection be overwhelmingly necessary.
A particularly high bar is set, when there is a blanket policy, telling all people of a certain age, that they must refrain from an activity, in order to protect some of those people, who may not be able to make that decision over themselves.
Our mechanism in this debate is somewhat nonspecific, in that we don't think we have the exact details in order to make a specific age.
Roughly we think, it should be lowered from eighteen to somewhere between fourteen and sixteen, presumably varying to some extent between cultures.
Our assumption is as follows: eighteen was the correct age for consent.
The correct age is based on a, a person's body being ready for sex, meaning having gone through puberty, and b, ability to understandingly consent, meaning, there's some form of cognitive grasp, of what it is that an individual is consenting to, and what they're entering into, the ability to give that proper consent we think, that in both those realms, changes have overcome society in such a way, that the ability to give that consent is now reached at a younger age.
Let's talk about those two things.
So firstly, regarding bodily preparedness.
People in general, and girls specifically, are maturing at a younger age nowadays.
The reasons for this are an overuse of products and food, which contain hormones, and those hormones in turn make puberty come earlier.
So, over the past few decades, girls have been getting their periods earlier and earlier, growing breasts earlier and earlier, men's testicles have been dropping earlier and earlier.
So on that end we think, as far as physically becoming adults, people are doing so at a much younger age nowadays.
Secondly, let's talk about societal changes, we think there are two such changes: one, as society is becoming more sex positive, and open toward sex in general.
This means, that they're discussing sex more, this means that they're displaying sex more, this means that it's no longer shunned or taboo.
What this means, is that the issues of sex are more accessible to younger audiences in general.
The second thing, is that specifically they're being made accessible, actively, for younger and younger people.
Younger and younger, TV shows are using sex to captivate younger audiences, younger people are being used as sexual icons, I would note justin bieber being portrayed as a sexual icon, beginning at the age of thirteen for example.
All of this means, that parents, and an education system, are all equipped and dealing with the issues of sexuality earlier, which enables the necessary cognitive tools and social framework, for a younger individual to opt in to sex.
So, because we no longer have reasonable cause to prevent them from acting based on their urges, we beg you to propose.