Two things we're gona talk about in this debate.
One, how slump tourism helps the local economy, and two, on how it helps attract investments and donation thereby helping the local economy on a more macro level.
Three points of refutation before that.
One, note that in daniel's speech, he merely asserts that this doesn't actually help.
He gives lots of reasons why it might not help, but he never shows you that it doesn't help.
We will show you in our speech that it, in fact, does.
Two, he says people profit off of struggle of other people and that's messed up.
Note, two things.
One, we don't understand why that's messed up.
We think people selling pharmaceuticals profit over the struggle of other people, however, during the course of that they also benefit those people and that's very far from messed up.
In fact it's one of the most important industries that exist today.
The same is true of people selling food to anyone who is hungry.
We think those people do something rather important.
The same is true here, at the point at which we show you that this is actually beneficial to the to the local economies of those people.
Lastly, he says if you think you're you're doing good, then, you won't end up doing more good.
So, this is mutually exclusive with other versions of charity donations, etcetera.
Two things about that.
One, it's patently false.
Most people enter charity not by giving all of their life to charity, but rather but rather by doing one good deed, giving to charity once, etcetera.
Then, they like the way it makes them feel, they like the way their donation has helped, they like the results that they end up getting, and they end up becoming more emotionally invested.
It's more, foot in the door psychology.
As you become more invested in it, you have a sunk cost in an issue, and therefore you're more likely to continue investing in it.
So we think it's patently false that this is mutually exclusive.
But secondly and crucially, note, this is tourism, not charity.
Which means, even if it were true that doing one small good deed made you satiated with good deeds, these people do not get the feeling of doing one small good deed because as far as they're concerned, they're on vacation taking a tour.
All they see is that while they're on vacation touring and enjoying their lives, all of these people are suffering.
We'll talk about that more in the second point.
First, let's talk about local economy.
Look, it's very simple.
In order to have an economy work, a local economy, you need people with buying power within that economy.
That means that if you wanna drive a cab you need people who can afford to take a cab.
It means if you want to open a restaurant you need people who can afford to eat at a restaurant.
If you wanna open a supermarket, you need people who can afford to buy at a supermarket.
All of these things, are problems, endemic problems with self sustained communities of poverty, because, they can't afford the nicer things, therefore they can't open the nice their businesses, therefore they can't continuously can't afford the nicer things.
The solvency for this problem comes specifically from slum tourism.
Because those are the people who go in and eat at the nice restaurant for lunch everyday, those are the people who go in and take cabs from place to place, those are the people who go in and buy the hand crocheted tee shirts made by the elderly women of the community, just to remember their experience in their community.
All of this means, they insert, inject a huge cash flow that wouldn't have otherwise existed into the local economy, in turn, by the way, allowing more buying power to the individuals within the economy to continue purchasing inside their environment.
All of this means it is a massive economic boost.
Let's talk about attracting investments and donations.
Because we think what ends up happening is, not many, but some of those people get a spark, get an idea.
Either an emotional spark saying, wow these people are suffering while I'm out here on vacation and I should help, and then they end up giving to charity and helping those people, or a business spark, saying, here's an economy that is still in its roots, and I can open up something here and make it big.
By being exposed to the societies, you make it more likely that large influxes of cash get injected into the economies by entrepreneurs who, now with exposure, know of a way in which they can profit within these societies.
All of this means, that in the macro level you are also helping the economy of these people.
We beg to oppose the motion.