In order to consider, whether nationalism does more harm than good, you must consider the counterfactual: what would have been here had we not had nationalism?
We think that, this debate is inherently comparative, in that we think, human beings have an inherent need and desire to group around things that unite them and join them together.
This is why in the entire history of mankind, man has always grouped together over certain ideologies, aspects, or whatever it is.
Historically, it has taken the form of religion, of monarchism, and of nationalism.
Of these alternatives, we think nationalism is by far the best, and we think these alternatives are, in fact, the other options for how life may be.
Let's get into rebuttal first.
So first, tim says nationalism is exclusionary to other groups, he is correct about that, and then he takes it from that, and says that's why there's xenophobia, that is what he is incorrect about.
Xenophobia existed far before nationalism.
Religions fought amongst themselves for millennia, so did monarchies who went to war over crown crown and queen, for example.
We don't think nationalism caused that.
In fact, we think since the rise of nationalism, national wars have gone drastically down.
Secondly, he says: minority groups within society feel exclusion, excluded.
Again, let's look comparatively.
We think a jew, in a christian society, is inherently excluded from that society.
We think, an israeli in a american society, can take upon himself aspects of american nationalism, without giving up his religious identity, and thereby allow him to participate in society, more than other groupings would.
Lastly, he says: it allows for corrupt leaders.
We accept this, it's true.
We think it's less so than the alternatives, that are based on a deity.
Let's take a look into that.
Why is nationalism better?
Two reasons: one, based on leaders, second, based on geographic inclusion.
First, let's talk about leaders.
We think what makes nationalism unique, is that it puts the people in the middle.
The comparative of nationalism is various forms of identity, that all include one central leader, be it god, be it chief rabbi, be it a king or a queen.
We think that is particularly dangerous, because it allows for that corrupt power, in a significantly more powerful way, than any form of identity based on the nation as a whole.
At the point, at which even the leader can be seen to be harming the nation, we think, that nationalism allows groups to protect themselves from corrupt leaders.
It is true, that in instances, it also allows them to fall to corrupt leaders, but historically, we think you have far more corrupt leaders under alternative ways of grouping society.
So, we think nationalism is better based on the leaders.
Let's talk about geographic inclusion.
At the point, at which you have two " otherize " some group, because in order to unite yourself with some people, it inherently necessitates creating some form of enemy, and this has been true all throughout history.
We think, the best way of doing that, is uniting yourself around the group, based on where you are geographically located.
We think that's better, because it's much more difficult to start wars with people who are far away from you.
We think that's better, because it's much more difficult to have local tensions, if all of your enemies are far away from you.
We think it's better, because all of the reasons, for which humans tend to strive to be in groups, mean that they gain more from these groups, when they are surrounded by these groups.
So, nationalism is the best form of grouping together, and grouping together is inherent to human nature.
For these reasons, we think nationalism has done far more good than harm.