Alcohol is one of the most dangerous drugs known to man.
It is responsible for more deaths than any other drug in the world and yet it's still legal.
On this side of the house we look to ban it.
What does that ban look like?
An overall ban on any alcoholic product, that means anything from wine coolers to vodka is no longer allowed, alcohol continues to be created as a drug and that drug can be prescribed by doctors, by psychologists, etcetera, in particular doses that which relate to the alcoholic level within those drinks.
So a doctor can prescribe a mother with three children one glass of wine at the end of the day, that's fine, a doctor can prescribe a little bit of whiskey on weekends, a doctor can prescribe some ahmm some alcohol in controlled quantities.
Furthermore, controlled releases will be available for people who need alcohol for religious purposes.
Obviously those will also be within controlled quantities.
We think all of this control over quantities means people are less likely to trade in the alcohol in any form of black market, we also think that the availability of some alcohol means that a black market is less likely to come up and when it does come up it is substantially less likely to be particularly strong like it was in the days of the prohibition.
Now, why do we seek to ban alcohol?
First, when do we ban substances that are dangerous to the individual?
We would note two major criteria: one, when this substance disenables the rationality of the individual such that continuous consumption can no longer be seen as a rational choice, and that the substance prioritizes continuous consumption under that state.
Two, when the harm to the surrounding environment is big enough.
So let's go over them one at a time.
Note what happens with heroin for example.
We say heroin is bad because obviously it's bad for the individual, but generally the individual can make choices that are bad for them, but then when you take heroin that first time you're no longer rational in consuming it that second time.
So you made the choice once but after that you don't really make a rational choice anymore because the opioid has taken over your brain and hijacked it.
We say the same thing happens with alcohol to a more time controlled extent.
Now the proposition would argue there's nothing wrong with alcohol within the opposition would argue there's nothing wrong with alcohol within moderation.
Here's the problem: that first shot makes you hazy enough to make that second shot and that third shot seem more reasonable and more plausible.
So for every drink that you take the next decision regarding whether or not what you've had is already moderation, whether or not you should drink one more, is clouded with lack of rationality.
Crucially, the people using alcohol in the first place are likely to be those people who are less able to control their more basic instincts which is why they turn to drinking in the first place.
Now we recognize that today in society almost everyone drinks some.
We think that's a cultural thing that is likely to go away because alcohol is at the end of the day a drug.
Lastly, we think it's harmful to everyone around you.
Alcohol and alcoholism rip families apart, they create unbearable situations for people living in areas where alcohol is sold, they push teens to violence, even when alcohol is barred for teens.
We think in the end of the day, on a social level, alcohol just does way more harm than good.
So for both these reasons we beg to propose.