Immigration to the united states does more good than harm.
We're going to talk about two major goods that immigration to the united states does, and then we're going to talk about the comparative harm, where is the harm in immigration, specifically immigration to the united states, and why we don't think it's big or even exists, honestly.
So first, let's talk about the types of immigration the united states see.
One thing we won't be talking about is refugees.
We think refugees are, to an extent, not even immigrants.
They're not really part of this debate, they're people who you have to give refuge to because they're being hunted for their lives.
If we were to discuss it, we think the moral good of taking them can overcome any practical harm, even if those do exist, which we don't really think they exist anyway, the debate's not really about refugees.
So the people come to the united states tend to streamline into two major categories.
The first are those who have it so bad wherever it is they they are that they know that whatever situation they land in in the united states, they're going to be better off, and they're willing to work hard to get there.
So these are often migrants from east asia for example, migrants from certain countries in africa, etcetera.
The second type of immigration the united states have is particularly intelligent or talented people who think that given their skills, they are likely to succeed anywhere they go, and that success within the united states is the greatest and highest form of success that you can get more money basically, better life.
So regarding the first group, we think they end up taking all those jobs that your average american doesn't want to do.
Now they'll say they replace the poorest americans.
That's not really true.
Note that what generally happens is those americans who maintain who who become unemployed are those working in factories that get shut down because jobs get moved overseas, those working in farming that gets becomes unnecessary because of importations.
It is rarely if ever true that immigration takes over jobs of americans who are interested in those same jobs.
Generally, they move to bigger cities etcetera, take over the lower paying jobs.
We think that's both good for the economy in general, to have people working in those jobs, and for the immigrants themselves who, crucially, are now part of america and should therefore enter the calculus of what is good for the united states.
Secondly, that other group of academics and skillful workers.
We think the fact that america is a beacon of light to an extent that attracts towards it the best of the best can be nothing but great for the united states.
Most of their eh some or most of their noble prize laureates are former immigrants, are from families of immigrants.
The same is true for the people running some of the biggest corporations and companies in silicon valley, even some of the politicians who are leading the country are the children of immigrants and we think that's exceptionally good for the united states.
Lastly, what is the comparative?
They'll tell us there's hate, they'll tell us there's crime.
We think none of that stems from immigration.
The level of crime within immigrants is in fact lower than the level of crime within natural born americans, certainly first generation immigrants.
We think the only thing that exists is a perpetuation of hatred towards those immigrants, which creates problems.
Note those problems are disconnected from the immigrants themselves in that you can continue the immigration and simply speak highly of the immigrants love like embrace the immigrants, and those problems go away.
So there are intrinsic goods that are inherent to immigrants, there are no intrinsic bads inherent to immigrants.
For these reasons, we think the good overcomes the harm.