Astrology brings more harm than good.
Right off the bat, the first and most important thing you need to recognize about astrology is that it is a hoax.
It is a lie.
It is perpetrated by people who at this point are probably aware of the fact that they're lying.
What happens is they feed false information to people, and those people base decisions on that information.
So we're going to talk about two things.
One, on why false information breeds negative decisions, and two, on the specific type of false information likely to come via astrology	, and why that specifically can breed negative decision making within an individual's life.
Before that, a couple of things probably worth noting.
This debate is largely about those people who believe in astrology.
It doesn't concern the people who don't read it, or flip past it when going through the newspaper, or read it for jokes and laughs but don't actually care about it, because both their harm and their benefit are quite minimal.
Specifically this debate concerns the important people in this debate are those who care about astrology and end up making it significant in their lives.
So first, let's talk about how this creates negative decision making in general.
The rationale of human interaction and human actions are that human beings are rational beings, and therefore each individual can make decisions regarding their own lives, because they are, to the best of their ability, aware of their own circumstances and therefore best capable of making the right decision that would benefit their lives.
We think astrology messes with that.
Imagine if you will if you went to the doctor and that doctor gave you the wrong prognosis.
He told you you had, for example, cancer, when in fact you have a common cold.
Based on that information, if you were to believe it, you would go and you would get chemotherapy which is quite harmful for a person.
We think the basis for making correct decisions in your life is basing it on accurate information.
Now, there's a question to be asked about information the accuracy of which we cannot verify.
However, astrology isn't like that.
Astrology is plain wrong and it's crucially wrong in a way that represents itself as universally correct.
Meaning that it presents itself as absolutely right, when in fact it is, at best, placebo as in a shot in the dark.
So we think that harms people's ability to make proper decisions and is a massive harm.
Specifically how do we think it works.
We think astrology has the incentive of creating net good outcomes for the people who read it.
Meaning they will more often than not, and in fact almost always, say you will do well this week, you will find love this week, you will have a business opportunity this week, etcetera.
We think that is problematic.
Now they'll say on the other side it makes people happy.
We'll say sure, it makes people happy the same way buying a lottery ticket makes people happy.
In the moment they're excited, however ten years down the line they're poor and unable to afford basic things that they would need.
Why does it do that, what is the problem with this?
It makes people expect things to happen for them, and to such a magnitude that they are less likely to work towards them themselves.
If I am sure that I'm going to find love this week, that love is going to knock at my door for example, then I'm less likely to go out and look for love, because I'm waiting for love to come and find me.
The same is true with a business opportunity.
If the horoscope says a business opportunity will present itself, I'm less likely to go out and try and find it.
So we say on a very specific level astrology harms your incentives to advance yourself.
For these reasons we think it does substantially more harm than good.