We think the right of self defense is absolute.
What does that mean?
It means a, an individual always has the right to self defense.
One never loses that right.
B, that right is all encompassing.
There are no limitations over that right.
What are the things that come out of this?
One, we think this would mean that, for example, no kind of self defense would be deemed non proportionate.
So if you were attacked in a bar, you wouldn't need to show that the attacker would have been able to kill you.
You are allowed to shoot the attacker.
B, it means individuals are likely to be allowed to carry weapons for self defense, even if that means that some people will end up carrying them for other purposes like like happens in the united states today.
Why is the right to self defense inalienable?
Recognize that rights come from an agreement made before time, so to speak, between individuals and other individuals and between individuals and the over arching body called a state.
That agreement says that there are certain failures of rationality and of logic when each individual fights for themself and there is no cooperation, so that they can all be better off if they were to cooperate in certain ways.
But cooperation in certain ways, especially in the way of a state, requires that they give up some of their rights.
They agree then to give up some of those rights, some of those some of those liberties, in order to ensure other rights that are more basic to them.
The most basic right has always been the right to life.
Meaning you give up a lot of your rights towards the state and the state guarantees you a police force and a military, even in the most minimalist state that exists.
This comes to show that the right to life is the preamble to the entire state situation that creates limitations on what you are and are not allowed to do.
How does this come back to self defense?
Self defense is a unique situation in which you are acting in a world in which this social contract has already been broken.
If your life is in danger, it means the citizen endangering it, or the individual endangering it, has already dropped out of the social contract.
It also means that the state has already broken their side of that contract because they have been unable to protect you in the way they said they would if you were to give up your rights.
A broken contract gets broken on both sides.
If I am told that I'm getting a working product and in exchange I owe x amount of money and I get a broken product, I have no obligation to pay x amount of money.
The same goes with self defense.
At the point at which an action would be deemed self defense this social contract was inherently broken by the other actors.
At that point no limitations can exist on that individual towards those other actors.
Therefore, the right of self defense is absolute and can never be alienated.