Athletic scholarships are ways for large organizations to make enormous amount of money on the back of underprivileged people, while taking advantage of those people and giving them almost nothing in return.
We are happy to oppose athletic scholarships.
One important thing to understand.
There is a counterfactual to athletic scholarships, which is not just nothing else.
There is an incentive for sporting conglomerates to have young leagues in which people can advance and become better at the sport.
In almost every country that is not the united states, these teams and these leagues, the basketball league for example, fund triple-a leagues and double-a leagues and camps where people can practice for years and become better and hone their abilities, in order to funnel the best of the best into the major leagues.
This doesn't exist in america because it's replaced, or exist to a much smaller amount, because it's replaced by college athletics.
We think at the point at which athletic scholarships are no longer a thing, you get these leagues as a replacement to them.
And that we think is the counterfactual to the debate.
Let's talk about the harm this creates to the athletes.
So the first harm we say, is that these athletes are essentially unpaid, non-unionized labor.
They have to work unbelievably hard in order to get better at their sport.
They work hours a day in training.
Simultaneously, in order to maintain their scholarship, they have to work just enough to maintain a passing GPA as well.
So they have additional work on top of this.
Now, they'll say on the other side look, they're they're getting paid, they're getting the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars a year or whatever it is that an that a scholarship is worth.
Note that this money goes towards a degree which they are unlikely to ever use.
Meaning sure, they're getting paid in the form of a good that they receive, but it is a a it is a good that they're unlikely to ever use.
Why?
A, most of the athletes don't ever end up finishing and getting that degree, because they're either not good enough to maintain an average and therefore get kicked out, or get drafted before they ever finish the degree into the major leagues.
Or c, simply drop out when they realize they're never going to be drafted into the major leagues at the point where they're kicked out of the athletic sporting team.
Secondly, even those who get their degrees, so a, some of them still focus on sports at which point the degree is unnecessary to them, but b, because they were so focused on their athletic section of their academic education throughout the entire time, their grades are such that they're unlikely to get a job based on that degree, because comparatively they've done less well than other people in this degree.
So we think the payment that they get is essentially a non-beneficial payment to them, which means they're basically working for free.
Secondly, let's talk about the harm to future potential of these athletes.
So, we already started talking about this, but let's get more concrete.
If as an athlete I am forced to also focus on my academics, it harms my ability to hone my skills as an athlete.
If however, for those few people who aren't actually there for the athletics, but are there because it's their only way into college and they want to be a scholar, we say these people's ability to become scholars is massively harmed by the need to focus on sports.
Now, they'll say this is the only way they're getting into college.
We say that's not true.
If you take away the ability for colleges to meet their affirmative action quotas for example, based on athletic scholarships, you suddenly realize that they actually have to let these people in for other reasons, without forcing them to play sports in order to upkeep their scholarship.
So for all these reasons, we say oppose athletic scholarships.