Two points in support of alternative medicine.
One, on why we have reason to believe that alternative medicine, despite not passing scientific test, is none the less effective.
Two, on why we have reason to believe that even if it isn't effective, it's still helpful to the people who take it.
Two point of clarity and then two points of refutation.
One, on what we believe.
They talk about harmful alternative medicine.
We don't have to support every form of alternative medicine.
As far as we're concerned, we support alternative medicine that is as helpful as a sugar pill, placebo pill, and not any form of alternative medicine that does active harm to people making them worse.
We support regulation on alternative medicine, so for example if I want to treat you with alternative medicine I need to see a note from your doctor that says he's aware of the fact that you're coming to be treated here, and he's aware of whatever treatments it is that you're taking so that it interacts okay with medicine we're fine with all those things, we simply don't think you should ban it entirely in every version of it.
Secondly, you need to recognize who the types of people who use alternative medicine are.
Almost nobody believes that alternative medicine is better than regular medicine.
In fact, it seen as supplementary.
Generally, when people turn to alternative medicine, it's almost always because they've been failed by regular medicine.
This means that it's people who are suffering all of the time and don't have another way to improve their lives.
That's crucial to understand the types of damages versus benefits that you can accrue from alternative medicine.
Two points of refutation.
One, they say " we'll ban what harmful ".
Note we don't need to discuss what harmful, we need to discuss what is unhelpful.
Those are two different distinctions.
The government does not have the right to ban you from studying philosophy simply because it's unhelpful to you.
Two, he says " the research costs money, and that's a waste ".
This is literally a ridiculous argument.
Why?
Because it's not categorized as alternative medicine until the point where it's researched and disproven.
It is it is experimental medicine as is any drug until the point where it go through clinical study.
So you absolutely can't save on that money.
Otherwise, they're literally just banning the discovery of new, potentially life saving treatments.
First argument.
Why do we have reason to believe it works even when it's not proven.
The cost of things like acupuncture are marginal.
What does that mean?
That means that if anyone ever proves that acupuncture is as helpful as ibuprofen, that is a massive financial harm to big pharma companies.
What does that mean?
That means that enormous lobbying power goes into making sure that alternative forms of medicine, IE medicine that is not based in specifically chemicals going into your body, and note that this often includes things like marijuana for example, which is not a chemical but something that is easily found in nature and therefore not patentable, that they fail these tests.
Now, sure, you'll say it's hard to rig these tests.
We say that may be true, but it's certainly possible.
It is possible enough for us to have plausible reason to believe that some of these forms of alternative medicine are actually helpful, but nobody has the financial interest to to work them out and prove them because it costs so much money to do so and because you can't make a profit off of proving them because you can't patent these things, and you do have massive financial interest in shutting down any study that exists on it.
That means it's less likely to go through trials and less likely to be proven as effective.
The second thing we want to discuss is that it helps even if it doesn't help.
What does that mean?
Just the joy or the placebo effect of believing you're going to get better and getting better based on that is better than nothing.
Given the people who often turn to alternative medicine are people who before alternative medicine have a zero chance of success with regular medicine, we think that giving them hope is better, both because they could have the placebo effect an, and because even if it doesn't, it at the very least least adds joy and hope to their lives during the ends of their lives.
For these reasons, we beg you to support alternative medicine.
Oppose the motion.