We should ban extreme sports.
For the purpose of this debate, as far as we're concerned, extreme sports or any sport with a particularly high risk to the individual taking part in the sport.
So, rock climbing potentially is an extreme sport, skydiving potentially is an extreme sport, free falling is definitely an extreme sport, etcetera.
Two arguments we're going to give you.
One: when we bar people from harming themselves and why extreme sports falls under that criteria, and two: the harm to others in participation in extreme sports and why that alone is enough to bar it.
Let's start talking about one.
We think, in general, we have a consensus that people can make decisions for themselves, even harmful decisions to themselves.
Crucially, we think this because people have the ability to rationally assess the decision and therefore determine whether for them, individually, the risk of life versus death or joy versus death, in this case, is a risk they're willing to take, and we accept there exists some form of tradeoff here.
The crucial question we need to ask ourselves is: is this being assessed in a rational means?
At the point at which the individual making the choice no longer has the capacity to make this choice rationally, this choice is often taken away from them.
Note, for example, that we'd be quite surprised if opposition said, " sure, we support people under the age of eighteen participating in these sports as well.
We're fine with ten-year-old kids doing this. "
Because these people do not have the rational capacity to make these decisions, crucially, at the point where there is no rational capacity to make the decision, governments always need to err on the side of caution, which is protectionism of the life as opposed to the potential joy of these individuals, a: because life is absolute and can be determined versus joy which is comparative and not absolute, and b: because life is what the government is entrusted with as opposed to happiness, thrill, joy, whatever you want to call it.
Why is the individual not rational in these cases?
We say what makes extreme sports unique is the dopamine danger-induced dopamine that gets in essentially injected into the individual who takes part of it.
Note that this is essentially the same as taking a drug, except that drug comes from within you.
It is crucially something that will happen one hundred percent of the time, a massive dopamine rush to the brain every time you jump, every time you fall, including those times you end up getting injured doing these things.
Why does this matter?
First, you need to combine that with a mentality people have of " it won't happen to me ".
Now this clouds judgment, but doesn't in and of itself make people irrational.
But when you take the mentality of " this will never happen to me ", a version of the danger itself minimizing the potential risk and the massive rush of dopamine, we say that is enough clout to say that the individual is not acting rationally.
Why do we say this?
Because we think it is comparative to taking drugs.
We often don't allow people to take heroin because we know that it clouds their rationality and doesn't enable to make a rational choice, much in the same way the dopamine injections are something you get addicted to, and that addiction doesn't allow for future rational choices.
Secondly, why do we think there's a harm to others?
Imagine if heroin junkies were seen as role models.
You would bar them from using her heroin, not because of harm to themselves or not just because of harm to themselves, but because other people are shooting up only because of these people.
We think that's the problem that extreme sporters have.
In addition to risking themselves, they also inherently get other people to risk themselves as well.
Why are they seen as role models?
A, because dopamine-induced joy means they always seem to be having fun, enjoying their lives.
That is something that attracts people, particularly younger audiences.
B, their physique is such that it is to be aspired to because that is necessary in order to participate in most extreme sports.
This also makes them seem like role models.
C, they are generally younger people which makes them seem like something most people want to aspire to.
So not only are they risking themselves, they're also substantially raising the potential to make other people risk themselves irrationally.
For all these reasons, please propose the motion.