There are three major things we think we get from personality tests within the realm of hiring.
One is efficacy.
Within this it's crucial to understand that nobody is being forced to use these tests, but rather we assume rationality on the part of the employers.
We assume this rationality both in using the test in the first place and in implementation of the results of the test.
This means that when james tells you that you'll get only one type of person, we say one of two things as possible: a, you are better off with only one type of person and so choose to only get one type of person in your work environment.
B, you are aware that diversity in the type of people in your working environment is necessary in order to advance your business, in which case as a rational business owner you will make sure to choose to diversify.
Both of these options, some preferable in certain businesses others preferable and others, are only available to you when you have more information as to the candidates.
Now they say this test is imperfect and they're right.
However, note that the comparative is not with perfect information but rather lack of information altogether.
They say well look, compare it to other hiring practices such as recommendations.
Note that information is available today.
The only difference is a lack of the information of the personal of the personality test.
So we think it is very beneficial to business owners in certain areas and to be able to do this.
Secondly, we think they have the right to do this.
A privately owned business is similar to a privately owned home of an individual.
It belongs to me and I have the right to ensure that I'm surrounded by people with whom I can cooperate and who make my day bearable and not worse.
What does this mean?
It means much like I can choose to only befriend entertaining people and only invite those people to a party I'm hosting at my house, I can also choose that there are only certain types of personality which I want to take part in my privately owned business.
This is particularly true when you note the effect of personality on a person's ability to do their job, which differentiates it from gender for example.
It is discrimination only when it is not relevant and pertinent to the notion of ability to commit your job.
However, when it is, when it's similar to the necessity for a nurse to show empathy or a teacher to show patience or a lawyer in certain fields to show aggression, we think these are things that are pertinent to the job and therefore not discriminatory in any meaningful sense of the word.
Lastly, we think these tests help minority groups.
How?
They enable them an avenue to avert stereotyping.
What does that mean?
It means within the realm of people who would likely have stereotyped against them and not hired them under assumptions of particular personalities because of the color of their skin or their gender, it enables them to step out of that box and prove that they are not such, they do that they do not fall under the stereotype for their race or gender, therefore making it easier to advance minority groups within society.
What then are our responses to what we hear from james?
One, he says it's unfair to test takers.
A, information not being permitted to ask.
We say that's debatable whether we shouldn't be able to ask that but at worst remove those questions.
He says it doesn't necessarily affect performance, we say it often does.
B, grades and education often don't affect performance.
However, you're working with a non-perfect data set.
This improves upon it even if it does so in in in an imperfect way.
He says the test doesn't account for stress during the interview.
We say we find that likely that that was factored in at some point, particularly given that is in the interest of the free market to factor that in.
He says it is harmful to employers, we say that is up to them to as rational actors to decide, not to him.
So because it's not discrimination, it is not harmful, it is beneficial, it is in the right of the employer to do this, and it helps minority groups, please oppose the motion.