Organ donations should be mandatory.
How do we see this working?
At the point where an individual dies, that individual's organs go to a registry, statewide registry or a national registry, whatever it is and from that registry, they can then be granted without the individual's permission, without their family's permission, to anyone in need of an organ.
The transplant list remains essentially the same way it is today, I.
E.
People get transplants based on need, based on severity, based on whether or not they're alcoholics, for example, things like that.
Crucially, we think there should be an opt out as opposed to an opt in, meaning today you have to actively sign to allow people to use your organs, tomorrow everyone is automatically signed to allow people to use their organs, and you can go through a committee, for example, to opt out if you have particular personal reasons, such as religious justification, for not being allowed or able to donate your organs after death.
We think it's likely that for religious reasons we'll exempt people, obviously for medical reasons we'll exempt people.
If somebody's organs are tainted, we're not going to use them.
If there are other reasons that are good enough, maybe we'll exempt people that way too.
Crucially, notice that in countries with opt-out programs today, such as denmark, for example, organ donation is at anywhere between eighty five and a hundred percent, meaning that even when you let people opt out for no reason, most people still end up donating their organs.
Two arguments we're going to make today.
One, on property and autonomy after death.
Why they, to an extent at least, cease to be and therefore, why these organs at the point of death no longer belong to you, and two, on market failure.
Crucially, on property and autonomy after death.
They're going to tell you that even if you don't maintain property or autonomy after death, you can deliver it away before death.
That is to say you can, much like you don't maintain your money after death but create a will, in which your money goes to the person or persons to whom you want it to go, you can do the same with your organs.
Note that falls on our side of the house.
Why?
A, it means the organs are going to someone.
B, it means the initial state is that the organs don't maintain under your control, much like with property.
If an individual does not write up a will and has no remaining heirs, for example, his property is not buried alongside him, right?
That property is taxed and taken by the state.
So that argument also falls on our side of the house.
Why is it that you don't maintain autonomy after death?
We say autonomy is something that is given to individuals with the ability to choose.
This is the reason that animals don't have autonomy, because they can't make rational choices.
This is the reason that children, to a great extent, don't have autonomy, because they don't have the cognizant cognitive facilities that enable them to make actual real-life choices.
This is a reason that fetuses aren't even considered human beings and can be aborted because they don't have that autonomy of choice, therefore they don't have autonomy over their body.
We say at the point that an individual dies, they lose autonomy over themselves.
This means that their faculties no longer belong to them.
This means that their organs no longer belong to them.
Now, to whom do they belong?
A, we say they belong to the state because the state facilitated their existence for a long time.
They did tihs through healthcare, they did this through through education.
But b, at the point at which they belong to nobody, we say the state is the best actor suited to give them to the people who most need them.
So even if they belong to nobody, they should go to the state.
Secondly, we say there's a market failure.
We say most people, if asked ten years after their loved ones died, would give away their organs happily.
The problem is you have to ask them at a point where they are so emotionally distraught that they can't imagine ripping into their loved one and taking something out of their body.
So, if people could make rational decisions regarding this, maybe we wouldn't need, as a government, to so so-called intervene.
It's not really intervention because it never really belonged to them after the point of death anyway.
But given that people can't even make this decision rationally by themselves, we're happy to say that it's a good place for a government to intervene in the market.
For these reasons, please propose.