What side government are telling you, is that there's a group of people, who hold a belief which is not particularly rooted in science, and that belief puts dietary restrictions on these individuals.
To us, this sounds like religion.
Two things we're going to talk to you about in this debate: one, naturalism as religion, and the right to maintain your religious values, and two, on comparative benefits of natural food.
Three points of rebuttal before that.
One, they say they don't use pesticide, so likely people will get sick.
A, organic food uses organic pesticides, sometimes less effective, often, as effective as regular pesticides.
B, we have no problem with testing this food before it's allowed in the supermarket.
So, if I'm an organic farmer, and I grew a batch of whatever, and I send it off to trader joe's to be sold from there, trader joe's should be forced to test it before putting it up for sale.
This is not a reason for a blanket ban on selling organic food.
Lastly, note that an individual can be aware of this added risk.
Given that, part of the reason they're not consuming this regular food in the first place is because of the pesticides, they ought be aware that there aren't use of pesticides in the organic food, that means that even if they are eating the food, in spite of a risk, they are doing so in a calculated manner and that is each individual's right to do.
Secondly, he says this stuff goes goes bad because they don't use preservatives, and that's a problem.
Look, so does milk, OK?
Unless you're going to ban all dairy products from supermarkets, you have to recognize that this is inconsistent logic.
Lastly, they say there is long term benefits that are dependent on facilities, whatever that means.
Look, we have no idea why that's true that the long term benefits of organic food are dependent on facilities, but it seems someone over in side government has recognized a type of organic farming facility, which could indeed create long term benefits.
It seems then, that the problem is that not all facilities act in that way.
It seems then, that what government action should be taken in order to do, is ensure that the organic label is given only to facilities which act in that manner, therefore creating a situation, in which they all act in a way, which gives us the long term benefits, not banning all organic food.
Two points, one, on naturalism as religion.
It is long since been held, that people have a right to their religious beliefs.
However, religious beliefs have been taken over and miscategorized by a few core groups of religion.
We think, religion grows beyond that, we think religion is based on the identifying of an individual into a group larger than themselves, with that group holding beliefs core to that individual's identity.
To that extent, we think naturalism is a form of religion.
They believe in mother earth as a deity, those people's religious beliefs demand of them particular dietary restrictions.
We think, this is just as atrocious as banning kosher food, or halal food, in an entire country, because that's not necessarily the most healthy way to eat.
It is these people's right to consume organic food, and without dealing with that, proposition cannot win.
Secondly, on comparative benefits.
Look, we recognize that organic food isn't necessarily the most healthy, but until you ban mcdonald's, until you ban ice cream, until you ban candy, you have no moral leg to stand on to say: we're banning organic food because of health benefits.
Individuals have the right to opt into food that is less healthy, but supports other systems of their identity.
For those reasons please oppose.