Politics in the united states are fractured.
The political system has reached a stalemate.
The reason this is happening, is because of a widening divide between parties.
Take a look for example at the most recent elections, the popular candidates on either side are becoming more and more extreme.
Bernie sanders version of socialist politics have never been so popular in the united states, and on the other side people like ted cruz and the eventual winner donald trump, have been massively more right wing than most of their predecessors.
The problem this creates, is by ever widening the gap between the parties, you make it more and more difficult to cross the aisle, more and more difficult for both sides to cooperate, something that is usually necessary in order to pass laws, in order to create effective change, and in order to help the people.
How do we solve this?
We enact open primaries.
What do those look like?
There's a popular vote in all states together.
Two such votes happen, one for each party.
Each party has a primary, the candidates running in those primaries must be affiliated with the party, meaning we weed out trojan horses and things like that.
How do we think this ends up solving the situation?
So what happens the day after tomorrow, is that the entire country gets to vote on who the democratic nominee is and the entire country gets to vote on who the republican nominee is.
This means democrats are choosing a republican and republicans are choosing a democrat.
However, this keeps happening from within the party, meaning the democrats that the republicans are choosing is still by definition a democrat.
This does a few things.
The first thing it does is get votes for the closest to the center nominee within the party because that is a person who, for example if we're talking about the democratic party, republicans would be most comfortable with in the general election.
The second thing it does is centralize the supposedly democratic candidates as well, because it now becomes politically advantageous for them to advocate for more central policies, to show more ability to cross the aisle, and to cooperate.
For two reasons, one because it gets them votes from primary voters on the other side of the aisle, but two because if you assume a, to an extent, pragmatic voter, it means that democrats now see that in order to get a candidate they want they can't veer too far to the right.
So they have the incentive to centralize as well and this happens on both sides of the aisle.
What do you lose from this?
They'll tell us on opposition extremist ideas are important, they're important for discourse, they're important for politics etcetera.
Here's the thing.
We don't think you lose the discourse because extremists will always get more stage time, because what they're saying is more shocking, more valuable as far as the media is concerned.
You get their discourse, you just don't get their negative effect on policy making itself.
You don't get their ability to stagnate the entire political system.
So by allowing everyone to vote, you incentivize everyone to calm down just a little bit, vote just a little less extreme and get politicians who can now work together in order to make the country better and you still have the extreme discourse which is sometimes necessary to shake things up.
Please propose.