Yaar starts off by telling us that there's some sort of magical reason that only americans get to vote in american elections, and that for some reason it's not being influenced by the election.
He says this because he says everybody in the world is influenced by american elections, but surely he recognizes that the level and intensity of influence is drastically different as is the buy-in to the system and for example, things like paying taxes into the system, taking part in the system's educational system, taking part of the system's economic system, etcetera.
He never goes on to analyze that any farther, so we're not quite sure how to respond to that other than saying we think it's well within their rights to vote for either party because they could have signed up for either party, even, note, if they are democratic they can sign up as part of the republican party today and effect it from the inside, the only question is can they do both, and we're not sure why that would be a problem.
Two points.
One, yaar says, " look, the main issue here is that the people themselves are more divided ", not that the politicians are dividing them.
Two responses.
One, we think it's cyclical.
Sure, the people themselves are more divided, this is undoubtedly true, but we think that is likely caused, at least to an extent, by politicians having an ongoing interest to continue to divide those people.
We've seen it in recent elections with politicians attempting to divide people between camps, and specifically by using rhetoric surrounding ethos of are you a republican or are you a democrat ergo, entrenching the division not based on policy, but based on identity.
We think that's massively problematic.
But two, even if yaar's right, even if this is entirely caused by the people themselves, by something inside them deep down that's been dividing them, surely, politicians have enough power, enough political stage, enough media time to pull them back together to an extent, to use the kind of rhetoric that pushes them together more.
So even if they didn't create the problem, they can solve it.
C, even if they can't solve it they can still cooperate to make better laws at the point at which they are better people representing at the top.
Secondly yaar says people will use their vote to harm the party by voting for the worst possible candidate.
We think this is highly, highly unlikely.
Why?
A, note the risk being taken by people who do this is massive.
It is literally handing over the united states military to the person who they think is least qualified to hold that position.
Crucially, they must recognize, based on yaar's own logic, that it is a big risk, because as he says, it's a prisoner's dilemma, IE the reason to do this is because you know the other side might do it that means that each person opting into this system is well aware that it is potentially possible that if they put in the dumbest person, that person will lead the united states.
That is hugely terrifying !
We say people tend to be risk averse, particularly with large, scary decisions.
This means that many many people won't act that way.
But crucially, b, even if some people do act that way it's important to remember that the entire republican side, for example, is still also voting in the republican primaries.
That means that if the democratic side does split its vote between an idiot candidate and a proper central candidate, the republican candidate who represents republican the best is most likely to be the one who wins out within the primaries, and at the very very worst, that means that we haven't improved the situation, while still allowing people to feel they have some more control over their lives, over their futures and over the political discourse.
Please support the motion.