The summer break isn't intended to strengthen the state's educational grip over young minds.
It's intended to weaken it and enable outside forces to penetrate the educational mind of that child as well.
One argument in this debate.
Government has a monopoly over education.
They do not deserve this monopoly, they should not maintain this monopoly.
Parents have a right to educate their children and three months out of the year where they get to do this is a wonderful thing that we shouldn't get rid of.
Three points of refutation before we start: one, we're told students forget over the summer and it's a waste of time to have to re-teach them everything.
So two things: a, the assumption that they're not going to forget over the two week vacation alternative that is being proposed to us seems kind of strange particularly because the speaker then goes on to analyze that somethings you forget if you don't practice every single day.
By that rationale, as it is you're going to have to re-teach things then it seems on their side of the house you're going to have to re-teach them more frequently therefore waste more time.
But we think that re-teaching things or at least re-teaching things once is not a bad use of time.
They're gonna leave school at some point, they're going to forget at some point and the act of relearning something means it's better recalled the next time around.
Though it's not just that you now remembered again but now you remember in a deeper and more meaningful way because it has been learnt and relearnt.
We think that means it's a good educational tool AKA not a waste of school time.
Secondly, he speaks about avoiding burnout.
Look, they have a weekend break every week already.
We think burn out is not a particular issue with the system, not the system they propose.
We think that's fine, but also not the system that exists.
We don't think burnout happens on our side of the house.
Thirdly, he says, he talks about parents and he says poor parents need to spend more money on daycare and food.
So one, were really happy to subsidize this.
That seems trivial.
Two, you have to compare this to two weeks every two months, right?
This way, there's one summer camp that they can send their kids to and that summer camp, because it's organized and has people for the summer, can charge less money.
But when it's every two weeks out of a month, you're gonna end up having parents who have no choice but to stay at home instead of going to work because nobody else can watch their kids for a sporadic two weeks every two months.
We think it gets much worse on their side of the house.
We would note that they're not offering substantially less vacation time, just substantially more dispersed vacation time.
Lastly, we think this is an effective that that they can put this time to effective use which brings me into my argument.
Right now, governments get to teach kids nine months out of the year.
They give them back for three.
What can happen during those three months?
Parents can send their kids to space camp where their kids can discover a love of science, they can send their kids to math camp where can they can discover that math isn't just the way it's taught to the dumbest kids in class.
It's something more, it's something beautiful.
Conversely, they can send their kids to art camp where they can learn that art is a thing or that or to music camp.
Crucially, we think these camps are available to everyone in society including the lowest echelons because they are a necessity and necessities create markets even for the lowest paying income families.
If not, we're happy to subsidize it.
What does all this mean?
It means you have three months of time where kids continue to study but they study things that are it on a government subsidized a a a government sanctioned curriculum.
They expand their horizons and they break the monopoly that the government has over brainwashing children, allowing parental influence.
Why is that so crucial?
One, the parents are responsible for the kid these kids and so have a right to their education.
Two, we fear government having too much power over the educational abilities of children, and three the parents are dependent on these children in the future and should so should have a right to shape their future.
Please allow parents to continue educating their children at least some of the time.
This doesn't become possible with two weeks at a time, it does become possible with two months at a time.
Please oppose.