Prenatal diagnosis brings more good than harm.
Two levels of analysis.
One, on how knowledge improves decision making within the life of the parents, the fetus and outside that circle.
And two, on the moral luck of darwinism and evolution in general, how we as society can continue evolving.
So first, let's understand what prenatal diagnosis is.
It's important to recognize that prenatal diagnosis is generally done during cases of in vitro fertilization, at which point more than one sperm often fertilizes an egg, and often what happened is one of those mix and matches creates a genetic deformity, while there exist other, let's call them fetuses, within that same petri dish that can create a healthy child.
So frequently, it's a very easily avoidable thing where a pregnancy then continues and goes on.
Other times, if parents choose to abort, they need to get re-pregnant, either through an in-vitro fertilization again or through natural ways of getting pregnant.
But in general what happens is you take, in the grand scheme of things, this potentially genetically disabled child out of the equation, and replace them with a different child at the point before anyone has become emotionally attached to this child.
So first, let's talk about how knowledge improves decisions.
It's important to point out not all parents decide to abort, specifically those for whom it is the choice between this child or no child at all, either because for whatever reason they can't go through IVF again, or because this is a type of result that is likely to repeat itself even if they do, will often choose to keep the child.
Crucially, at the point at which they now are aware of the specific genetic disease this child is likely to carry, they are better able to prepare themselves both mentally and physically for this child.
It means they know better what their finances need to be and therefore know how much money they save.
It means they know what school district they need to live in in order to provide proper education for their child, it means they can already start filling in various forms of paperwork in order to get the assistance needed to care for this child.
All of this means that both the lives of the parents and the life of the child are substantially better off at the point at which they have this knowledge ahead of time.
What happens if they choose not to have this child?
We think that's often done with the knowledge that they can have a different child who is healthy instead, which means that this nonexistent form is replaced with another nonexistent form who then becomes a child, and makes everyone's lives better off for it.
Secondly, let's talk about the moral luck of darwinism.
So, evolution is the process by which humankind continuously gets stronger and better, because the weak die off.
The problem is, quote unquote problems, evolution stopped when modern medicine began, because at the point at which we can fix things or patch things up, then people stop dying out and their genes continue spreading.
Now obviously this is preferable to regular evolution, we'd like saving human lives as they exist.
But at the point at which we have the potential to recreate darwinism without taking an actual life, and note status quo logic would have you believe that a fetus is not an actual life, we think it is preferable for society in the long run, because prevention of these genetic diseases means not only preventing this one person but also preventing generations from carrying this deformed gene.
It essentially means creating a society in which fewer people suffer from diseases.
Given that this is all a question of moral luck regarding which sperm you happen to take from the fertilized egg, we think it's better to be in a world in which you can improve upon all of society for generations to come.
For these reasons we support the motion.