Imagine if a community leader in harlem came up to the mayor and said hey guy, my community could really use a new road.
Maybe just more than one subway train that goes anywhere near our neighborhood.
It wouldn't be difficult for you all to understand that he'd be turned down.
It would be clear to you why he'd be turned down.
Because the mayor cares more about white upper west side and lower east side where all the rich people live and can influence him more and make sure he gets reelected, and so the poor people get thrown aside, they get thrown under the bus.
The same thing happens with states.
And that's what we're goinna talk to you about in this speech, how congressional earmarks allow states to overcome being born unequal and disadvantaged.
Three points of refutation before that.
One, he says congress's job is to allocate is to allocate funding and the executive is supposed to determine how you spend it.
That sounds like it's being upkept.
Congress allocates funding for a road between a and b, the executive decides which contractor to hire, what kind of road to build, AKA how you spend it.
He says, look, saying the highway should pass between all these towns, is spending way more money on things you don't need.
Really, congress's job is to allocate the funding, IE to determine whether or not all those towns maybe need access to a highway so they can get jobs in other towns because otherwise they're stuck in their poverty with no ability to exit it.
It sounds like congress is doing exactly what it's supposed to be doing.
Secondly, he says this creates distrust and resentment.
Yes, this is what's creating the distrust and resentment between the democrats and the republicans, come on.
Three he says, there are promises where called the pork barrel spending, if you reelect me, I will get e and y done in this town.
That sounds like campaign promises.
Politicians use this everywhere m it's not particularly related to the way in which they insure these promises get upkept.
It it honestly sounds like finally there are politicians who are sticking to their word but, if anything, their problem is with no term limits which wer'e fine with supporting.
Let's talk into, talk about, how not all states were born equal.
A congress's job is to ensure the benefit of his constituents, meaning the people from their state.
However, states are quite unequal which causes problems for these states.
Why are they unequal?
A different states have different amounts of money, b different states have different sizes.
This both means that they have less money because there are fewer people in the state, and fewer people means fewer votes which is problematic for things like choosing the executive, because it means they have less impact on the system as a whole, and three, they are different geographically.
So, for example states on the coast have been where trade happens because they happen to be on the coast, so those states have become richer and more powerful over time meanwhile states in midland, all they have is farmland and since farmland is not particularly prosperous, they end up with less economic power.
What is the problem that that creates?
These these states need more federal spending because they cannot spend locally money that they do not have.
However, because they have less money and less power, they also have less sway over federal spending, where does the solve come in?
Specifically through congressional earmarks.
Why?
Because congress,thanks to the equality within the senate, is the one place where they have almost an equal say.
The one place where a congressman a senator from missouri is equal to a senator from california.
Earmarked spending is the one way that weaker states have the ability to make sure that that gap doesn't grow.
And in fact, get somewhat smaller, that they have that highway that they get built that new company that insures that they still have jobs next year.
We think that is a wonderful thing, and we beg you to oppose.