The counterfactual to this debate is one in which that child or fetus does not exist as a human being, therefore in order to measure whether prenatal diagnosis does more good than harm, what you need to do is look at two potential worlds: one in which that this child exists and is a son or daughter to his family with a disability, and one in which that family is without child.
We're going to compare those two worlds, show why those are the two likely worlds, and explain why there's more happiness in the world with a disabled child than without a child.
Before that, two points of refutation.
One, he says it's better for the parents because it costs a lot of money and there's emotional harm.
Imagine the following scenario.
Two people, one has a regular home, nice, upkept etcetera.
The other has a dingy old home that he inherited from his great great grandparents, and he always has to put more and more money into fixing the pipes and uprooting the backyard and getting rid of the mold.
Now, surely this home costs him more and yet, countless examples of people end up staying in these homes, because they are emotionally connected to the investment put into these homes.
We think the same is true for many parents.
But wait, he'll say, some parents won't want this and they should get to choose.
We'll talk in the first argument about why this is not a decision able to be made at the point at which it's being made.
Secondly, he says it's better for the kids because it's difficult to be disabled.
Note the comparative in this debate is literally death.
So what he's saying is being disabled is worse than being dead.
He's saying the life of disabled people is a life not worth living.
We simply think that's both sad and untrue.
Sure, their lives are somewhat more difficult than the lives of many people, even much more difficult for some of them.
But certainly their lives have value and meaning.
If not, we'd like to understand why he is fine with things like killing them, enslaving them etcetera, if their lives have absolutely no value.
Let's talk about why parents can't make this decision rationally.
The problem with being able to make a decision ahead of time, is that the data is skewed in favor of the dry scientific data of disease, versus the emotional data that can only be accrued once the child is born.
Crucially, the emotional data is illogical data, meaning the emotional connection that you end up having with your child and with your investment in this child is pertinent to the amount of joy and happiness you feel based on this child.
However, since you can only get that data later, we think it's skewed in a way that makes parents irrationally often choose to abort the fetus.
Now let's take the comparative.
So they'll say look, these people will simply have another child.
We would note that mostly this thing is available via in vitro fertilization, a process that costs upwards of twenty thousand dollars, and often is available to people only once.
Some rich people can try more than once, sure, but for most people this is not an alternative.
Secondly, the experience of having to create and then abort a child based on a genetic disease, one that is likely to repeat itself given that it's a genetic disease, is quite excruciating.
It means a lot of people will avoid going through it again for emotional reasons.
Now let's make the comparative.
They he tells us they have a hard life on eh on their side of the house.
Sure.
On our side of the house to have to live day in and day out with the idea that a, they could have had a child and they chose not to, b, that child could have brought them joy, and c, that they to an extent abandoned that child.
We think all of that is much more painful, much more harmful and overall much worse than having a child who has specific genetic disabilities.
For these reasons we are proud to oppose.