You have to spend money to make money.
Interestingly, we think both sides of the debate agree on that.
The real question in this debate is how, and who should spend the money?
See what opposition stand for in this debate is a free market version of trickle down economics.
Their rationale says something along the lines of, if you tax the people with money those people cannot spend their money by increasing their businesses and the increasing of those businesses making them bigger, expanding those businesses means creating new jobs, creating new places of business, creating new opportunities.
We, however, on proposition say we need to intervene with that free market.
We need to take the money from those same businesses, from those big businesses, those businesses that that opposition say should be spending the money themselves and we need to spend it.
We need to spend it on education, and on infrastructure, and on new industries, and on expanding current smaller medium and smaller and medium sized businesses in the form of tax cuts and tax breaks etcetera.
So the real question is, why do we think we need to intervene?
Three things we're going to talk to you about.
The first is on market stagnation, the second is on geographic alignment, and the third is on work force increase and revenue.
Let's talk about market stagnation.
So the main problem, we think, is there is a lack of alignment on a time line between when businesses can spend money and should spend money and when people need jobs.
During economic depression, it is generally seen as a bad financial idea to spend money, not because there aren't businesses that need to be created, not because there isn't ways to make money based on spending money but just because the market low means people are financially unstable to an extent and they have fear.
At that point it means that when all of these people are out of a job and need to work in order to sustain themselves those few people who have the money to spend and can spend it aren't doing so because the timeline doesn't work out.
Now free market people will say okay sure but give it five years and they'll start spending again to which we say these people don't have five years they need to work now in order to feed their families, they need to get job opportunities in the next month, two months, three months, six months tops otherwise they go hungry.
Secondly, there's geographic alignment.
The market doesn't react the same way all across large countries.
Certainly across states like in america.
You need a federal government able to properly reallocate this money in order to deal with that.
So, for example, perhaps the east coast and the west coast have the larger corporations, the one that weren't hurt as bad, meanwhile farming jobs are taken away from the from the the middle construction jobs are taken away from the middle and no one's returning them there.
So even if these people are opening up new businesses with their money, it's in the wrong place, it's the places that aren't helpful to what the government is trying to achieve here in creation of new jobs and stabilizing the economy.
Lastly, let's talk about work force increase in revenue.
The main problem is these big companies, the one that still have all the money, to increase their revenue they don't need to increase their workforce.
They take their scientists who have already created a product, then those same scientists create a new product.
They invest in other companies crucially often companies overseas that don't create local jobs.
New companies, small companies when they expand, they're the ones who need to expand their workforce.
So from diverting the money from big conglomerates to smaller and medium companies in the form of tax breaks you ensure that while the economy grows equally the job offers get much more significant.
For all these reasons, we beg you to intervene and help the economy grow.