Not only is a retirement age a disgusting form of institutionalized discrimination, it is also extremely pernicious to low income families, we're going to talk about both those things.
Before that, a few points of refutation to yaar.
Yaar says, otherwise they're going to be fired before, or at best, a few years later.
That's not going to happen.
Why?
A, all of yaar's reasons, for them not being fired the day before they reach retirement age, something that note, can happen, it's perfectly legal, still hold tomorrow.
It's still true that, in order to attract the best workers I need to give them benefits that include job security in old age.
It is still true that, in order to not bum out everyone around in the office, I need to not fire the sweet old guy who's been doing his job.
Obviously, if they stopped doing their job that's a different story.
Crucially and secondly, most industries aren't ever changing.
In most industries, it's not like the computer world where new inventions are happening every week, right?
Most of these places, the fashion world, the building world, the construction world, the whatever it is you want to talk about, things stay pretty much the same, and years and years of experience are a massive gift to the individual.
What does that mean?
It means that, it's not that eventually, they'll be fired anyway a few years later.
It means that, most of these people get to quit on their own terms, when they've had enough, when they managed to save enough, when they have put aside enough, for retirement, and you're taking that away from them.
Yaar says this is less embarrassing than being fired, and we need to protect their dignity.
Well, this is a hell of a lot more embarrassing than leaving on your own damn terms, when your ready to leave.
Let's talk about rights.
Because, even if some people are being saved from humiliation, who, in god's name, said you get to take everyone else's right to work, to support themselves and their family, in order to protect a few people's dignity?
This is the worst form of ageism.
Yaar agrees, he opens by saying: yes we agree this is ageism.
What's his point then?
His point is analogous to saying, well, sure it's ageism, but we should fire every woman when she gets to thirty, because some of them are going to get pregnant and fired over that, and that'll be embarrassing to them, so let's make sure to avoid that.
That's not ok, you don't get that use people's individuality to construct a less offensive way to for for corporations to fire some individuals.
Each person is a person to their own right, and you do not get to fire them based on irrelevant qualities.
You want to test people, to make sure they're still competent every year after they hit seventy?
That's fine, but you can't fire them just because they get to a certain age.
Secondly, let's talk about what this does to lower income families, because yaar seems to assume that, dignity is waiting for them at home.
To people who have been working low income jobs income jobs their whole lives, dignity is not what's waiting for them on the other side of the firing realm.
What's waiting for them is cold, is poverty, is hunger, because they don't have enough money to sustain themselves for an ever rising number of years that you live, passed when you've been fired for being old.
These people are not being spared humiliation, they're being forced into a cycle of humiliation and poverty, when they need to go to soup kitchens to to sustain themselves, or beg on their children's doors for a bed to sleep in.
If these are the only people being harmed, it's still not ok to fire everyone, just because they hit sixty five.
Please, oppose this atrocious rule.