This isn't a debate about whether or not you need to spend money to make money.
This is a debate about who needs to spend money and how.
In opposition, we do not think that in times of economic depression and great amounts of unemployment you need to sit there and hope things get better.
We think you need to act.
We think you need jobs to be created.
We simply think it's done better by the free market than it is by governments.
Our argument today is going to be simple.
Short term businesses during a a depression are bad businesses.
The government is particularly bad at recognizing what these businesses are because they tend tend to suit their short term needs and governments tend to think in a short term manner and the free market it substantially better at recognizing these.
Two points of rebuttal to yaar: one, yaar talks about says unemployment is bad.
Say sure, that's not the argument.
The argument is state versus market.
Secondly, yaar says a strong market is good for the rich people.
Again, sure happy to concede that.
We show you a stronger market on our side of the house.
So let's talk about short term businesses.
So, exactly yaar's explanation of lowering the purchasing power of people means that when you're creating a business during a depression, the business needs that you're trying to meet are not those of the lower echelons of society.
Indeed not though that the median echelons of society who have recently suffered a hit to their economic purchasing ability and therefore looking to tighten their belt.
Generally speaking they'd be, in order to meet the needs of the higher echelons of society, those who still have some form of purchasing power.
The problem is you've just taken away, by taxation, the ability of those groups to purchase as much as well.
In addition to that, you've also made them dislike these companies specifically because these are the companies in the name of which their taxation has risen.
But it's not just about people it's also about societal needs in a time of depression.
You have fewer businesses able to run which means that the business needs of businesses are substantially smaller.
We would note that over time it tends to be businesses that support other businesses which are safer and more prosperous for society.
Governments however are looking to make a quick buck, they're looking to get as many people in jobs as quickly as possible.
In order to do that, we say they necessarily have to create a bunch of these businesses that enter a failing market in the first place.
Why are government short term thinkers?
Because they're going to be replaced in four years, because in three years when re elections come up they want to be able to point and say look how many people we got into jobs.
In order to get as big a number of possible they can't take long enough to calculate the long term harms of this.
This means governments are setting you up for another cycle of rise and then depression again.
Why are businesses compare comparably good at doing this?
Because a corporation is able to mark a few terms of of losses in order to make big gains.
Take a look at investment companies is an example of this.
They give out and give out and give out money knowing that five years down the line one of these is going to pay off big.
This is certainly the type of thing you can explain to an executive board during a time of depression.
When you allow companies to take advantage of the fact that a week cut that a weak economy means cheaper buying price and means return a gain return on investment that is huge five ten years down the line, you allow the free market to build the businesses that are going to last.