Two reasons why we think that year-round schooling is exceptionally beneficial.
One, we think summer vacation strengthens classes and harms social mobility, classes as in the class that you belong to and not the school class.
Two, we think it is more effective overall towards learning when you learn consistently.
Let's talk about mechanism for a little bit because we think that's very important in this debate.
So in general we think overall there would be substantially less vacation time under our our new model.
It's not like we're taking the two and a half month summer vacation and dispersing it throughout the year, we're cutting that significantly.
We will have like week-long vacations dispersed throughout the year, probably like once a semester or so, every three months you get a week-long vacation.
How are the school days going to look?
One, the school day of the regular curriculum is going to get shorter so that you can spread material over more time.
Two, afternoons are going to have expansions for individuals.
So if today you finish school and then you go home and do homework, tomorrow you finish school earlier and you spend the next three four hours doing homework within school, with your peers, with the assistance of your teachers, and you get help for those students lagging behind who need additional help and expansions for those students running ahead, who need to be properly challenged and stimulated.
Lastly, we're going to take a chunk of this extra time we have now, let's call it a month of summer semester, and we're going to turn that into specialty schooling.
So if throughout the year you're learning math and english and science, etcetera, during that one month you get to petition your school board regarding parents like parents get to petition the school board to have computer sciences for example introduced for a month, similar to how you might have learning camps during summer today, which some children are exposed to, but most aren't.
Two arguments: one, why do we think that summer vacations are harmful to social mobility?
Imagine, if you will, the ability of a low socioeconomic family to assist their child during summer vacation.
We think one of a few things happen.
One, in order to gain supervision for that child, they need to send them to any form of summer camp.
To do that, since they can't afford most summer camps, they end up sending them to a summer camp overloaded with kids, that charges as little as possible.
Those camps tend to preoccupy those kids with things that don't cost very much money.
So, for example, playing sports, going on a field trip right nearby the house, swimming in a pool at best, etcetera.
Meanwhile, families with more means are sending their kids to space camp, to science camp, to math camp, and those kids continuously learn and advance their comparative advantage over the poorer kids throughout the summer.
We think this means that the kids from wealthier homes are showing up to the new academic year ahead of the kids from poorer homes.
They then get moved up to the more AP classes, and their advantage over the poorer kids gets maintained over the years because of summer break.
So that's the first point.
We think in order to enable equality for everyone, we should be responsible for the education of kids not just eight months out of the year, but throughout the whole year.
Secondly, we think it's more effective overall learning.
Our mechanism allows for kids to learn less material in more time and enables them to get better attention to the specific types of learning they need because they have more hours available in the day, all this while not making them significantly more tired because they're still learning the same amount of hours total in a day.
We think that is more effective for everyone.
Now they'll say they need to blow off steam.
This is true.
That's why you get a week out of every three months or so.
But after a week, you're no longer blowing off steam, you're just sitting at home during summer vacation, being bored.
We think that's not beneficial for anyone.
For these reasons, we think that year-round schooling brings more more good than harm.