Antarctica is unique, it is unique in the benefits that it offers us, and it is also unique in the damages that it can cause us if we abuse it.
On this side of the house we say, we must continue protecting it for both those reasons.
Two things we're going to talk about today: one, on the danger of melting ice caps, and two, on the unique form of natural reserve that is antarctica, and why it is important to maintain unique natural reserves.
So first, on melting ice caps, oppositions are going to come in this debate and say: look, there may be things in antarctica that, we can use for benefit.
We may be able to mine natural gases or something.
It's crucial to realize though, that those come at a cost.
What is this cost?
So, global warming is something that is threatening the entire world as a whole.
How does that correlate to antarctica specifically?
One of the things that makes antarctica unique is that the amounts of ice in antarctica are a, enormous, and b, feed into oceans around the globe.
This is why, one of the most dangerous things of global warming is melting ice caps.
What ends up happening is the ice caps melt, they then fill into these oceans surrounding antarctica, which feed into oceans around the world.
Given the quantities of ice caps, that means that the levels of the oceans rise significantly, this means rising tides.
This creates natural disasters.
First and foremost, most simply in things like wiping out entire beach front, cities, and even islands, because they get covered in water moreover, because of the rate at which this happens, you end up getting things like tsunamis, that then create damage even farther into the mainlands.
What does all this mean?
If you drill, to try and find gas, you're creating vibrations, which raise the heat.
If you bring corporations in their, just the quantities of people involved in getting gas et cetera, means raising significantly the level of heat in antarctica, regardless of what you do.
If they do find something there, finding something means more people coming in to extract it, and more work going into extraction.
It means you raise significantly the level of heat.
You cannot get any benefits on opposition, without also the massive risk of melting ice caps, and we say that risk just isn't worth it, given the massive damages it creates, and the alternative of getting gas elsewhere.
Secondly, let's talk about unique natural reserves.
Antarctica is unique.
It's not like a desert, where you have lots of deserts in the world.
It's not like a wildlife reserve, where you have lots of wildlife reserves.
It's like the brazilian rainforests.
It is the only thing of its kind.
Only it exists, only it shows us what natural life looks eh life looks like, in these sorts of freezing temperatures.
Two reasons we think that means it should remain unharmed and undisturbed.
One, the amount that it enables us to learn about biology and evolution is enormous and irreplaceable, because it's the only one of its kind.
And two, we think we have a moral debt, both to nature, to not harm unique aspects of nature in an irreversible way, and to future societies who also deserve to reap those learning benefits, and enjoy the beauty of places like antarctica.
For all of these reasons please continue to protect it.