In places where trans fat has been banned already there's been steep decline in hospital admissions for heart attacks and strokes.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that that in and of itself is compelling evidence in favor of the motion we should ban trans fat usage in food.
The health risks that are linked with trans fat include coronary artery disease, diabetes, obesity, liver dysfunction, infertility in women, and more but most people don't know that.
Most people don't know that there's a definitive link between those diseases and trans fat and most people don't know to check the packages of the foods that they eat to look for trans fat or how to look for trans fat.
We think, ladies and gentleman, that trans fat is so present in so many of the processed foods that we eat it's cheap, it increases shelf stability of products but it's harming our society and it is the duty of the government to put an end to it and ban trans fat usage in foods in order to reduced the health risks to people.
The government has a clear duty to protect our health.
We think that it is unfair and unrealistic to expect lay people to keep up with all of the scientific and medical discoveries that are being made on a daily basis in our world.
We think that over the course of just a few decades for example, cigarettes went from being something that was prescribed by doctors to increase health to being banned everywhere and because of their health risks.
That's kind of society that we live in today.
Mere decades can can can change something from being prescribed by doctors to being banned anywhere in public.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that this shows that it's very difficult for people to keep up with scientific discoveries.
It's difficult for doctors themselves.
So who do people rely on today?
When it comes to food we rely on the FDA standards to protect us.
When we stand in front of a shelf in the supermarket we say to ourselves anything that is on the shelf has been approved by the FDA FDA and it's safe for me to eat but trans fats are clearly harming society.
There's a clear link with diseases that are on the rise and there's a clear decrease of these of these diseases and a decrease in heart attacks and strokes where the trans fats have been have been banned from foods already and so we think, ladies and gentleman, that that the FDA and the government have a duty to protect people by banning the use of this deadly ingredient and it's their duty to make sure that people know that there that there is to take that step instead of people, instead of relying on people to stay up to date with this medical information themselves.
We also think, ladies and gentlemen, that when trans fat is put into processed foods, when it's used in processed foods, it is often paired with things that are quite addictive.
Things like chocolate.
Other types of ingredients they're put into foods where people have trouble stopping eating them.
They are cheap foods like french fries, like oreos.
Cheap snacks that we can get on the go and that that we feel is nourishing us and giving us energy even though obviously it's doing more harm than good.
We think that that's a huge problem.
We think that when we're allowed not only to use it in foods but to put it in coupled with foods that are the cheapest foods available on the market and often those that have addictive qualities because they're being paired with other things like caffeine, chocolate, et cetera, we think that that's extra problematic in somewhere where the government has to step in and say no.
This is not allowed.
We're going to take it out of foods.
We're going to protect people from the diseases that are that is plaguing our society so that everyone benefits from a healthier society.
We think it's in the government's interest to do so because it means a healthier society.
We think it's in the government's interest because it has less health insurance payouts and at the end of the day, it has less less taxing on the hospital system, less taxing on doctors.
We think that it's simply a duty that it has first and foremost to protect the citizens of their citizens of the country.
Thank you very much.