Boxing is a violent activity that glorifies punching people in the face.
It is an activity that the government must take a strong stance against and therefore, we must ban boxing.
There're two groups of people who are being harmed when we allow boxing to continue.
First, we have the participants in the sport and second, we have the viewers.
When it comes to the participants, we have to start, of course, with the physical harms to their body.
These are people who sustain multiple fractures and bruising, multiple concussions, on a daily, weekly, monthly basis for years at a time.
This leads to very severe problems for their health, both in the short term and in the long term, including permanent and irreparable brain damage in many cases as a result of these of multiple concussions.
It means degradation of their bones: brittle bones that become harder to deal with with age and are easier to break again and again are more likely to be fractured.
Once they're fractured once, they they tend to fracture more often, and it becomes a war against time until their body breaks down.
We think that in this case, the government has a duty to protect citizens from themselves, when people are being misled by the bright lights, calling this a sport, calling this a legitimate activity, and we must ensure that they realize the real harms involved.
The second type of damage is relevant to both groups of people, both the participants and the audiences, and this is the psychological damage involved and the message that it sends to people at large in society.
This is an extremely violent type of exercise, and it promotes violence by making it exciting and encouraging both sides to escalate the violence to any means necessary with any means necessary in order to win.
Violence becomes good, it becomes fun.
It becomes entertainment and something to cheer about.
There's an aura of legitimacy for punching someone in the face, and that is something that the government must nip in the bud.
It leads to a society that believes that violent abilities make you a better person, more worthy of applause, and that is a very dangerous message to send to people out who are watching.
We think it particularly is bad for children, obviously, and as violence becomes more and more of a problem at younger and younger ages, we have to make sure to protect the youngest people of in society.
And today when you turn on the television, you can see boxing.
You see it in movies and you see it on as a as a sport.
You see it even in in as as athletic events and as competitions that are that gives it this aura of legitimacy that makes people think that it is something that they can aspire to, that children go to extracurricular activities to learn this as a sport, and we think that it's extremely dangerous in the way that it encourages violent solutions to problems instead of other less violent and less problematic solutions.
We think that that it promotes and encourages people to choose a path that will lead to the degradation of their body.
In a world where violence is on the rise from younger and younger ages, it is imperative that the government take a strong stance against violent sports.
We realize that there is a problem with the government stepping in and telling citizens what to do or not to do with their own bodies, but we think that this is one of the cases where there is so much fraud involved, where there is a level of misleading people into thinking that this is a sport, into thinking that this is a legitimate activity, and into thinking that there is positive outcome from it, we think that it is enough that the government has the duty to step in and say, " actually, this is not the case.
Actually, we it is so bad for you, that we are willing to ban it in order to make sure that nobody else is misled into thinking that it's a legitimate activity. "
For these reasons, we would propose banning boxing as a sport.