The gaming world and virtual reality are very powerful worlds.
They give us a glimpse into another self that we could be.
Introverts can be extroverts when they're playing games online.
People who feel ugly can create attractive avatars.
People who feel angry and have no way to vent in the real world can blow off steam by picking up a video game console and entering a fictional world.
The problem is, that for too many of these games that too many of these games are extremely violent and they're being marketed towards children and on this side of the house we propose a ban.
We should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
Why?
Children are at very high risk of being influenced because they're not yet fully developed.
Their brain patterns, their brain function, and their value systems, their understanding of right and wrong, are not yet fully developed and we think that allowing them to purchase these games and play them distorts the development of their brain function.
We think that it distorts their value systems as they grow up.
So we're gonna talk about three main things.
We're gonna talk about the repetitive exposure that affects their values.
We're gonna talk about repetition leading to instinctive reactions, and we're going to talk about the addiction involved in the game.
So the repetitive positive exposure that affects their values.
When somebody is repeatedly exposed to things like shooting other people, beating them up, stealing a car, or raping a woman, and in the game these are positive experiences that are rewarded with points, with extra money, with extra whatever it is within the world of the game, with advancement within the game, this kind of repetitive, positive exposure affects the value system of the child.
Courts today treat adults and children differently and why is that?
Because the brain of a child is not yet capable of fully comprehending right versus wrong and making these these decisions accordingly.
Here we're actively misleading them in creating a situation where their value system is growing in a world where they are positively enforced where they're getting positive enforcement for things that we deem in society to be absolutely immoral violence, sexual violence, theft and the like.
So we think that that is the first and perhaps one of the biggest problems that we have with violent video games.
The second thing we talk about is the idea of repetition leading to instinctive reactions.
So one of the key learning tools that we see in classrooms around the world is the idea of repetition leading to to instinctive answers.
So ask anyone who's had to learn the multiplication table, who's had to study music, the more you repeat something the more it becomes second nature to you.
Games create this repetition right you have stress levels, you have high anxiety levels when you're turning a corner in these games or when you're approaching a car or a certain situation.
Then you have your trigger action, you have your violence, you have your beating somebody up, you have your pulling the trigger, you have you're stealing the car, raping women.
This this violent reaction and then you get a reward and you're flooded with a good feeling.
We think that this kind of repetition is going to lead to instinctive reactions in real life.
We think that when you're in a stressful situation in real life, when you're in an anxious situation in real life you're going to have the same types of reactions.
You're going to have that instinct to become more violent and we think the third thing that's very problematic and that follows from this point is the idea of an addiction.
Cause when you're addicted to something and that is the nature of this game, where they're luring you in and they give you this positive flood of this positive reaction, the problem is that you're going to be seeking out more and more dangerous things.
You're gonna be seeking out the situations where you're going to be able to react with violence and feel that power and feel that positive reaction and that is why we propose we need to ban the sale of violent video games to minors.