Ladies and gentlemen, the government just tried to convince us that the internet brings more harm than good.
How did they do so?
By bringing three harms that they think have great impact on society.
They talked to us about cyberbullying, they talked to us about online vices such as porn and gambling, and they talked to us about the virtual world and how people are sucked in.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the opposition, two things.
First of all, we have answers to all three of these, why we don't think that they are unique to the internet and we don't think that that the internet made these like created these harms or or actively encourages these harms.
Second of all, we think that, on the whole, there is one benefit that that's impact is so much greater than any of those impacts that it outweighs some whatever small harms the internet may have brought about.
Let's talk first, though, about the specific harms that they brought up.
First of all, they brought up cyberbullying.
Let's recognize that cyberbullying existed before the internet existed and will always exist, right?
Bullying existed, and it always has.
The internet may have given us an additional platform for bullying, and it may have made it slightly easier in some ways, but the fact of the matter is that other issues are at fault for the rise in bullying.
We think that other issues have exacerbated the problem far more than the internet ever could've.
We think that, for example, the rise in in corporate demands in the corporate demands of the corporate world, so longer working hours, the fact that two parents are often outside of the home working as opposed to before.
We don't think that those are necessarily bad things in and of themselves, but they have brought about a shift in parenting techniques that we think means that parents are are not as are not monitoring their children as they should be.
We don't think that that's something that can't be fixed, that's an issue for a totally different debate, but the fact is that it's not the internet that brought about bullying, and it's not the internet that made bullying worse in our society.
We we think that that even if we got rid of the internet, the issue of bullying would simply not be solved.
We don't think that this is a harm that was brought about by the internet.
We don't think that it's a harm that's relevant to this debate.
Second of all, they talk to us about online vices.
We say, first of all, much the same.
These are vices that existed before the internet, would always exist no matter what, right?
People will consume porn, people will gamble, that's not something that's unique to the internet or that was brought about by the internet, and therefore it's not a harm of the internet.
However, we do think that there's actually a small benefit hidden here.
We think the proliferation of different types of porn can and is viewed by many as a positive thing.
It means that it's easier for teens to access different types of porn without being embarrassed about keeping a magazine under their bed, and we think that that exploring sexuality and exploring different types of sexuality can actually be a very good thing, a positive thing that the internet has brought about.
And that is going to fall under our benefit, right?
The access to information that's out there we think is such a huge benefit, and we'll get to that in a minute.
Third of all, we heard this harm about being sucked into a virtual world and how you waste your life like living online.
And, again, we think like this is something that that is like incredibly extreme that rarely happens and that, generally speaking, for most people, it's no different than being sucked into a good book.
And at the end of the book, you close the book.
At the end of your television show, you close your laptop or whatever it is that you're watching on, and you return to the real world.
We don't think that that's a huge problem.
What benefit is there?
A huge benefit that impacts everyone in society in in an enormous way: access to information.
It means that the government no longer controls the information that we know.
It means that traditional media sources can no longer tell us things and expect us to believe them and buy into their biases.
It means that we have more information on every topic in the world, and that makes us better people and better citizens.
We think that that impact, that positive impact, outweighs any possible harms brought to us on the side of the government, that are very small harms, and many of their harms are irrelevant to being to the issue of the internet anyways.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.