Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the motion we should ban media conglomerates and what we say on the side of the opposition is that the government is trying to kill the american dream.
They're trying to legislate that you can't play the free market and buy up smaller businesses.
We heard that it's unfair to small media stations that media conglomerates have too much power over what we watch, what we read, what we hear, and that it and that therefore it can create culture.
Into this we have a number of responses.
First of all, we say that the free market allows people to buy and sell goods at the prices they feel reflect the value of those goods.
Media conglomerates are successful because the cost of running media outlets has become extremely high and smaller outlets have trouble adapting to the changes in the media world and the conglomerates offer them worthwhile compensation for handing over the name of their outlet, their audience, their readership, etcetera.
We think ladies and gentlemen, that without these conglomerates many of these smaller outlets would have been driven to bankruptcy anyways.
The government is here denying these people money and fair compensation in the name of what?
In the name of breaking up a conglomerate for what reason?
We think ladies and gentlemen, that this is an unfair an unfair intervention in the free market.
We think that the cost of running media stations has become extremely high, you need to adapt to the new online world, and a lot of stations, a lot of outlets simply cannot keep up.
We'd rather them get fair compensation for their audience that they've accrued up until now, for the name that they've built rather than being driven to bankruptcy.
Second of all, we say there is no monopoly today and that's the red line not a minute before that.
That's the only time we intervene in the free market, not before.
Today there are six major conglomerates that own ninety percent of the media in america, not one but six.
We realize that it might not be ideal for everyone.
We realize that it sounds like a small number but the fact is that it's not a monopoly.
It means that a diversity of opinion still exists and that competition exists.
So why would you ban these media conglomerates?
Third, we say that media conglomerates are not evil overlords trying to brainwash us.
We say that they're trying to make money and even if they have some form of political or social agenda, we say first of all, those agendas are always well known.
People can always choose whether or not to consume any specific type of media and it's easy to find out who owns what.
People know who owns fox news.
People know what their political leaning is and that doesn't affect the fact that that doesn't create a culture, it doesn't mean that all americans are now captive audiences of fox news and they have to believe in the political agenda that they that they put forward, right?
People know that they have a specific bias.
They know that they have a certain leaning towards a certain side of the political map the same as you know CNN or or any of these and other channels.
We think the people know who media media outlets belong to and it's very easy to access this information.
So we don't understand why this is a problem.
We also think that these media stations, even if they have some form of agenda, they're always going to balance that agenda with what people want to hear and what people need to hear.
The media is much more a reflection of society than anything else, right?
So it's very trendy to look at wealthy, successful people and assume that they're doing something wrong, assume that they're evil, assume that they're trying to brainwash us and and you know tell us what to think but it's unfair and it's untrue.
The fact is that the criteria for market intervention is when there's a monopoly and not before.
This doesn't meet the criteria of when we intervene in the free market.
We don't think that there's a need.
We think there's still enough diversity.
We think that where bias exists it's easily accessible to the people to find out what that bias is and people can always choose to turn off a certain media outlet, to not consume specific information from that media outlet if it doesn't suit their needs.
We think that the media does give people what they want and we think that that's important and that there is diversity even within each media conglomerate in terms of the opinions and views that they bring forward.
We don't see a problem.
We don't think that this meets the criteria for market intervention.
Thank you very much.