Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the government on the motion child labor should be legalized.
Now we say first of all, in most western democratic countries we have provisions that allow for minors to work some amount, right?
So I had a paper route when I was twelve and it was legal because working a few hours a week would not interfere with my education, it would allow me to gain experience, you know learn about responsibility, banking, saving money, work ethic, etcetera.
We applaud youth who are driven to make some money on weekends or school holidays.
We encourage the entrepreneurial spirit and we applaud the laws that exist in place to make sure that children can gain a small amount of that kind of experience and that makes the money without it leading to exploitation.
But we do need to balance those desires very carefully with protecting our children.
We need to protect their right to education.
We need to protect them from exploitation.
Allowing children to be employed for more than a minimal amount of hours a week puts them at high risk for exploitation, it denies them the right to education, and it denies them opportunities in life and and and makes them stuck in this situation of poverty.
So we say that there are two main groups of children who would be lured by employment in modern society where where today child labor laws child labor is illegal and we would be legalizing it.
First of all, we say those who have difficulties at school, right?
We think it's extremely dangerous to allow these children to work instead of study.
We think that it's important for us to change our education system and adapt it towards these children to better suit these kids instead of giving them an alternative to being educated.
We think that all the dangers of not having an education are like apply here.
We think that allowing people to get out of being educated because the school system doesn't suit them today is very problematic and we need to find ways to suit the the education system to children who don't fit into the the you know like the sit in your seat all day and be force-fed information.
Second of all, we think and here's the major group, right are like poor families and poor kids and this is the classic case of child labor as it exists around the world today and as it existed in the past in our society as well.
Families that need money, children feel obligated to contribute to their families and their families often also push them into contributing.
We think that the government needs to protect these children's right to education.
These are exactly the children who are exploited by their employees not just now by their employers not just now but forever after well into adulthood because they didn't have the opportunity to learn and develop skills that grant them the ability to get better jobs and to demand better wages and to demand better working conditions.
We think that this cements these kids at the bottom of the food chain and the government needs to protect them, right?
We think and the way to protect them is to make sure that families that can't afford like that are in the position that they would ask their children or force their children into child labor get welfare.
That's what welfare is for.
We need to increase the amount of welfare that these families get so that they can allow themselves to send their children to get an education and those children who are educated the more time that and effort they can put into their education as opposed to working to support their family, that will give them better opportunities in life and allow them to pull themselves and their families out of the cycle of poverty.
But finally, we think that schools are more than just a place to teach information, right?
It's a place to get an education, right, to form social norms in a regulated environment.
This is important for kids.
It's important for them to grow up with teachers who are watching their behavior and can help them learn how to deal with things like stress, with things like being bullied, right?
We think that when you have child labor like when when child labor is allowed and you put kids into the workplace nobody's looking out for them, nobody's looking to their social and behavioral development and that's very dangerous.
We've reached a point in our society where this is something that we care greatly about and that's a good thing.
We should not go back to a place where children are allowed to throw away their education and their opportunities in life.
Thank you.