The government seems very scared of the future.
They seem very scared by things that seem very odd to us.
We don't understand why they're so scared of GMOs and we think, in fact, that there are great benefits to these genetically modified crops, and that's why we should definitely support them and allow that to continue to sell them.
Let's just go briefly over what yaar spoke about in his first speech.
First of all, he said we just don't know enough yet.
The studies are all biased.
There are two countries in the world that refuse to buy them because somebody told them not to buy them, maybe just, you know, like people who are scared of the government and they're just caving, but who knows?
And even if all the science were on the side of GMOs which, by the way, it is, it's still not good enough for us because they have not been they have not been studied for long enough.
Well, when will it be long enough?
When will it be okay to put genetically modified crops on the market?
Because we say, ladies and gentlemen, two things: one is that science is entirely on the side of genetically modified crops being incredibly safe and two, ladies and gentleman, that science has gotten to a place where we don't need to wait decades and decades, generations and generations, before introducing new technologies and new science.
We can test it sooner than that, and we can keep an eye on it as we do in the field of genetically modified crops, because we do realize that people are scared, and so every new product that comes out to the market is highly regulated.
We think that that is more than enough to say that it is safe.
Second of all, this is I mean it makes us laugh a little bit this demand that everything be, you know, like incredibly tested for years and years before it can enter the market because , you know, like most americans eat at mcdonalds every day.
Most americans eat highly processed breakfast cereals that are packed full of sugar but hey, add a few vitamins to those and we consider it okay.
Enrich a tomato with a few extra nutrients and make it shelf stable so that it can reach rural africa and oh well, no, no, no, we couldn't possibly allow that on the market.
So we think that there's also a little bit of a hypocrisy in terms of what's allowed on the market and what's not.
Like it seems strange that you would allow highly processed foods onto the market that are shown to cause a lot of health problems, whereas these foods are scientifically proven to be safe and you're not allowing them on the market.
Then we have this idea of: well, labeling is not enough.
First of all, we think we shouldn't really have to label it but we will, because, you know, people should be allowed to choose and if they really care about this, then fine.
But second of all, like the logic of it harms the poor people.
Even if we totally agreed with the government's case that there were problems with it, like we're not harming poor people here, all we're doing is giving them more choices.
Because either they can only choose the more expensive choice or they can choose the more expensive choice versus the cheaper choice, and they can choose to keep paying the expensive prices or they can choose to pay for safer and cheaper genetically modified foods.
What is so great about genetically modified crops?
What are the benefits to them?
Let's go on to our side of the case.
First of all, you can use far less pesticides, right?
Pesticides are poisonous, they do pose harms.
They're something that we try to rid from our diets.
We have to wash off vegetables today that we that we grow, wash off fruit, they the and even that doesn't do enough.
The pesticides sink into the foods.
We think that this helps solve that problem.
Second of all, you can modify foods to do things like reduce hunger, increase economic gain, and increase health.
You can add vitamins and nutrients to foods.
You can create products that ship better and last longer.
So you can create square fruits instead of round, so that they ship in a more economical way, and they can cost less and you can get more to your destination.
You can make shelf-stable foods so that even if it takes three weeks in on an open wagon to get to rural sub-saharan africa, it won't spoil as quickly.
We think that it's great for farmers because you can grow crops all year round, and you can have more weather resistant crops.
These are all things that are wonderful for the market, especially since they're deemed safe, right?
Not natural is is a wonderful thing.
It is not it is natural for us to utilize nature to enhance nature to benefit us, ladies and gentlemen.