The government unfairly cherry-picked the most problematic standardized tests that exist today and says, " aha, there are problems with it, and therefore we should abolish them all. "
And we think, ladies and gentlemen, that they have not that they have not proven that they have not fulfilled their burden of proof today in showing us what all standardized testing should be abolished.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an important place for standardized testing in our education system.
We think that there are lots of benefits to creativity in the classroom, but you can't collate data or rank students for, for example, evaluate them for university based on book reports that are presented in the form of interpretive dance, for example.
We think that that's the kind of creativity that should be allowed in the classroom setting, it should be encouraged in many places in the classroom setting.
We think that creativity is great.
We think that thinking of different ways to allow students to express themselves and to express the knowledge that they've gained is wonderful, but we think that there's also a place for standardized testing.
Why?
First of all, we think that we need the data to compare national, and even international, standards of learning, especially in subjects such as math and and sciences, where there are answers that are quite clear-cut and where we need to know who knows this knowledge and who doesn't know this knowledge.
We think that when you see a broad picture, it helps us pick out where the weakest schools are, where the weakest school districts are, the states or countries that are at the bottom of the list or nearing the bottom of the list or at the top, so that we can help by increasing funding to teachers, by modifying teaching methods, and other sorts of assistance that we can give these places.
So, for example, when we look to standardized testing, when you see consistently from international standardized testing over the years that specific countries have the absolute best results, we think that you can look to those countries and learn from them and say, " what can we do?
What can we take from their school systems to make ours better? "
We think that there's value in that and the only way to collate that information, be able to then turn to the best school systems and the best learning systems, is to have some form of standardized testing as we think that there is great importance to it in terms of benefiting the weaker schools.
We thin, second of all, that standardized testing often often does helped to to pick out those students who excel and the students who need more attention and assistance.
We think that even if it's only at a schoolwide level or a school district level or a national level, we think that when you have periodic standardized testing in, you know, once every two years or or or or, you know, different countries it's in different times every two years, every three years in certain grades, we think that that allows teachers to pick up on the students who do have trouble with testing and we think, ladies and gentleman, that it's unfair and it's and it's a little bit naive and irresponsible of the government to say, " well, this just isn't an important skill to have. "
It actually is an important skill.
It's not the most important skill, but test taking is an important skill to have in life.
We think that hard work, learning how to work a system and being able to sit down with a piece of paper and and tick off the right box, we think that that is a skill that often comes up in the workplace, that often comes up throughout our lives, and we think that when we can when when teachers have a way of picking up on the students who have trouble with it, then they can assist those students and they can give them the special attention that they need, and they can refer them for the testing that they need in order to get special allowances, which is also something that we encourage, right?
So we think that that it's that we can pick up on the students who need that extra help.
So we do think that learning difficulties should obviously be accommodated with special tools such as oral exams, extra time.
Those are things that help certain people, but how do you know who needs those that assistance?
Only through standardized testing to begin with.
So we also think evaluation is important.
You need some form of metric to categorize and rank even if we also look at other metrics, which should be encouraged.
But you can't say that universities should just choose based on other methods.
What are they basing it on, right?
Government hasn't given us a a a real concrete alternative.
You can't just say that universities should ignore ranking and then what are they basing their answers on and that is why we do not think that standardized testing should be abolished.