The government has told us that ADHD management brings more good than harm.
We think that that might be the case if ADHD were properly diagnosed in very small numbers of people and if the types of management that is being prescribed were actually studied and we knew the long-term effects of those studies, but we don't.
We think, on the side of the opposition, that there are three major harms that we need to deal with and discuss: first of all, the harms of being diagnosed with ADHD for those children, and they're very young children, second of all, the harms of being treated with with ADHD medication, and third, the harms to those children around those the ones who don't have ADHD and the harms to them.
Let's talk about being a child as young as four, or five, or six years old and being diagnosed with ADHD.
First of all, you are labeling these children at a very, very young age.
That harms them, and that harms the society around them when we have so many children who are diagnosed and labeled at such a young age.
It says far more about the problematic nature of our school structures than about the children themselves, right?
But once these people are diagnosed, they're labeled forever.
These are children who now feel different from the rest of society.
They are treated differently by their teachers, by their parents, and by their peers, from the young age of four, five, six years old.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that if there're such great numbers of children who have this type of propensity toward certain kinds of behavior, we think that we need to adjust our expectations of children, and the way that we treat them in schools, and the expectations that we have of them in schools, rather than than change our children's behavior.
For example, the fact that that ADHD is diagnosed much more in boys than it is in girls perhaps that's indicative of something that is that is in the nature of certain humans.
We think that it's very problematic to label the children as as as having a problem, as opposed to labeling our expectations of them as being problematic.
We think that schools that expect children to sit through lessons for eight hours a day, that is an expectation that we never had decades ago, and that is something that is contributing to this problem.
Those are expectations that we should not have of four year olds, five year olds, and six year olds.
Those are expectations that set them up for failure and set them up to being labeled at a very young age, and that label follows them throughout life, makes it more difficult for them to get into universities, makes it more difficult for them to have jobs, and it means that they feel like failures from the beginning, which affects their their abilities as well.
Let's talk about the harms of being treated with medication that simply hasn't been tested properly.
We lack long-term studies on the effects of the medications that are used to treat ADHD.
Some of them are only tested for being used for the length of like four months or or or a few months.
That's not good enough when we're treating children long term, for years and years.
Some of them are only tested on older on on older children, but that's not good enough when we're using these medications on children who are who are being diagnosed as early as four, five, six years old.
We think that we don't know about the dangers of addiction, we don't know the dangers of being a a drug-dependent society, we don't know the dangers involved with the specific medications and what harms they could cause these individuals.
And then we have the harm of to those without ADHD, those around them, right?
We think that this is the problem of overdiagnosis.
The minute we have an easy solution to deal with hyperactivity, we think it's very easy to diagnose too many children with hyperactivity, and this is a well-known problem, especially in america.
Too many children are being diagnosed even though they don't have the condition, because it's easy to control their behavior and make them sit down in classes and be quiet so that it's easier for their teachers.
Change our expectations, don't change our children.
Thank you very much.