It's always interesting to hear speeches by governments, grandiose speeches about why a particular policy or a particular industry or field is harming poor people and therefore we should stop it.
Okay.
And then what?
And then what happens to these unskilled workers who can't get a job?
What happens to these unskilled workers who aren't going to be offered a long term contract, because they don't have a resume today?
Because without temporary jobs, without anything on their resume, because when you don't give them any starting point, they're not gonna have any way to enter the field.
They're not gonna have any way to impress a boss, even if they're only there for three months.
They're not gonna have any kind of contract, they're not gonna have any money to plan for.
Yes, it's difficult to plan for the week or to plan for the month when you're not always sure what hours you're gonna be working and how much when you're going to be bringing in, but at least you can rely on the fact that you're probably going to be bringing in some amounts of money.
And in many situations, with the the type the people that we're talking about, the under uneducated people with low skills, these are exactly the kinds of people who can't always pick and choose.
Who can't say: " well, you know, the temp agency isn't treating me well so I'm going to leave the job. "
The fact is that if it was so terrible, if the temp agencies were worse than not having a job, then these people would leave.
If there was any other option for them, then they would leave these temp agencies.
But the government doesn't solve any problems.
They simply create a worse situation for the unskilled workers they're they claim to be trying to help.
You say it's a band aid solution to poverty, but what is your solution?
These are not people who would get employment elsewhere.
The long term contracts that you talk about, such as for seasonal workers, it can harm these people.
You can't possibly advance when you're locked into a contract even though you're missing five months of the year, even though you're missing a lot more than that.
It's ridiculous to think that that would be the case.
What we're gonna talk about is the temporary workers who actually need the jobs and why it's important for them and for the industries have temporary positions available.
The type of people who work at temporary agencies are people who either need flexible hours and join only on the condition of having those flexible hours, such a single parents for example, or students, people who can't get jobs otherwise, people who just have no skills that they can list on a resume, who have no education to speak of and absolutely have to make money in order to survive and in order to provide for their families, and the type of people who are trying to gain experience, trying to gain a foothold.
Going into a place, and they're willing to take that opportunity and try and impress their boss, try and impress their supervisors at their job.
And we think, ladies and gentlemen, the for these people it's extremely important that temporary work become available, is still available.
We also think, ladies and gentlemen, that it's that there's huge harm to the companies that use these temp agencies.
We think there's a reason that you would use a a temp as opposed to long term contract, for example when you're trying to fill in a position for somebody who's on maternity leave or somebody who's on sick leave, and you need somebody to fill the position, but you don't have the time to to recruit, to interview, to train, etcetera, somebody.
So you pay somebody to quickly fill in the position.
Sometimes you are impressed and sometimes it does lead to long term positions, but often this is simply a place where you really only need somebody temporary.
Why should we stop the marketplace and ban an entire industry and an entire field when we could simply regulate it to make sure that abuses become much more minimal and and hopefully disappear altogether?
You can make sure that there's a minimum wage in place, that they're being paid.
You can make sure that they have certain benefits in place if they're working for for a temp agency over a long period of time.
Why can we not fixed the problem instead of simply doing away with the entire system?
It makes no sense.
These are people who need to be employed, these are people whose only opportunity and only options to be employed is through this temp agencies.
We should help them not hurt them.