The government here is saying two things.
First, that the social security system today is ineffective and being run badly and second of all that it's wiser to just allow people to invest their money however they want and tax the wise investments enough to be able to then support everyone in their old age and we say, ladies and gentlemen, that that kind of thinking is a little bit ridiculous and a little bit unrealistic and that's why we need the social security taxes even if it is not as effective as it could be.
But here's what we say.
First of all, this idea of a regressive system if it is true that it is a regressive system, is if it is true that there are problems in the way the money is being given back out to the people and people are not being given money properly reflective of what they put into the system that is something that can be that can be fixed.
We think it is important to reevaluate the system every once in awhile and make sure that we're doing the best job that we can at giving people back appropriate amounts in relation to the investment that was made but what we don't think, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can say well it's unsustainable or we should just allow people to deal with it themselves without recognizing the dire consequences that there are if we do such a thing.
Why?
First of all, we think that there is a problem with the social security system.
We do think that there's a problem sustainability that that we need to look at and we need to fix the way we do things in order to make a better system but it's not as problematic as having to completely support entire generations because they won't have anything at all because what the government is saying is well let's let let let people decide themselves how to invest their money and then will there will be enough in tax dollars to support everyone but that's simply not what's going to happen.
When you allow people to do that here's what happens.
First of all, you have people who are making excessive amounts of money, large amounts of money, and can invest some of their money and want to invest some of their money.
They will be driven to to investments offshore, to untaxed accounts in places like the cayman islands and other and and other places.
Why?
Because they don't want to have to support an entire generation of people that didn't make as much money as them.
Second of all, you you're driving money into poor short term decisions.
You're telling people right if you don't if it's not mandatory for people to invest in their future, they're not going to do it.
They're going to be investing in vacations, they're going to be investing in fancy cars, they're going to be investing in status symbols and other luxuries that they can afford today rather than investing smartly in their future.
Why?
For two reasons.
One is because people are poor planners.
We simply don't think ahead.
That's one reason why it needs to be mandatory because people simply don't take that initiative because they think that they'll have enough because they think that they'll make more later on down the line.
Well we'll take a vacation this year and we'll start saving next year but when you say that again and again, ladies and gentlemen, it becomes a problem and second of all, because nobody wants to be the patsy.
Nobody wants to be the one who makes the wise investment decision and is then taxed up the wazoo to in support people who made poor investment decisions.
I'd rather spend the money today, enjoy my money today, and let somebody else take care of me and that's when you get into trouble, ladies and gentlemen.
That is exactly where unsustainability becomes an even bigger problem without the social security system.
We think that there are problems with social security taxes today.
We think that we should be re-evaluating how it is being redistributed.
We think that we need to re-evaluate how to make it more and more sustainable.
We think that those are very important things that need to be done and need to be done soon but we think that it is far more unsustainable, we think it is far less helpful to abolish the social security tax.
We think that canceling it, means that more people are put at risk.
We think that when you say well people who make good decisions will be the ones to carry everybody else, nobody wants to be the one to make the decisions.
They will either move their money out of the country or they won't invest it wisely.
They'll invest it in short term ventures that they can that they can enjoy with their families today and not tomorrow.
We think those are far bigger problems than the ones we have today and that's why we should not cancel the social security tax.