The social security tax is a federal payroll tax imposed on employees and employers to fund social security and medicare.
We believe, on the side of the government, that social security tax is a tool of a nanny state.
It should be canceled in favor of allowing citizens full control over their future investments in current money funds.
So we have three main points that we're going to discuss.
First is the need for funds in the present, the second is the right to determine future investments and the third is the government versus the alternatives that exist.
So let's look at the need for funds in the present.
Governments like to discuss the need for long term thinking.
But they tend to ignore certain short term needs of their citizens.
Governments tend to think in blocks.
There's the upper middle class, the middle the upper class, the middle class and the lower class.
Or there's different earning brackets.
But the fact is that real people don't necessarily fit into these blocks.
Real people, real citizens have pressing individualized needs.
Governments today are effectively cutting our earning power.
They are taking money out of our pockets and they're saying we're going to invest it for you because we know what you need better.
But there are people out there who have pressing needs.
They have to fix their car, they have to fix their washing machine, they have to pay for their parents' for the parents' retirement home because social security doesn't cover the cost of certain of certain measures.
There are lots of costs that need to be met today, that need to be paid today.
When the government takes money and says we're putting it away for your future but doesn't allow us to live in the present, we think that that's a problem.
We think that there are times where the present takes precedence over long term thinking and long term investments.
Second of all we think that the right to determine future investments must lie in the hand of citizens.
Government investment strategies are not necessarily the same as the investment strategies that many citizens would choose to employ.
There are different risk levels.
There's high risk, moderate risk, low risk.
The government shouldn't be able to choose for us how our money is being invested when it's supposed to be coming back to us in the future.
We want to be able to choose what it is we invest in.
And, as I mentioned previously, we want to choose when we invest.
There are times where I can invest more money and there are times when I have to invest less because I have pressing needs that need to be met.
We don't think that the government should be the ones determining our future investments.
What kind of risk we're taking, what kind of investment strategies to employ, we think that that needs to be done by citizens.
So even if the government had convinced everyone that it's important to invest in their future, they should still allow people to choose their own investments.
More over we think that the body that is investing our money, that is taking our hard earned money and investing it towards our future and supposed to be giving it back to us in the end, supposed to be giving it back to us in the form of retirement funds and and medicare and healthcare down the line.
We think that those bodies should be strictly regulated by governments, but the company can't regulate itself.
We think that that is also an inherent problem.
We think who is it is who's going to regulate the government if the government says actually we're out of money or changing the terms of what we promised you.
We don't think that it's an effective way, we don't think it's a safe way.
We don't think it's a fair way to determine future investments.
Third of all we're going to talk about the government versus alternatives.
The government, let's face it, is absolutely incompetent and ineffective at handling cash.
They bleed cash to bureaucratic processes.
Money goes into the system and less money comes out.
Because it just gets lost in the bureaucracy, in the number of people that need to get paid, in the convoluted ways that the government works.
We all know that social security is already running out of money.
So why do we keep investing in it?
Why do we keep allowing our government to take money, to tax us and to invest it poorly and we're at risk of not getting it back in the end?
We think that they can incentivize saving plans, we think that they can incentivize things like healthcare and that would be a much more effective way of allowing us control over our future.
Thank you