Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the motion women in combat bring more good than harm.
We recognize on the side of the opposition that talking about gender differences is not considered politically correct.
It's a difficult field to navigate.
In fact, in a motion about combat one could say that debating this motion is much like navigating a mine field.
We will upset some people with our opinions.
That said, we on the opposition feel that we need to differentiate between an ideal world from reality.
We think that the government is dealing in ideal worlds and we deal in reality on our side of the debate.
The military is not the place to institute social change.
The government spoke to us with the assumption that the world is ideal, that people don't see gender or at least not as they once did.
That's simply not true.
Let's look at the reality and see what will happen if women when women enter combat and why there are more harms than good.
First of all, we think that we need to recognize the fact that women in combat will always be a minority.
Why is this important?
The government talks to us about many benefits that can occur when women are included are when women are put into these units and and can make changes, right?
That changes occur once women belong to these units.
But what we think is that the government benefits are very unlikely to occur because women in combat situations are unlikely to occur even when it's legal, even when it happens, even when like it's okay for it to happen.
We see that in like the israeli army, we see it in the united states army.
We see that where women are allowed to be in combat units, the fact that they're allowed to be there does not mean that many women are there.
They're both physically and emotionally often incapable of belonging to these units.
We don't think that that's necessarily a bad thing.
This is not passing judgment on women.
We think it's simply the way they that it is that women, for example, tend to have less physical strength than men and they often don't want to be in these units and because of that, because women will always be a minority in these units, the benefits that the government talks about simply won't occur because there aren't enough women to make those changes.
It won't be fifty percent women and you know like an ideal tomorrow where everything where where women can you know are in charge of these units and make changes.
We think it's always going to be an individual woman here or there in specific units and that means, ladies and gentlemen, that because it's always going to be a small number of women, we think that that means that there's higher risk both within the units and from the enemies and we think that these are important risks to talk about.
We think that with that that the risk from the enemy is fairly obvious.
We think that it's easier that that a lot of the enemies are want to target women like if they can.
If there are women in these units they target them and that means they're very high risk for being raped.
This is something that puts the entire unit at risk because the entire unit is then trying to make sure that this specific soldier is not being kidnapped.
We think that that's unfair to the rest of the unit but we think that within our own units there's also a problem that there's higher risk.
We know that there's that there's issues with sexual harassment in the army.
We know that this occurs.
We think it becomes far worse when you're in a combat unit in the middle of god knows where, in the middle of afghanistan or iraq or wherever it is and you're sharing you know outdoor toilets and there's no showers and there's one woman sleeping in a tent with with twenty guys.
We think that the problems become much worse for this woman.
We think that that only brings harm.
It brings discord in the unit between men, between women.
We think that it's a not a good situation for these units to be in.
We think that the fact that not enough women will ever be in these units leads us to the have to acknowledge the fact that women in combat brings more harm than it brings good both within the unit and from the enemy.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.