Ladies and gentleman, we've heard from the government on the issue that we should end the use of solitary confinement.
We, on the opposition, obviously don't support using it willy nilly.
We don't think that it's a that it's an ideal solution.
We don't think that it's something that we should be applauding ourselves for using.
We do think that it's a necessary tool to have in our arsenal when dealing with prisoners and, especially, violent prisoners, who have proven themselves, time and again, to be violent or to have or or other reasons that we'll talk about.
We think that it's sometimes necessary to use.
We realize that this is a very delicate issue to discuss.
No one wants to use this method of containment.
We also agree that it should be very closely regulated and only used when absolutely necessary.
We would stipulate that we agree with the government that prisons need to be very closely regulated, but we think it needs to be an option.
We think it needs to be an option for two types of people.
We need to use it as a measure of protection for specific individuals who are at risk for being hurt by other prisoners, and we need to use it as a measure of protection for all the other inmates when there's a particularly violent criminal who poses a threat to the lives of the other inmates and also a threat of socialization, and we'll discuss both of these.
So, first of all, we have two types of prisoners who sometimes need protection, right?
We ask the government what would they do with a prisoner who repeatedly tries to shiv other prisoners?
What would they do with a prisoner who repeatedly tries to harm, maim, and kill other prisoners or even guards in their prison?
There needs to be a way to deal with this and, obviously, simply having them in prison isn't enough.
We think that it's not fair to the rest of the prisoners to have this kind of person loose in a prison.
The fact that you are in prison and being punished for a crime that you committed does not mean that your life is now , you know, like blowing in the wind and nobody cares.
We need to care about the lives of the other inmates, and that means that sometimes we need to take the most dangerous of the criminals and place them in solitary confinement so that everyone else has as much freedom and rights as possible.
We think that it's important for other, like less violent criminals to be able to have that freedom within the prison walls, right, to socialize amongst themselves, to play games, to watch television, to , you know, take workshops and whatever it is that the prisons offer.
We think that when you add to the mix somebody so violent that they repeatedly try to harm other prisoners that affects the rest of the prisoners.
We think it's dangerous for them to even socialize with this person because it makes them more likely to have violent tendencies like this person.
We think that we need a tool to be able to deal with them, and solitary confinement, even if it's for a small amount of time to show them that this punishment exists, we think that that is a necessary tool for us to keep in our arsenal.
We also think that there are some people who simply need protection for themselves.
We think that these are people who tend to be very violent criminals and have done something on the outside that makes them targets on the inside, be it members of criminal of of organized crime family who are at risk for being harmed by other prison inmates, be it sexual offenders, particularly those who have offended against children, they tend to be targets among their fellow prisoners because other people are so, even prisoners even those who have killed and and and done other, you know, bad things that we put them into jail for, even they are so morally offended by the crime that was committed by this person that we that we need to protect them from other prisoners.
We think that we need this tool.
We think that it should be only used in very specific situations that we've outlined, and we think that that is very much the case today.
So we think that we need to be able to use solitary confinement in order to protect certain prisoners, either from other people attacking them or or or protect prisoners from being attacked by that person.
Thank you very much.