Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the government on the topic, we should fight environmental degradation.
We, on the opposition, have two main questions that directly refute the ideas coming out of the government.
We ask the question, first, is the situation truly as bad as the government has asserted?
And second of all, when we talk about fighting environmental degradation, who do we target and are those targets fair targets?
So let's move to the first question: is the situation today quite as bad as the government assert?
We know that it's very unfashionable to speak about the changes in the environment as anything but catastrophic.
However, we need to realize that more and more scientists are coming out with much less with a much less worrisome picture of the environmental changes.
Many of these changes are natural and have been slowly happening over the course of millions of years, long before humans entered the picture.
This means that we cannot stop the process, and it's not necessarily even wise to try and do so.
The earth has been self-correcting for long before humans have gotten here.
There have been ice ages, there have been other disastrous environmental changes, but the earth has survived.
We don't necessarily know how to help it correct course properly, the earth does know what to do.
We don't think that we need to be fighting these changes, we just think that we need to prepare ourselves for the changes and how they're going to affect us.
But let's look for a minute in terms of what does fighting these changes actually mean?
Let's assume for a minute that we should get involved and we should try and stop the change some of these changes from happening.
When the government talks about fighting environmental changes, environmental degradation, what they're talking about is imposing severe laws that will restrict production in economic development.
Where does most of the pollution in the world come from?
First of all, it comes from the developing world, not the developed world, and second of all, it comes from factories that mass produce.
So let's look, first of all, to the developing world.
We say that we, in the west, have already moved beyond the industrial revolution to the point where we outsource most of our polluting industries to the to to developing countries, and we have amassed great amounts of wealth and education in order to be able to access those products access more expensive products.
We think that, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely unfair of us to tell the developing world that they need to stop their progression simply because we are finished polluting in our world, because we've sent all the pollution there.
We think that we need to allow the developing world the same opportunities that we had.
And that means going through a phase in which pollution is a problem in those worlds, so that they can go through their own industrial revolution and they can start contributing beyond industries that pollute, so that we have more education so that they can amass wealth as well, and then we can all move as as an entire world beyond the stage where we need these dirty technologies, right?
We have more people contributing to developing clean technologies, but also more education means more access to goods, which means a better quality of life.
That means more educated individuals who can help in the future, can help fighting in better ways, like can help understand the changes in the environment.
But the factories that mass that mass produce, these factories have actually driven down the cost of products, right?
What that means is that we have a higher quality of life around the globe.
So fighting for long-term environmental issues, that comes at the expense of of the poorest people today, ladies and gentlemen.
When we tell factories that they can no longer pollute, that means that costs of goods costs of products rises, and it's the poorest people, usually, in those developing countries, that are hit the hardest.
We think that fighting environmental degradation is a rich man's game, and we don't think that that's fair to the rest of the world.
Thank you very much.