Ladies and gentlemen we've just heard the government speak in favor of subsidizing vocational education.
We heard from the government that this means that there will be more respect for these kinds of workers and we say we agree that respect for people in all different types of jobs is important but this can happen without subsidizing vocational education.
In fact, we think that later on in in my speech I will be proving that subsidizing vocational education actually divides society even further along class lines and that means looking down upon those in the trade industry.
We also heard from the government this issue of like that there's a lack of trades people today.
We think ladies and gentlemen, that where there are there is a lack of trades people the free market balances itself out.
Every country sees certain professions or certain industries with short periods of no growth and lack of new employees but they balance themselves out when conditions improve in that industry for for the employees.
That means that like because we will always need bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers, etcetera, if there aren't enough of them we will offer better pay and better working conditions and within a short period of time the market can correct itself.
But what happens when vocational training happens in high schools, as it does in many european countries or trade schools offer subsidized degrees, right?
What happens when we're subsidizing this kind of education?
Who ends up going into vocational education?
We end up reinforcing the gap between the poor and the rich.
Rich people can afford to go to university, they can afford to spend time learning liberal arts degrees, expanding their minds studying for degrees in scientific fields that lead to high paying jobs because they can pay for that degree.
Well those who have to worry about short term finances are going to end up going into vocational training either at the high school level because they know that they have to start working right away after high school to contribute to their families, to their family budgets, or immediately after high school because that's how they're going to get a good paying job right away.
We think that these people are going in because the cost of learning is obviously low when it is subsidized.
We think that this leads to social mobility remaining low because you're artificially attracting people to enter these fields and you stop industries from needing to improve worker conditions such as salaries.
That means that there's a cycle of poverty with poorer families working as tradesmen generation after generation and wealthier families going into more lucrative fields.
We think that you perpetuate the wealth gap and limit social mobility.
We think that it's important to remember that that conditions need to improve and the way the conditions improve is by people deciding not to go into them when conditions are bad.
So we think that if there is a lack of tradespeople, the market needs to correct itself.
It's important that we don't interfere in the market at this point because if we interfere we actually make it worse for the people who end up going into the industry.
It means ladies and gentlemen, that people who decide to become carpenters, that people who decide to work in these in these fields, in the construction field, etcetera, they end up having worse conditions because they were lured in because there's an influx in that market and people who employ them don't need to raise wages.
That means that they're stuck in a cycle of poverty.
Their children are likely to also be in the situation where they need to choose vocational training and don't have the choice of going into other other types of of of work fields.
We think that this is an unfair thing to do.
We think that you prevent these people from bettering their lives, from getting better wages, from getting better working conditions.
We think that when you allow the free market to work properly you will always attract people into all fields that are necessary in our society.
We don't think that lacking that the lack in trades people will ever exist for longer than short periods of time and the market will correct itself.
For these reasons, we oppose.
Thank you.