Ladies and gentlemen, we stand firmly opposed to subsidizing smoking cessation.
The government tells us that we as a government have a duty to protect our citizens and that it's also financially smart because of health care savings.
We have two answers to that.
Let's discuss, first, finances.
We don't think that finances are particularly important in this debate but we'll answer it anyways.
We think that it's not particularly popular to say so, but the fact is that tobacco taxes easily cover the cost of caring for the smokers who do develop health issues from smoking tobacco.
We don't think that finances is the most important argument in this debate.
But if you're going to try and bring it up, then at least recognize the fact that, today, finances is not an issue, because taxation is so high, we manage to recoup our costs and more.
But we think the more important question here is whether or not governments do have a duty.
We say the following: freedom of choice comes with costs.
When we allow people to make decisions for themselves, we assume and we make sure that these people are making are are free people, making rational decisions, free decisions, that they are armed with the knowledge of the consequences that follow with through with that decision.
We think that when you allow people to make decisions, which is an important part and an important cornerstone of our democracy, you also allow them to make bad decisions.
We think that smoking is often a bad decision.
We don't think it necessarily is, there could be benefits, but that's a different debate.
We think that when you allow people to make their own decisions, you allow them to also make bad decisions, but then they are responsible for the consequences of that decision, and we think that that's okay.
We think that it's okay for people to make bad decisions as like when they are aware of the consequences, which everyone in our modern society is, and when they are aware of what they will have to do to stop smoking, which they are in modern society.
We also think, ladies and gentlemen, that governments are simply not good at providing the services needed to stop smoking or services of this type altogether.
So why is government particularly not good at doing this?
We think that when governments offer their own funded programs, these programs almost never work properly, and here's why.
First of all, you have to look to the process of how governments choose the programs that they're going to fund or subsidize, right?
First of all, they're looking for cheap programs, because there's a limited amount of money that they can spend on it and you want to get the most bang for your buck, but like essentially they're looking for cheap.
Like when you have a tender process, you're looking for one of the cheapest solutions, one of the cheapest companies to offer their services.
We think that nepotism is often involved.
So there are too many cases in which we've seen that government tenders tend to go to people with connections to government officials, right?
The brother-in-law of, the the sister of, the whatever of, and we think that like once the process like once a specific company is chosen, there's very little competition in the field, and so it's hard to compare results.
But let's look at that process, right?
Like what happens once this program is funded, okay, even if in theory it was a good choice to make?
Even though a lot of these programs may have measurable criteria for success, governments rarely follow through with actually looking at that data, collecting that data.
They don't check up on progress, they don't monitor the results, and they don't compare success rates to other to other companies.
It's too easy for governments to say, like, " we've made our decision, there are certain measurable criteria that we could look out, " but they don't actually do it.
Governments always drop the ball on these types of programs because they simply don't have the manpower or the will to do it.
And we see that, time and again, in countries across the world.
And if you read state controller reports, you can read about all the programs that look good on paper and projects that look good on paper, but with the follow but there is no follow through in terms of government regulation.
So we think that that's a problem when you have when these programs start underperforming and there is no government oversight.
We think that you end up spending a lot of money on a problem that is not something that the government should be responsible for, and you don't even end up solving that problem.
And for those reasons, we beg to oppose.