Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to oppose on the topic we should increase energy conservation.
The government has told us that the situation is dire.
They've told us that we need to to to change our behavior both inside the home and in the industries that use a lot of that pollute the environment and use a lot of of dirty energy.
We think ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the opposition that environmental causes are a rich man's game.
We think that fighting it is a rich man's fight and it is unfair to pass that cost along to families who simply cannot afford it.
But let's start, ladies and gentleman, by asking the question is the situation even as bad as the government asserts it is when it comes to the need to conserve energy?
We think that it's very unfashionable to speak about any of the environmental changes that are going on or using dirty technology what's what's claimed to be dirty technology.
We think it's it's it's unfashionable to think about to to speak about in society as anything but catastrophic.
However, more and more scientists are coming out with much a much less worrisome picture of the environment.
We think that the earth knows how to self-correct.
We think that the earth has gone through certain periods of ice ages and other types of weather changes that we don't control and thinking that we are at the root of the problem and that we can solve the problem is something that many scientists currently disagree on disagree with.
But let's assume that we do need to make changes.
Let's assume for a minute that certain things need to change.
We have to ask ourselves if energy conservation is something that really is feasible to ask people to do.
We say that we actually need to use energy sources today and we need to we we need to have access to cheap energy sources and that means not conserving energy in the way that the government wants us to.
We think that attempts to conserve disproportionately harm the poorest people in our societies.
So first of all, when it comes to industries changing their practices, we think that everything that is involved in conserving energy that means putting in solar panels, that means using newer cleaner more technology, we think all of that ends up raising costs for consumers.
That means that consumers that the poorest people in society can no longer afford as much as they can afford today.
The cost of products go up when industries are forced to conserve energy.
We think that that cost is passed along to consumers and we think that it's the poorest members of society who end up suffering the most.
But lets look to individuals as well because what the government is telling us is that individuals need to be conserving energy in their own homes.
We say that it's the poorest members of society that are hurt here as well.
They're the ones who work longer hours and that means when they're home it's dark outside and they do need to use energy.
They need to be able to turn on their lights and have family time.
They need to be able to cook in the evenings when energy is at tends to be at the highest consumption levels and the government is telling us that we need to pare down on that.
We think that they need to use their washing machine and heat water for showers, etcetera and we can't tell these families not to do that or not to do that at a certain time of day when there's a lot of when there's more usage going on and government is trying to cut back on that.
We think that these are the people who work the longest hours outside the house and need to come home and have their lights on in the evenings.
We also think that the infrastructure of energy conserving products has an extremely high buying cost.
So you're talking about things like solar panels on the top of your car on the top of your house, electric cars, energy efficient appliances, even simple LED light bulbs.
These can be prohibitive prohibitively expensive when it comes to families that simply can't afford to make these changes and if they're forced to make these changes or if they're pressured into it by society, they simply won't be able to afford things like rent, food or other immediate needs that are obviously more important to them today than conserving energy for the future.
We think ladies and gentlemen, that this is a rich man's fight.
We think that increasing energy conservation is unfair to the poorest members of our society who simply can't afford to do so.
Thank you.