Ladies and gentlemen, we stand in opposition to the case we should abandon brick and mortar companies.
We realize that the lure of online retail is very strong and we agree that there are many benefits in some situations to buying online.
However, we believe that brick and mortar and online retail experiences are not at all mutually exclusive and they both serve their own specific purposes.
The government spoke to us about benefits of online retail and they spoke about the extra costs involved with brick and mortar facilities including the cost of land that could be used for other purposes such as much needed residential areas.
But let's talk about the benefits of brick and mortar that are unique to brick and mortar stores and how they can't be replaced by the online experience and are therefore worth the costs involved that the government spoke about.
So when is it that we will always choose to buy at a brick and mortar store, right?
What are the unique times at which we will say " I I prefer going to a brick and mortar store and more than just prefer I need to go to a brick and mortar store, it's a it's a much better experience or it's the only experience, right, that that I can use at this time ".
So first of all, we say when you need last minute purchases brick and mortar stores are extremely important to have around.
We shouldn't abandon them because it means that they close down and they're not available anymore.
So things like when you need a last minute last minute food for dinner, when you forgot to buy milk for cereal in the morning, when you forgot to make a birthday cake for the school party the next day, coffee spilled on your dress before an interview, you're out of pens on the way to an important meeting, those kinds of purchases the you don't think of the you know two days before when you would need to make an online purchase.
You don't think of it when you're making your big grocery order because you forget specific things and you need the ability to be able to go to a brick and mortar store on your way to work, on your way to school, you know late in the evening when like the you know like the kids are asleep and you need something for the morning, okay?
So that's something that's a unique attribute to the brick and mortar stores that you don't get with online retail services where you know even with express shipping, you're not going to get in the next ten minutes when you actually need it.
Second of all, when you want to check the quality of a product or the fit of a product, whether it's making sure that you get the freshest piece of fish for the for at the supermarket for your dinner or making sure that the dress that you're buying or the shirt you're buying like actually fits you properly, looks as good on you as it looks online, you know like is made well and has like quality stitching and and buttons haven't fallen off, right?
These are things that you wanna that many people want to do before you purchase.
Many people want that validation before they put out money for this product.
So it's true that like with online retail when it comes to clothing you can usually like there there are return policies but that's very difficult for many people.
It's something that people have a psychological aversion to like buying something before you've seen it on you.
It means that you're buying that you're putting out a lot more money.
Like you can't just try things on.
People like to go and try things on at the store and you try on twenty outfits but you're only going to end up buying one of them.
If you have to lay out the money for twenty outfits and then end up returning nineteen of them, that's a huge cost outlay for many people something that they can't afford and we think that that makes shopping a much more difficult experience for people especially for those who don't have the money to spend before they are sure that they want to buy it.
We say third, many people want help from humans, right?
Like when you're trying to choose a new phone or a new computer or a new fridge or whatever appliance it is, there are so many options out there and people want and often need a sales person to explain the differences to them and show the differences to them.
It's not enough to read up online thousands of articles.
You want an expert standing in front of you saying " look, this computer is good for gaming.
You don't need that.
What you need is this version which is good for checking your email and watching the occasional television show ".
Fourth, we think that shopping is often associated is is often a social event, it's associated with friends, it's a it's a parent-child experience, it's an experience beyond the purchase of any specific product and we think that you lose that when you go to when you shift to online retail.
We think that the experience of going to buy a prom dress, for example, is an important cultural experience that you lose under your plan when you abandon brick and mortar.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.