It is true that almost any program where we spend money and let's be honest, that's what the government tends to do, is going to increase taxes and that always hurts the middle class, especially in the short term, and that's an unfortunate fact.
But as the government is so keen to tell us, let's look to the long term and see that with the american jobs act, we get more people being educated, we have more people with jobs, and we have more people with stable jobs, and that's better for a stable economy which benefit which benefits us all in the long term.
So what we think, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have to look at what we're really spending the money on to see why it's such a good idea to have this american jobs act, especially as a short-term, not as a short-term solution, a long-term solution with a by by implementing a short-term program.
What we're spending money on are the following things, okay?
The jobs act does a number of key crucial things and and and here's what it does.
First of all, it ensures that those receiving unemployment benefits are getting adequate funds to provide for themselves and their families.
So it's easy for the government to come and say, " well, if you give them too much, then it's just going to not be worthwhile for them to get a job. "
But first of all, we say that that is simply not true.
Human nature is that most people prefer to have a job, most people prefer to bring home a working wage and not receive government benefits.
We also think that there would be very little very few situations in which your minimum wage would be would be less than what you're making with the with the unemployment benefits.
But why is it important to to make sure that these people are getting adequate funds?
Because the funds that they're getting today are not always adequate for them to go out and find a job.
Because when you're a parent, for example, especially a single parent, and you need to go out and you need to look for jobs and you need to interview for your for jobs or you need to get training for a job, what do you do with your children?
You can't afford daycare, you can't afford a babysitter, you can't afford necessarily to leave them with someone else.
That's the kind of thing that we need to make sure that these people are able to do, that they're able to go out and look for those jobs without worrying about leaving their children with somebody alone with somebody or or or not have the money, the resources to do that.
We can't or what about those people who can't afford to take classes, who can't afford to obtain a degree or certificate that will help them get those jobs?
We think that that's the kind of money that we need to be spending today in the short term in order to ensure that they have long-term perspectives.
Second of all, we think that the american jobs act encourages and assists people in finding jobs and that benefits everyone in the economy.
So we have directly threw the pathways back to work program, which we think is an incredibly important program, to invest and and and indirectly by bettering public learning institutions.
We don't think that the government has properly addressed where is this money going.
It's going to better public learning institutions.
It's going to better public schools and colleges that are open to people and making sure that people have access to the education that they need to get good jobs.
We don't think it's enough to throw money into a high-tech industry when there's an entire strata of class of people in our society who can't access those jobs.
Those jobs are limited to people who have been through top-notch educational institutions.
Not everyone can afford those.
We need to make sure that our institutions that we better our public institutions so that everyone can access all types of jobs.
And also we say that we're spending money on protecting vital jobs, things like teachers, firefighters, police people.
That's not something we can choose to ignore.
We can't choose to put money into high-tech jobs and ignore the fact that that we're losing out on that that that that we don't have enough firefighters or police people to to protect our society.
These are things that we need to be investing money into, and it makes sense for us to take money from the people who have it in small amounts, through taxes, even if it means a small increase in taxes, in order to be able to afford everyone the same these these opportunities and to ensure that those people who today don't have jobs can access those jobs in the future.
Thank you very much.