Medicare, medicaid, free health clinics run as charities, low cost health clinics, clinics such as the ones run by pharmacies, and ER and emergency rooms at hospitals.
These are all available in the united states.
No one is turned away from an emergency room.
Nobody is not treated.
Nobody is many people are covered by medicare and medicaid.
Many people can afford to go to the and of course everyone go to a free health clinic to get checkups.
Not to mention the the availability of private healthcare.
These provide a huge net of health security for the entire population in the united states as a whole.
And as opposed to what the government tries to lead us to believe, even under a private healthcare under a nationalized healthcare system, no one is guaranteed access to all treatments that they may need.
That's simply not possible, it's not realistic, it doesn't happen in any of the nationalized health systems around the world.
There are always going to be drugs that are simply too expensive, that are not included in in the basket of medicines covered by a nationalized health insurance.
So it's easy to demand universal healthcare and say, well how can we deny medical attention to human beings, human rights, human rights, human rights.
But the fact is first of all health care is not being denied.
Certain levels of health care are being denied to certain people who can't afford it and don't fall into medicare and medicaid standards.
That is true.
Being denied by specific doctors of course, but there are other places that fill in that need.
Second of all, health care is not free even if the government provides it, and that is something that the government tends to forget.
Healthcare is not free.
If we universalize healthcare, if we hand it out to everyone, that means that we are taking the money from somewhere and that means rises in taxes.
That means that you're going to pay more taxes on products that you buy, it means you're going to pay more taxes at the end of the day on your salaries, we think that it puts a heavy burden on the entire population and that money is often used, shall we say, unwisely.
By by by bureaucracies run by governments.
We think that a lot of that money will be lost and we we will end up as a nation spending far more money on healthcare than we do today.
But third and most importantly, is that the cost of universal healthcare goes far beyond the monetary value of it, right?
The research and development of drugs and treatments costs more money than we can possibly imagine.
And nationalizing healthcare impacts this industry greatly.
And the problem is that there's going to be far less money and far less incentive to develop new drugs and treatments if we nationalize healthcare.
One of the reasons that countries around the world outside of the united states can afford nationalized healthcare, afford it on a metaphorical level, is because they rely on the drugs and treatment methods developed by the free market in the united states and that develop because of the incentives involved in developing these drugs and treatments in the united states.
So if we introduce universal health care in the united states, in essence we would be denying proper medical treatment to millions of people around the world not only in the united states.
It means that the that the level of care that everyone gets around the world and in the united states is going to be far lower.
We think ladies and gentlemen that it makes more sense to have all the different layers of security that we have in the united states but to still allow a free market to reign.
We think that it makes more sense to encourage and incentivize people and companies to give health care to their to their employees than to have people purchase their own healthcare.
We think that those are good things.
We think that having certain safety nets for people who simply can't afford it is of course important, we do have medicare, we do have medicaid.
It is possible that it's time to tweak the standards and to tweak who has access to it or not.
We think the free health clinics fill a huge need and that there's no problem with relying partially on charities that do this kind of work.
We think that low costs health clinics exist, we think that overall everybody gains more when we have privatized healthcare.
Think you.