Ladies and gentleman, the government has just spoken to us on why we should ban conversion therapy.
They've told us of the dangers involved, the psychological risks, the fact that this kind of therapy doesn't work.
We recognize the dangers that conversion therapy in the inadequacies of conversion therapy brought by the government.
But we say the following: first of all, we're going to talk about the dangers and inadequacies that exist anyways and the fact that this is one way of dealing with life.
Second of all, we're going to talk about freedom of choice and third we're going to talk about the dangers of banning any kind any form of therapy.
So first of all, we say we do recognize that there are some dangers and inadequacies with conversion therapy.
But we also recognize that there are dangers and inadequacies to a person living a life a life that they don't want to live.
We think that the type of person to pursue this course of treatment is usually going to be a religious person and that means that they are in a very unique position, right?
It's easy in some ways, is not easy for anyone, but it's easier for other people, right, for somebody who doesn't have this orthodox background, this religious background, to go into what we would call traditional therapy, regular therapy or whatever it is and and accept their new lives as a homosexual.
We think that in this case we have a unique type of person where accepting themselves as a homosexual just isn't enough.
You can't like they need to reconcile two opposing views.
It's a far more complex situation than for other people and we think that for some people this kind of conversion therapy gives them hope and for some it even works.
It allows them to live a life where they can live with somebody of the opposite sex, for example, and create a family in the type of religious atmosphere that they believe is truly important for them.
Is it psychologically harmful for these people to try and deny themselves a homosexual lifestyle?
Like at this point their existence is is harmful to themselves, right?
There is no magic wand that you can wave and make their lives better or perfect.
There is no ideal for this kind of person who has like a self that is fundamentally different from what they believe should be and the fact is that no therapy is ever guaranteed to work and this is the kind of person this is like the conversion therapy is geared towards people who want to go, who want to go and live a specific kind of lifestyle and want to get rid of of this trait that they have.
We don't think that denying them is a good idea.
We think that like trying to force them into other types of therapy or into simply accepting their sexual self is not going to work in these specific situations.
It's too complex for that.
So let's talk about rational, informed, consenting adults because that's what we have here, right?
That's what we're talking about.
We think that everyone can access information regarding these types of therapies, their outcomes, there dangers, their risks.
We think that if you choose this form of therapy then that's just what it is.
It's a choice that you have made.
We may judge it as a bad choice but first of all again, we think that these are -ly like that these people are very unique and that it's hard for us to judge them in their positions and with their beliefs and second of all, we say that people citizens are allowed to make bad choices in our society.
That's part of democracy.
That's part of being a rational, informed, consenting adult.
Finally, we say that there are that there are very extreme dangers when it comes to banning conversion therapy.
We think that when political correctness overtakes science, that's risky.
What if there what if this is some form of medical condition that can be changed?
We think if you're ban this form of therapy you make it taboo to to even research this kind of like this area of science.
We think that you close the door on on this kind of research.
That smells like censorship in the name of political correctness and we think that that's bad.
We shouldn't censor science.
We shouldn't sensor different types of therapy.
If this is what people want, let us allow them to access this form of therapy because they are the ones who are hurting and they want to try it.
Thank you.