Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the government that we should subsidize charitable organizations, and to this we say, quite simply: we do.
It's called welfare, and it's called charitable tax receipts, and tax credits.
This is the government providing a safety net for the people who are worst off in our society and supporting citizens who independently choose to assist other charitable organizations.
Why is that not enough?
Why should we not subsidize directly?
Let's talk about it.
First of all, let's talk about how we have limited funds, right?
Where does it end?
There's an unlimited number of charities.
If we spend our if we spend our the entire budget of the united states of america on mosquito nets for for african families, we could solve the malaria problem in africa, but that comes at a huge cost to us.
Not just to us, right?
There's the obvious short-term direct cost to our own citizens today who, then, don't get things like welfare, who, then, don't get things like roads, and transportation, and and education, right?
Because you have to like you can rank charities in different ways and say, " well, this is more important, so let's just invest it all in that, " but we also still think that there's long-term costs, right, of having our of harming our economy, which leads to harming our ability to help others in the future.
We think that when you say subsidize charitable organizations, there's no end to the amount that you can do.
And we think that that's a problem when it when it becomes an issue of like where do you stop, where which ones do you do you subsidize, and how much, and what's our moral obligation?
And let's talk about that moral obligation, right?
We say, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has very specific obligations to society.
You enter into a social contract when you form a when you form a country or or a state.
There's a social contract that is entered into between the citizens and the government.
The government does not have to be the most moral the most moral being around.
What they have to do is fulfill their social contract.
It's our responsibility as individuals within society to be moral, right?
Morality is the jurisdiction of private individuals, not of the government.
The government is here to take care of my needs.
I give them money in order to take care of my needs at a better level, like at a more at a federal level, at a state level, because they're better at doing it when you when you join forces, because it makes for a better society.
But morality in terms of like donating to individuals, that stays at the private level of morality.
That stays in the jurisdiction of the private individuals in society.
That's not the government's responsibility and for and for that reason, we also think that that government should not be subsidizing charitable organizations.
Third, we think that the government is uniquely bad at evaluating need.
The government would end up spending far more money on the bureaucracy involved in figuring out which charities are worth subsidizing than in actual subsidies to these charities.
We think that that's a problem.
Governments tend to waste money.
That's exactly why they give tax credits when you when you make a charitable donation.
They're saying, " yes, we see some value in charity, because you, as individuals, see value in in giving charity, but we're gonna let you make the decision, because you are better at making that decision. "
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that it's easy to advocate for giving charity.
We think that charitable donations are incredibly important for our own moral like for our own private morality, but we think that when you push that obligation onto the government level: a, it's done very poorly, and b, it's done at the cost of our own citizens.
And we think that that's a problem.
We think that governments are poorly placed to make this decision of who should get these subsidies and how much each organization should get.
There are far too many charitable organizations for us to subsidize them all, and we don't we don't we don't think that the criteria set up by the government is good enough in order to tell which ones are good and which ones are bad.
We think that that question needs to be left to private individuals, because we will always disagree on which charities need more and which charities need less and so it's better to let individuals make that decision on their own, with their money, where their money will have far more impact than if it goes through the bureaucratic process of going through the government.
For these reasons, we oppose.