Ladies and gentleman, this debate is not about morality.
This is a debate about how the government can and should spend my hard-earned money, our hard-earned money, that is then relayed through taxes how they should spend that tax money.
And so, ladies and gentleman, everything that we heard from the government's case or most of what we heard from the government's case is irrelevant.
Why?
First of all, he started with his morality point, and we say this point is totally unnecessary in this debate.
The state does not have to get bogged down in the moral issues here.
All they have to say is we are not subsidizing.
We are not going to use taxpayer money to subsidize this industry or this research, but we are going to allow it to exist.
And we are going to allow private entities to put money into this industry and into this research, ladies and gentlemen.
We think that the government doesn't always have to take a side.
Second of all, the idea of the black market.
We think that the great thing about a government is that whether or not they are a main contributor or a contributor to a certain field, they get to regulate industries no matter what.
So they get to regulate the research of this of of of stem cell research whether or not they subsidize it.
And we think that that whether or not they give a some amounts of money or some sort of incentive isn't going to change how much people within that industry care about the test subjects.
So we think that that point is totally moot.
And then we heard this idea of why is it needed, right, cause it's hard to raise money.
And here we're already starting to get into my case, but I'm going to refute his his point first.
We say yaar told us that it's hard to raise enough money without without the government help because it's such a controversial issue, and people are not likely to invest because they're going to save the pandas instead.
Ladies and gentlemen, the people who are likely to invest in medical research and in the medical industry are not the same people who are going to who are going to look at the pamphlet about saving the pandas and to try to decide between the two, right?
There's a huge amount of investors who are dedicated to specifically this type of research.
So first of all, we say this is not necessarily a charity.
It's not necessarily research money or grant money.
This is an investment in medical research that is quite likely to yield profits.
And so a lot of this research is going to be going on in a for profit type environment and is going to lead to so you're gonna get like medical companies and pharmaceutical companies that are going to be doing this research, under government regulations, so that they don't pressure women into giving up their embryos.
But that's the kind of thing where people are likely to invest, because there's going to be high yield profits at the end.
Second of all, we think that there are huge amounts of money donated specifically to the type of science and medicine that is controversial, because there are people who who are very much in favor of showing everyone just how important this research is and can be.
So let's move on, right.
Like when should the free market be allowed like we say, excuse me, let me just say the free market should be allowed to pursue this kind of research.
But, the question here is can we use tax money on such highly controversial research, and we say you cannot.
When should we use tax money to subsidize programs or services or research?
One, if everyone in society agrees that it makes sense.
So, for example, in most societies there's a general consensus that every child has a right to education, so we fund in some ways the elementary and high school education.
Two, if there is a dire need for something and the private market can adequately fill that need.
So, for example, in most societies healthcare is subsidized in some way, because it can't because the totally private market can't provide services for everyone.
So even in the united states before obamacare, you at least have medicare and medicaid for those most in need.
But here the private sector his huge incentives to work on this research.
We don't know exactly what we'll get from it but the prediction is that it will vastly improve medicine and science, and so the outcomes are going to be profitable.
So since so many people are opposed on religious and moral grounds to this research, and since it has funding anyways, the government should not use our tax money against our will.
Thank you.