Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the topic that we should increase the use of scholarships.
To be very clear, we on the side of the opposition are not totally opposed to scholarships altogether, what we do think is that they should be very limited in usage.
We think that we should be very picky about when we use them.
They should be quite limited.
Why is that?
We're told, on the side of the government, that access to education means more equality in society.
And we say that that's simply not true.
Access access equaling equality is simply an illusion.
Let's look at two people studying, for example, political science, one from a wealthy family that is able to afford the university fees and the second from an equally smart and qualified person but on scholarship, because they can't afford university fees.
At the end of four years, these two students are still not equal human beings in our world.
One has the luxury of taking a low-paid internship job, for example, to gain experience.
One of them tends to have more connections to get good internships, good jobs, recommendations from high people in high places.
One of them has the resources to decide to augment their degree with another degree in business, for example, to get an even better-paying job.
The other student doesn't have these opportunities.
The other student has to worry that doing four years at university has , you know, only covering their costs with their scholarship and not being able to to save up any money or to contribute to their family needs, that's already a worry for them, that they've already in a sense wasted these four years in terms of not being able to amass wealth or help.
We think that that same student is now stuck trying to find a job that will pay enough to afford living in a big city where opportunities exist.
They can't afford to take low-paid internship jobs, because they can't afford more time where they're not contributing to their family, where they're not making enough to live in the cities where these internships exist.
That same student can't afford another four years to add another degree to their arsenal to their educational arsenal.
The reality today is that some people do have more advantages in life and slapping a bandaid on, at one specific point along the entire spectrum of inequality, simply won't solve the problem.
Worse, we think it can delude people into thinking that it can fix the problem, and these people will be stuck in an even worse situation.
That means that the student coming from the poorer background, the one who can't afford university will say, " look, I can get a scholarship to learn to study a liberal arts degree.
Why shouldn't I take that?
It will afford me better opportunities afterwards, " without realizing that, actually, it places them at a great loss in life, because they're left, after those four years, having lost out on those four years of of earning potential, and now they still can't make it in the world, because they don't have the opportunities that the other student has to take the low-paying jobs, to take the internships, to live in the big cities where the best opportunities exist, etcetera, etcetera.
What we think, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to scholarships, it's a waste of money, and it's a waste of money at the expense of the exact same people that we're trying to help.
We think it's far more helpful to spend that money at an earlier stage in the process and afford them more opportunities when it comes to education at a at a lower level, for example, so that they can go into different so that they can make better decisions in life, so that their their parent for their parents more opportunity.
We think that that there are ways to stop the cycle of poverty.
We think that there are ways at which there are places at which you can you can introduce money into these cycles in order to make better lives for these people, but assuming that just allowing somebody to get a university degree is going to stop the cycle of poverty or give them more opportunities in life is simply not true.
We think that the government is deluding itself and they're deluding the people that they're trying to help.
Thank you.