Ladies and gentlemen, we heard from the side of the government on the topic we should ban chewing tobacco.
We stand firmly on the side of the opposition in this case.
We heard from the government two main arguments.
First, we heard about the health risks involved with chewing tobacco and second, we heard about the government's duty to protect its citizens and we say the following: first of all, freedom of choice, freedom of choice, freedom of choice.
Second of all, there are less risks involved with chewing tobacco than many other activities including other forms of ingesting tobacco.
We say that this is a hypocritical stance for the government to take and it's not the government's duty to prohibit people from making choices, even bad choices.
Lets look to the points.
Let's look first to the health risks involved.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that the health risks involved with chewing tobacco are much lower than with smoking tobacco and many other legal legal things in society like drinking alcohol.
Why?
You're not inhaling the smoke or the tobacco isn't being inhaled into your lungs so the risk of lung cancer is like not an issue when it comes to chewing tobacco which is one of the main issues that that isn't like that is one of the main and biggest health risks that is involved with tobacco and we think that the the the problems the health problems that can be caused by chewing tobacco are not as severe as lung cancer.
They often don't lead to death.
There might be certain health risks involved but they're not nearly as severe as the as the repercussions to your lungs when you inhale tobacco smoke.
We think though that the health risks are really not particularly relevant to this debate.
We think we find it ironic that you would bring the health risks when you're not banning things like smoking cigarettes and alcohol, things that have very severe health risks and while this has very moderate health risks.
But we do think that it's actually quite a negligible issue in the debate.
Why is that?
Because governments don't and shouldn't make health decisions for people.
Governments should not be stopping people from making decisions even if they are bad health decisions for themselves, right?
The government needs to be consistent and let's remember by the way that chewing tobacco does not have the same secondary effects that smoking tobacco does.
So while governments might have a case in terms of banning smoking tobacco because of the effect on the people around you, there is no effect on the people around you when it comes to chewing tobacco other when some people finding it disgusting but that's just too bad, right?
Like there is no health risk to people around you, to your family, to whatever, when you chew tobacco as opposed to smoking tobacco.
So again, we think that this even even makes an even greater case in terms of like the health risks simply not being an issue in this debate.
But the government also needs to be consistent when it comes to making decisions on when it bans things and it needs to stand by it's democratic values when deciding on what to ban and when.
This does neither of those things.
This decision is neither consistent with other governmental policies nor does it stand by the democratic values that the government should be having, right?
Why?
People make free and rational choices in democratic societies.
That is the cornerstone of democracy.
People today know the risks of tobacco, they know the risks of chewing tobacco, they know the risks of smoking tobacco, they know that chewing tobacco is actually better for them than smoking tobacco.
But the bottom line is that they know the risks and freedom of choice means the freedom to make bad decisions too otherwise that is not freedom if you take away that choice.
But if the government is going to protect citizens from themselves, then they need to be consistent otherwise they send a very confusing message, right?
If you ban chewing tobacco and not smoking cigarettes, the message that you send to people is smoking is okay but chewing tobacco isn't.
That pushes more people towards the more dangerous of the two choices, ladies and gentlemen, towards the choice that affects people around them and not just themselves.
We think that this is a very dangerous policy to make.
Thank you very much.