Ladies and gentlemen, we firmly oppose abolishing environmental laws.
The government tries to tell us two things.
First of all, they tell us that the situation is not nearly as bad as we think it is, and then they tell us that environmental concerns are a long-term issue and we need to focus on our short-term issues first and secure the short term.
We have two answers to that.
First of all, we maintain that the situation is actually far worse than most people realize, and we'll discuss that at length.
Second of all, we say that governments that can't balance both short-term and long-term needs are simply governments that need to be voted out of office as soon as possible, because they're not fulfilling their duties to their people.
So, first of all, let's ask the question: how bad is the situation actually?
One: we say it's easy to say things along the lines of the government's arguments, that the planet has been around long before us, it will be okay, it can self-correct, etcetera, etcetera.
No other species has advanced as much as humans have, and our impact on the earth is exponentially larger than any past species.
So relying on the fact that, in the past, the earth hasn't imploded doesn't mean very much when the impact that we're making has accelerated changes and exponentially changed exponentially made a a larger impact.
We say that you can see this, for example, by the number of species that have gone extinct, right?
They there've always been species that are going extinct, but the rate at which animals are going extinct started accelerating greatly with human development.
We think that that's a sure sign that we are , in fact, making a huge difference when it comes to problems environmental problems.
Second our second answer to that issue is: previous species have been wiped out of existence, right?
Like, if that's our future, we say, " well, as intelligent beings, with scientific knowledge and know-how, maybe we should be trying to prevent this from from happening to us. "
We say it's not enough to say, well, it's happened in the past, and the earth will be here long before us and will be here long after us.
How about we try and stay on this earth for longer than than nature otherwise would have had us here?
Like, we'd rather not be wiped out by a meteor shower.
I don't want to go the way of the dinosaurs.
And if we can make that happen, isn't that a good, positive thing?
And our third answer is: you can, like, you can always find someone out there to support any cockamamie theory that you want, right?
There are still flat-earthers living around the globe, pardon the pun.
But scientists are largely in agreement on this issue and, in fact, there are more and more scientists coming out and saying that the situation is actually worse than we thought and that the impact that we are having on our environment is more dire than we once thought.
So let's move on to this long term versus short term issue, right?
We realize that implementing environmental laws comes with a cost in the here and now, but so do other things that we invest in in our society, right, to protect ourselves in the long run.
Think about health insurance and the importance of having it.
Everyone wants to have health insurance.
Governments often give health insurance to everybody in their country because it's so important.
And in other countries, like the united states, they're now mandating that everybody has it, even if they have to pay for it on their own.
It's not for the now.
It's for the maybes, it's for the what ifs, it's for the when they happen, right?
That's what insurance is all about.
If governments can't look to the future, if you can't look ten years ahead, fifty years ahead, and even a thousand years ahead, we think that that's a failing government.
We think that governments that can't balance the long-term needs of its people with the short-term needs, it's not an effective government.
There are ways to ensure that the financial burden doesn't fall disproportionately on the poor people in our society or on developing nations.
We think that that's an important aspect to discuss, and we think that it's entirely possible to make sure that we alleviate the burden from those specific areas and that we take most of the burden on the wealthier parts of our society, on the first world, that we are the ones who make the financial investment to go green, to go more environmentally friendly, but we don't think that that prohibits us from having environmental laws altogether.
We think that they are very important for our future, and they're very important for our right now.
Thank you very much.