According to the government if we allow for open primaries then we're going to have a more moderate candidate chosen and that's not really with the base of the party wants.
But let's think about that.
First of all maybe it's true that a more moderate candidate will be chosen.
But also a candidate who is more likely to win.
Because of independence and members of the opposing party are willing to get off their tuchus to vote in the primaries, then they're sure as hell going to vote in the general election as well.
Moreover we had this idea on the side of the government that the candidates will moderate during the general election, so we don't have to worry about that.
Well here's a thought: why not just vote for somebody who is a more moderate candidate to begin with if that's what the american citizens want, if that's what's going to win the general election?
The government's case essentially boils down to, well, we need some private time to cater to the fringe party to the fringe of our party.
And we say, no, that's not what the what the primaries are for.
The primaries are a time to choose a candidate to run in the democratic general election for the united states of america.
And if we can't choose a candidate that's going to be voted in, if we can't find a candidate who is moderate because that's what most people in america want, then we have a problem.
If this is the time that you're using just to cater to the fringe of your party, to cater to the extremists, to cater to the people who give you money, we don't think that that's really what the primaries are about.
And moreover we don't think that that's what democracy is about.
What we say on the side of the opposition is that we definitely should allow for open primaries everywhere.
And the key issue that we're going to talk about is the independent vote.
Because we constantly bemoan the fact that that there's waning interest in politics, that there's falling voter turnout numbers, that no one's coming, nobody cares anymore, we don't know how to get people out to vote.
Well having a partisan system like the one that he that is described the government is part of the problem.
It alienates the moderates, it confuses people because of cross over politics, because you have politicians who are more moderate on both sides, because you have some republicans who kind of talk like democrats and you have some democrats who kind of talk like republicans, and people are confused by the system.
People don't understand it.
People don't want to as was told by the government just join the party or switch parties.
Because in general, they might agree with a lot of things that are being said on one side.
Because in general maybe over the years they generally do agree with being a republican or democrat.
But there's a specific candidate that they want to support on the other side.
But there's a specific election where they think that there's something very important to support on the other side.
For example, african american republicans who voted who supported obama in the in in the elections because they felt it was very important to promote a the first black president.
We think that that's okay.
We don't think that we should necessarily try and entrench ourselves in partisan politics the way that the government is trying to make us do.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that when you have open primaries it's at step in the general it's a step in the right direction towards democracy going back to the people.
Towards people being becoming more active again in politics.
It sends the following message: it says yes, there are two major parties, but independence and crossover voting is allowed.
The parties which have ruled the united states for centuries are open to new supporters.
We're open even to temporary supporters.
We're opening to hearing what the with the people of america really want and how to better serve them.
Because of at the end of the day, even the governments says well all of the candidates are going to moderate.
Then we have to think to ourselves, maybe there's something wrong with the system.
If we encourage more people to come and vote in the primaries and we chose more suitable candidates to begin with, perhaps we'll have a better system altogether.
Perhaps we'll have a better democratic system that brings the power back to the people, that excites people again and gets them off their tuchuses, off their couches and into the polling stations.