Building up is the future and we need to embrace it.
We think on the side of the opposition that it is better to build tower blocks and to deal with some of the implications that were mentioned in the government speech rather than the much more harmful implications that we see, both environmental and the impact on the poor, when we when we limit tower blocks and we limit the number of stories that buildings can have in large cities.
Why is that so?
Well first of all let's deal with the points that we heard on the other side.
We heard a lot about the pollutants and the fact that there's going to be a lot of that there's a huge footprint that's massively multiplied, that there's a lot of light and noise pollution when we when we allow so many people to live in the same city in the same areas in a big city.
But we think ladies and gentleman that there's a few things a few differences here.
First of all, we think that when you have people living so close together, when you have so many people living in the downtown area of a city for example, when you have these huge high-rise buildings that are so close to the areas in which in for example the financial districts and so close to the areas in which these people work, and they're all and they are all in the city within the city limits, where it's much easier to limit the number of cars that can go that can be that can drive through the city, and also naturally there's a there is people are less likely to drive to work or to even own a car when they live in a big city.
We think that this means that you get less of a footprint in many ways.
We think that we decrease the footprint that comes from, for example, transportation which is a huge part which is a huge contributor to to the pollution problem today.
So we think that we can limit that by having people live closer to each other by having residential areas being built up and being built up close to the districts in which people work and that's where that's what happens when you allow high rise buildings and tower blocks in big cities.
We also think ladies and gentlemen that when you send people sprawling that you spread the light and noise pollution in such a way that makes it exponentially worse.
Why?
Because you're always going to have light and noise pollution in big cities.
You're always going to have a lot of those issues in big cities.
You're always going to have the lights on in the big cities no matter what.
But what happens is when you send more and more people to further and for to more remote areas, and keep building up around, and you keep building the city out and and enlarging the limits of the the city limits and sending more and more residential and building up more and more residential areas, you spread the light and the noise pollution.
You create more and more light pollution.
It is much easier ladies and gentleman to keep that all centered in big cities, and yes we realize that there are some problems that have to be dealt with.
We realize that there is some sacrifices in those big cities.
When it means that you have large swaths of land in between cities that are not as effective.
You don't need to light up those highways at night because there's not as much traffic going on there.
And so you can save on that and you also of course then preserve some of the natural resources that you have in the area that gets bulldozed when you send people sprawling into rural areas and build them up into new newer and bigger cities instead of building up in already existing cities.
So we've talked a lot about the environmental impact as our reputation as well to the other side.
But there's also an impact on the poor people.
Why is that?
Because the people who are not going to be able to afford to live in the cities, the people who are not gonna be able to live to to be able to afford to live you know in the downtown areas close to where they work, are the people who also cannot afford to commute to their job later on.
It will be harder for people to get jobs when they live far away from where they work.
It means that they have longer commutes, it means that you're putting them in that you're forcing them to buy cars or to not be able to get a job, or to have extremely long commutes, which is a huge drain on families that are already struggling.
We think that that impact on the poor is a significant is a significant factor that needs to be taken into account.
We think that tower blocks are the future, we need to look up to the sky to see where our cities are going.
Thank you.