Ladies and gentlemen, the government maintains that we should abolish credit scores.
They maintain that we should abolish credit scores altogether because the system isn't perfect.
Accessing your own credit rating is restricted in certain countries, and access by others is too easily available.
We have no qualms about tweaking the system.
Canada, for example, allows citizens to access their credit ratings as often as they like.
We would be okay with limiting certain organizations from accessing your credit rating, such as potential employers.
Those are tweaks to the system that we think might benefit the system and make it a bit better.
But, overall, we maintain that when you are entering into a financial deal where you promise money to others, we believe that, just like in all aspects of democracy, information is key.
And when you make that when you enter into that kind of contract, the other side should be allowed to have access to something that is a credit score.
We think that the exact calculations maybe we can tweak, the exact way that it's done maybe we need to assess it every periodically to make sure that it's being done in a way that is fair to everybody, but we think that, in general, the information is extremely important and that today the banks do know how and and the credit rating companies know how to do it in a way that actually reflects a person's ability to handle money and be financially stable.
We think that this is very important.
We think that when you're doing things like renting an apartment, taking out a mortgage, taking out a loan, or even just applying for a credit card, these are situations in which a person is handing over an asset in return for a promise from you.
That person should be allowed to access a credit report to give them an idea of your past financial situation, of your past financial responsibility.
We think that when it comes to a free market, you can't you can't blindfold one side and say: enter contract while blindfolded.
We think that we can make the analogy to companies entering into contracts or one company even buying out another company.
There are laws that prohibit these companies from hiding information from the company that is going to enter a contract into a contract with them, and that is for very, very good reason.
We think that in these situations, you need to know the full picture.
You need to know if the other company is hiding assets, if they have the the ability to fulfill their obligations, and the laws protect to both sides by making sure that all this information is accessible.
We think that when you enter into a contract as an individual, the same needs to be true.
That information needs to be accessible.
When you choose which bank to go to task for a mortgage or a loan, you have information about that bank.
You know about their success rates in the past.
You know about their interest rates.
You know about how reliable they are and or or not.
You know if they're insured or not by the government.
We think that these are really important pieces of information for you to have as an individual, but we think that it's unfair to say that the company, just because they're bigger or because they have more resources than you, should be blindfolded.
That doesn't make the playing field more even, it makes it unfair to them.
We think that just because you are an individual does not mean that the company has an advantage in terms of in giving you loans.
We think that you would never tell one side entering into a contract to conceal past debt or past mistakes, and we don't think that this situation is any different.
We think that abolishing credit scores puts puts the person on the other side of this promissory note at a great disadvantage.
It doesn't matter if it's a huge bank that has lots of resources behind it or an old woman who's renting you her apartment which is her only asset in life.
We think that, in both those situations, it's important for the government to protect those people because they are handing over a valuable asset to you, an individual, and that person has the right to know what your financial past looks like.
For these reasons, we would not abolish credit scores.
Thank you.