Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government that we should discourage internet trolling and we stand firmly on the side of the opposition in this debate.
We agree that trolling can be very hurtful.
It can cause people anguish and discomfort to read comments that include personal attacks and unfair negative statements.
But freedom of speech is the most important of our democratic rights and values and we can never violate it simply for our own comfort.
Modern society has become so dependent on the internet particularly on social media and at the same time so sensitive to any negativity.
We've also given up certain amounts of accountability and responsibility when it comes to vetting our sources and making sure that the information that we consume is actual true information.
We think that these are dangers of social media.
We think that these are dangers of the internet but they are not dangers of internet trolling and there's no reason to discourage it from happening.
We don't applaud or encourage being mean to others.
We don't applaud or encourage internet trolling but we think that first of all, it's important never to discourage freedom of speech and second of all, we say perhaps it is time to discourage relying so much on social media or knowledge and information.
So why is it that freedom of speech is so important, right?
It's important that we hear other people.
It's important that we hear other views even in this case.
We think that sometimes internet trolling has a kernel of truth behind it.
We think that it's important to hear these voices and if it's not important to us to hear these voices, we can always turn away.
We don't have to read the comments on internet on internet posts.
We don't have to read the comments when it comes to you know like after an article that we read or an article that we've written.
We do think that it's important to see that there are those who disagree even if they do so anonymously and in the form of trolling.
We think that hate speech laws are in existence.
We think that slander and libel laws are in existence and those protect us from the from forms of speech that are not allowed, forms of speech that do cross the line into calling for action or lying about somebody in in a way that that will harm them in their future employment, for example.
But we think that those laws already exist and we don't need to discourage internet trolling per se if it falls under the criteria of hate speech, if it falls under the criteria of incitement to violence, if it falls under the criteria of slander or libel, those are things we can take care of under the law.
We also think it's really important to hold the media and ourselves responsible for the news that they report and that we consume.
We think that it's easy for these news for media for the media to blame trolls for for spreading false news but the fact is that it's the responsibility of each individual media outlet to vet their sources.
We think that it's too easy for us to just blame things on internet trolling.
It's easy to blame people's suicide and and bullying on internet trolling but that's not taking responsibility for ourselves and society.
That's not taking responsibility for the problems that we have in our society in terms of the way that we treat mental healthcare, for example or the way that media outlets treat information that comes to them.
The fact is that we are inundated with information today and that includes media outlets.
They're given lots of information.
They are sent lots of information.
They have to search online for all this information because it's all out there.
But they still have the responsibility to only report things that they have vetted.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that discouraging internet trolling means that we're focusing on the wrong ills in our society.
We don't encourage it.
We don't think it's good but we do think that there is some value first of all to hearing opposing views even if they are anonymous and remember that often anonymous views are the ones that actually are free to say things that otherwise people are afraid to say.
We think that sometimes they bring out opposition and ideas that would be difficult to say in society today without being anonymous.
But we also think again, that it's our responsibility to make sure that we live in a good society that vets our information, that looks into things before spreading rumors and that's our responsibility not the responsibility of the trolls trying to spread fake information.
Thank you very much.