The queen of england has the power to wage war, sign treaties, dissolve parliament, form governments, create lords.
The royal family is above the law.
In matters as trivial is the queen not needing a passport to travel, or not needing a license to drive a car, to matters far more serious such as the royal family being exempt for freedom of information requests.
The system of monarchy is archaic and it's counter to our democratic values and that is why we we should abolish the monarchy.
Let's talk about three main issues.
First is the dangers of the line of succession and how that threatens democracy.
Talk about the high cost of of the monarchy.
We're gonna talk about the main question of what's the point of a monarchy?
Why should we keep it around?
So let's go back to the issue of the dangers of the line of of succession and the threat to democracy that exists.
Queen elizabeth is quite a benevolent queen.
She pays taxes although she is exempt officially as queen from doing so.
She hasn't dissolved parliaments just for giggles.
She seems to not unduly try to influence politics.
But the nature of a monarchy is that we have no choice in who comes next.
We know that there's a line of succession the cannot be tempered with.
Charles is next in line and when queen elizabeth dies, no one can change that other than charles himself by abdicating.
What if prince charles is not as benevolent a king and queen elizabeth was a queen?
What if he decides to stop paying taxes?
What if he decides to interfere more heavily in politics which he can do not only in britain, by the way, but in other countries like australia where he can dissolve parliament in the other countries where he is influence over politics.
We think it's dangerous when you have a public figure who has so many powers even if they traditionally don't use them today, they have that power and when you have no when the people have no say in who comes next in line, they have no say in who is the next holder of these powers, we think that is a danger and a threat to democracy.
We think that it doubles that threat to democracy when they are exempt from so many laws and they are exempt from very serious things like the freedom of information act.
There is no transparency when it comes to the monarchy.
There's no transparency in the way they deal with their money, with taxpayer money.
There's no transparency in the way that they deal with things and they're above the law and exempt from the law and we think that that is dangerous to our democracy.
It's simply incompatible with our way of life today, one that puts the people in charge.
Second of all, we have the issue of the high cost of the royal family.
There's a huge amount of money being spent on the royal family including salaries to the larger family not just the queen, to staff, official events, security, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
Reforming the costs is extremely tricky because parliament is dependent on the good will of the royal family of the queen.
Asking your boss to cut her own salary, or the salary of her family's, or her staff, or the number of events that she goes to, or her security, is not a particularly easy task for them to do.
And there we have the question what's the point of the monarchy today?
Yes it's a whimsical tradition but what's really the point?
Why should we have a ceremonial head of state who isn't chosen by the people, who doesn't cost hundreds of millions of pounds to upkeep?
There is no justification for it.
Coupled with the high cost financially and the high cost to our democracy, we simply have to answer the question of what's the point with there is none anymore.
There is no point to having a queen or a king who has powers that they're not supposed to be using too much, who hold extreme amounts by huge amounts of power for parliament in the in the united kingdom and yet they're not supposed to use it.
We think that there's a big problem when you have this contradiction.
We think that there's no point to keeping the monarchy around.