We heard from the government that we should increase the use of public spaces.
The government paints a very pretty picture of luscious green parks, vast open areas, community gatherings, meeting of the minds on public grounds.
On our side of the house we will tell you that it's all a fantasy.
People today don't want to spend their time in public spaces.
They crave privacy and they crave safety and neither of those occur in public spaces.
We think think that encouraging the increasing of increasing usage of public spaces leads to wasting money.
It wastes precious land and these spaces will end up falling into disrepair and become a meeting place not for the minds and not for neighborhood gatherings but for gangs, drug users and the homeless.
So let's look first to the issue of security.
This is an issue that wasn't addressed at all on the side of the government.
It was conveniently left out of their plan.
We say on the side of the opposition that people prefer more private areas for congregating today.
That's why when people can afford it, they buy a house with a private backyard that has a gate around it.
We think that that's why when kids when that people choose to have their kids close to home.
They want them being under their own eye locked in to a backyard.
That's why despite the availability of outdoor running tracks, for example, and even gym equipment in parks around the world, people and particularly women are choosing to work out in private gyms.
They pay money to do something that they could do for free outside in public spaces.
They choose to pay money to do it in private areas indoors.
Why?
Because they want the ability to work out with with earphones in listening to their music without the threat of an attacker coming up from behind.
These are concerns that people have today that they take into account and they're willing to pay more they're willing to pay money that they don't have to pay in order to be in more secure locations.
Open common areas have always attracted crime ; violent crime, sexual crimes, theft.
People are no longer interested in that type of space.
We see a shift already.
We see people choosing private private outdoor garden spaces when they can afford so, private areas to workout in, private indoor gyms where there's security where they know that they're safe, private rooms for meetings with neighbors, private areas to to meet friends in.
All of these all of these things take place in private areas even if they're outdoors.
People care about safety and people know that it's not safe to be in public areas that the government is advocating we increase the use of.
We also think that this issue that they bring up of like diversity that some sort of false notion that you know common grounds leads to diversity, we think that actually most neighborhoods are naturally segregated.
So even if we do use parks in certain areas, right parents do sometimes take their children to parks in their neighborhood, they're naturally segregated neighborhoods meaning like you know certain neighborhoods are more affluent, certain neighborhoods are less affluent.
People from different ethnic backgrounds tend to live in the same communities and that means that you're using parks with people who are very similar to you and not those from a diverse background.
Even if we did have areas where there were where there was diversity, we think that we all teach our children not to talk to strangers.
We all teach our children not to engage with people that we don't know already and so this idea of diversity and a meeting of the minds is simply false.
We think like what happens to these spaces if we try to increase the number of them and the usage of them?
We think that they fall into disrepair.
We think that they become a place where drug drugs are distributed and used.
We think that it's a place where gangs meet and end up terrorizing whoever does come and walk through these areas.
They become hotbeds of danger, right?
We think that land is a very precious commodity and increasing public spaces when nobody wants it is simply wasteful.
Thank you very much.