Ladies and gentlemen, we heard from the side of the government that they tried to link billboards and their existence to traffic accidents.
We don't think they did a particularly good job of making that link.
We think the following three things: first of all, the dangers that they presented are not linked to billboards, they're linked to other driving hazards ; second of all, we think that there are great benefits to having billboards along the roads ; and third of all, we think that we do need to remember and respect that there are rights in a democratic society, that companies have a right to advertise and that it's a very slippery slope to banning advertising in public spaces altogether.
But let's look to the first issue, the issue of the dangers when you're driving along the road, and we think, ladies and gentlemen, that billboards do not cause greater danger in in most cases.
We think that driving in and of itself is quite dangerous, and we do think that we perhaps need to make better sure that that the people who are allowed to drive, the people who get licenses, are good at driving.
We think that drivers should be able to multitask to a certain extent, because you do need to be able to see your entire surroundings and pay attention to everything around you when you're driving down the road.
You need to see the lanes around you.
You need to see other cars and whether or not they're about to switch lanes, or they're going to or if they're slowing down, or turning.
You cannot just pay attention to the piece of road in front of you, you need to be able to see your surroundings.
You also need to be able to to to take in the signs that are around you, signs for turnoffs, sign with traffic updates, signs that tell you whether or not you can pass the car next to you right now or not, signs like stop signs.
If you can't take in that kind of sign, you should not be driving at all.
We think that if you can drive safely, and take in those signs, and understand what they mean in that split second that you see them, we think that you'll also be able to do that when it comes to billboards.
We do think that this is very different from looking at a cell phone, and we can't make that analogy.
Why is it different?
First of all, because your hands stay on the wheel the entire time.
The angle of the billboard is such that you're not looking away from the road, as opposed to looking at your cell phone which is going to be held down by your lap, etcetera, somewhere that's off the road.
You're looking away from the place that you're supposed to be looking at.
Billboards are strategically placed to be within your your line of sight, while you're paying attention to the stretch of road ahead of you.
We think that when you look at a billboard, it catches your eye for a split second, the corner of your eye.
You look at it for, you know, really like a fraction of a second.
It's much like seeing a bird flying by and noticing it.
We think that if you can't if you're distracted by everything around you, then perhaps you're not a good enough driver, right?
So we think that there are a few a small number of cases where billboards might be distracting, but those are cases in which we've erroneously given this person a license to drive and we should perhaps have tougher licensing laws to make sure that only people who can take in their whole surroundings while driving are allowed to drive.
But we do think that that is the majority of people, that the majority of people are not distracted by the billboards that exist.
Second of all, we think that there are great benefits to having these billboards.
On long stretches of highway, especially in like boring rural areas where there's just nothing along the road except for these billboards, we think it's very difficult to concentrate on driving when you don't have these signs.
Billboards are colorful, they grab your attention, they help wake you up and stay awake.
In fact, in some areas, governments themselves are putting up billboards with funny signs, right?
Along a stretch of roads, they have series of billboards with trivia questions and answers or or jokes in order to keep you awake.
We think that you need these signs.
We also think it's important and you need these signs to advertise places where you can stop along the road if you are tired.
We think that they serve a great benefit.
Finally, we think that it's a slippery slope.
If you drive down any major street, you see flashing restaurant signs, you see bus benches with ads, you see street signs, you see any number of distractions.
If we need to clear the road of distractions, then we think that you are infringing on our democratic rights.
We think that you're infringing on our economy and our democratic values, which include the right to advertise.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.