Ladies and gentlemen, we stand firmly and proudly in opposition on the motion, we should prohibit over-the-counter drugs.
The government spoke of the dangers of self-medication, overmedication, and drug abuse in an attempt to persuade us that we should prohibit over-the-counter drugs from being sold, and we say, first of all, the dangers of self-medication become much worse under your plan.
I'm gonna expand on that in my first point.
Second of all, we think that the opioid problem that exists today, especially in the united states of america, and it being one of the most serious health care issues in america, one of the most serious threats to our citizens in america, it's a prescription medication problem.
So we don't see how dealing with over-the-counter drugs is actually dealing with the main and with the real problem that exists today in our country.
Third of all, we think that you overburden doctors in an already overburdened health care system and, again, I will expand on that in my point.
Let's talk about self-medicating.
We think that the status quo is actually pretty good in terms of over-the-counter drugs and self-medication.
We think that patient knowledge is quite high in this day and age.
We think that the packaging requirements, like, the instructions that are in the package that you get are very good.
We think that resource availability is very good, so that means like there's a pharmacist in every walmart, every target, every CVS, like at every single corner, you know, of every street in america and, of course, you have lots of online resources as well.
So you can always like go online and find resources about the dosage that you're supposed to take or how how dangerous it is for specific conditions, etcetera, etcetera.
But what happens every time if every time you have a headache and you need a bottle of advil, you need to get a prescription, right?
What's going to end up happening is people aren't going to be making appointments for things that they think they can self-diagnose, whether it's like ear infections, or headaches, or things that require what is today over-the-counter drugs, and people think that they have those conditions.
They're not many people aren't going to make an appointment and go to the doctor in order to get a prescription for advil, or moxypen, or like some sort of antibiotic that they think they know they can diagnose.
What are they going to do, right?
They're going to like today you do have to go to get a prescription for antibiotics.
But what's going to happen when like every single drug requires a a doctor's visit?
You're not going to go for a lot of these things.
What you're going to do is you're going to look in your medicine cabinet and you're gonna look in your friends' and neighbors' medicine cabinets and see what you have, right?
That means that you start encouraging improper usage of drugs because getting to a doctor is too impractical, it's too annoying, and you're going to start using more out-of-date drugs, because people are going to start keeping leftover drugs.
So like if you use antibiotics, if you get a prescription for antibiotics, you're gonna keep those leftovers, and you might start using them the next time that you think you need it, like either you're going to just, you know, use it because that's what you have around, or you're gonna use it until you get to your doctor's appointment.
We think that that's very dangerous, and we think that that this plan actually encourages that kind of dangerous medication usage that we don't see very much today.
We also think that people are gonna be using the wrong medication.
So if you don't have a bottle of advil around, you're gonna use something stronger because, hey, whatever, like I just have a headache and I need it to go away.
And I can't get advil today because I can't get a doctor's appointment, because it's impractical to go to the doctor, because it's just like not it's annoying to go to the doctor every time you need an advil, right?
So we think that that's bad.
We think that people start hoarding drugs, they start keeping leftovers because it's not easily accessible anymore, and they're using them properly.
In addition to these dangers, we do think that many people do end up going more to the doctor, because you need those prescriptions, because, you know, your neighbors don't have anymore advil, because you want to stock up on advil, etcetera.
Right?
And that means that you're burdening an already overburdened system, particularly in countries with socialized healthcare where these systems are already under a lot of stress.
Doctors who have to meet with patients who have a headache from two days, you know, who made an appointment two days ago because they had a headache and wanted a prescription for advil, those are doctors who are not able to spend as much time with patients who have real issues, with immediate healthcare needs, from a qualified physician.
We think that this plan is a very bad one and we stand in opposition.