Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the motion we should abandon the sexual revolution.
We on this side of the opposition say the sexual revolution is far from over and we believe that embracing it makes for a better, healthier society and a better, healthier tomorrow.
We say that morals change and we think that that's a good thing.
Holding onto morals and tradition simply because that's the way we've done things until now is not a good reason to adhere to them and continue with them.
The government worries about the demise of the family unit and the rise of sexually transmitted diseases and we say let's face the future and not hide from it.
Let's discuss both of those issues both the family unit and sexual health and see how the sexual revolution is actually something that we think is very beneficial to society.
So first of all, to the to the issue of the family unit.
We see today that there are many different forms of families and they can work.
We see two parents of the same gender.
We see one parent, right?
We see a lot of single parenting, single parenting by choice.
We see lots of different ways in which you can raise a family today.
We think that the traditional unit is not now nor has it ever been perfect and pretending otherwise does injustice to history.
We think that applauding like putting the family unit, the traditional family unit of a husband and wife and children on a pedestal is extremely harmful to everyone involved.
Women for for centuries were unable to fulfill themselves outside of the home.
Men weren't able to be soft, sensitive, loving, or raise their children, right, have a hand in raising their children, and children were raised in this atmosphere of stress, of strife and we think that it was not good for anyone involved.
The fact is, ladies and gentleman, that the that the traditional family unit is very detrimental to the health of everyone involved.
Women were forced to stay in their homes for centuries.
They were forced to take on only specific roles and the same is true of men.
We think that that's extremely harmful to these individuals.
We think that holding on to the family unit today in a world in which we do would try to encourage both men and women to be who they are and to fulfill themselves outside of the home, that means that children are suffering even more because now both parents are working full time out of the home in many of these traditional family units.
We think that it's time to rethink family units altogether and how they can be and how we can support them and how like it's best to build them.
We don't think it's worthwhile to hang on to a perception of what we think should be just because it is the way that it was.
It has never worked well.
It has never been good for everyone involved.
Sure, there are specific families that it works for.
There are specific families where the husband enjoys working outside of the house and taking on that role and the woman enjoys being inside the house more and taking on that role but that's not true of the majority of people.
We think that it's time for us to explore the the a variety of new family units and see what actually works best.
Second of all, this issue of sexual health.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that the sexual revolution brought along something incredible.
It brought along the ability to talk freely about certain sexual about our sexual health, right, and that means that you can solve problems.
Today it's okay to talk about things like chlamydia, like herpes, like HIV, right, and that means that you can research it more.
That means you have more access to information that's out there.
It means that you're more comfortable talking to your doctor about symptoms that you have and that means that people are getting better healthcare.
We need to continue this trend.
We need to talk more about about things like birth control and the problems that exist today with birth control and try to push forward the push push forward the research that that is being done in this field in order to make birth control better for women, healthier for women, better for families altogether for people together.
We think that abandoning the sexual revolution makes us stuck in the past in in conservative trends that don't actually work and never did.
They aren't good for everyone and for these reasons we should embrace the sexual revolution.