Ladies and gentleman, the government in this debate has some serious phobias of freedoms.
They are violating both the freedom of choice of every individual who chooses to go into a casino or not, and they're violating the freedoms of the marketplace that keeps the market alive and well and stable.
Let's talk about three main points.
We're gonna talk first about addiction, because we think that this is a major point in today's debate.
We're gonna move on to talk about the local economies and how we're actually empowering local economies, making them better, and we're gonna talk briefly about the value of gambling.
But let's start with addiction, as we said.
Addiction is obviously an extremely serious problem.
The problem is that banning one possible addiction or another is not going to solve the problem.
There are people who are simply prone to addiction, and these are the people that get addicted to gambling, to drugs, to alcohol, and more often than not, more than one of those things or other things.
So, often, you see people who are addicted to gambling are also addicted to alcohol, for example.
We don't think that banning gambling is is casinos is going to make any difference whatsoever.
In fact, we do think there's going be a difference, but it's going to be worse than before, but why?
Why is it not going to help?
One, because you're often going to turn to other addictions and make those, the addictions that you already have, worse.
And second of all, you are going to turn to the black market, as opposed to what the government tried to tell us as where this is a specific case where the black market won't work.
Actually, we think that gambling is one of the better quote unquote addictions to have, because it's actually harder to ignore.
So when you lose thousands of dollars in one night, yes, it is harmful, but you're more likely to get help than somebody who drinks a bottle of scotch in secret every night.
It is harder to hide it's harder to hide the gambling, and it is harder to ignore the gambling for the people around you, because there's such a concrete harm to the family, as opposed to things like drinking that can be hidden much better, unfortunately.
And also, the black market is absolutely nothing to sneeze at.
You don't need casinos.
We're not talking about underground casinos that are that are hiding from the authorities.
All you're talking about are high stakes poker games, high stakes roulette games, etcetera, which are very easy to conduct in in a multitude of places, in a back room at a bar, whatever it is.
They're very easy to find, and they are far more dangerous than any casino could ever be.
Why?
Because everyone in the room wants your money, everyone in the room is drinking, everyone in the room is at the edge of their seat, and everyone in the room is encouraging everyone else to bid more and more and more money, and these are always high stakes games.
There's nothing like putting down pennies or dimes or dollars at these tables.
You're talking only thousands and hundreds of thousands of dollars.
There's often violence when things go even moderately wrong in these rooms.
So you can we we we don't necessarily object to modifying certain casino regulations to limit how much people can play or how much money we you can spend in a night, etcetera, but abolishing the industry as a whole is more dangerous than having casinos open.
Second of all, we think that casinos are wonderful moneymakers.
One, we have no problem with people who are rich getting richer, right?
They're providing entertainment for the masses, and most people when they go lose a little bit of money, but they enjoy it so much that it was worth it.
It is absolutely no different from somebody dropping eight hundred dollars to see hamilton on broadway.
In fact, it might be more worthwhile.
Second of all, of course the local economy gains, right?
Taxes from the casinos are poured back into local services and second of all, local businesses, they might have to innovate, but they can collaborate with the casinos to offer goods and services.
And furthermore, these tend to be places where no one used to visit before the casinos came.
So it's not as though it was better without the casinos.
Gambling has value, ladies and gentlemen, it's an entertainment value.
You are losing you're not losing money, you are spending money to have fun, and that's not something we can we can ignore.
The industry is great for local economies, and while addiction is a terrible disease, closing casinos is not going to stop addicts.
Thank you very much.