Ladies and gentlemen, I stand proudly on the side of the opposition in the case that we should further exploit enhanced oil recovery.
We heard from the government that enhanced oil recovery is a good way to get oil, to keep it local, and have it under EPA and having it under EPA supervision covers all the risks involved.
To that, we have two answers.
First, we think that you don't recognize the risks that that exist, despite EPA regulations, and second of all, we think that we should be distancing ourselves from dirty fuels altogether and that the government is sending a very mixed message when they when they support and subsidize the shift away from dirty technologies but then also do things like exploiting enhanced oil recovery.
Let's talk first about the risks that do exist, because we heard from the government, " well, it's okay, because the EPA regulates this. "
Water pollution is the largest risk involved with with enhanced oil recovery, and the fact is that the EPA has neglected to properly regulate the issue over the years.
They're understaffed when it comes to overseeing the specific projects.
Data has not properly been collected, and and that means that we're not able to to compare data over the years or between sites, and we think that safety guidelines, we know the safety guidelines have not been updated for these projects in decades.
We think that the EPA has simply dropped the ball when it comes to enhanced oil recovery.
It's very easy to say, " well, the government can regulate it through this agency, " but clearly it's much harder for the government to actually do it.
We don't think it's enough to say that the EPA regulates, when we have evidence, hard evidence, that it's simply not doing a good enough job and hasn't been doing so for decades.
Water pollution is a huge risk to the communities that surround the areas in which enhanced oil recovery happens.
And because one of the benefits, on the side of the government, is that we keep it local, right, this happens right here in the united states of america.
It happens in canada.
It happens very close to residential areas.
It happens in, right, like here in our in states like where people are living.
We think that the risk of water pollution is extremely, extremely high.
We think it's an an extreme danger that we need to be able to to be sure that we are regulating properly, and if the EPA has dropped the ball, then we can't just say, " well, it's regulated, " and move on.
Second of all, we think that in terms of energy sources, we are at the precipice of change.
The government now needs to choose.
Do we want to squeeze every last ounce of fossil fuel out of our earth regardless of the cost to our drinking water, regardless of the cost to our air quality, regardless of our delicate of of the cost to our delicate ecosystem that is suffering at the hands of the devastating use of pollutants, or do we want to shift our focus and exploit cleaner technologies?
It's our moral duty to ourselves, and to our children, and to our planet to make this shift.
The government itself recognizes this.
They subsidize, they give they give subsidies to companies that are moving towards cleaner technology.
They give there are benefits to people who buy electric cars rather than than than regular fuel-driven cars.
We see that the government has already recognized that this change needs to take place, and they're encouraging this change to take place.
This is a step backwards.
Exploiting the use of the little bits of fossil fuel that are left in our in our grounds, trying to bring oil out in some different way, that's no better than drilling in other ways.
We think that it's the the fuel itself that we should be leaving in our earth.
We think that the method that is used to extract it is not is not as big an issue as the question of whether or not we should be using it at all.
And we say we shouldn't be exploiting dirty dirty energy anymore.
We should be shifting towards better, cleaner technologies that will leave us a better, cleaner environment for the next generation.
Thank you.