The government tried to wave away women's rights over their body by calling them minor autonomy rights claims.
There's nothing minor about autonomy rights claims.
There's nothing minor about a woman's body being claimed as government property and being told by a government that just because you are a woman carrying a fetus, you are now subject to whatever tests and whatever medical interventions we deem necessary.
We think ladies and gentlemen that is an egregious an an egregious an egregious going over of women's rights and we think that it is appalling that the government would suggest such a thing.
We think ladies and gentlemen that the risks involved to the fetus are substantial when it comes to these prenatal diagnoses.
And therefore and every time that there's a risk to the fetus there's also a risk to the mother because for example, like obviously if there's an if there's a miscarriage that harms the mother and that can permanently harm her there can be a lot of complications along this side.
We think ladies and gentlemen that oftentimes the results are fairly useless in comparison with what's being done today anyways.
And we think obviously that women's choice is primary.
So let's go on to discuss the idea of the the results.
Because that's the crux of this debate here.
That's where the government focused most of its time.
Right?
Can we even do anything, right?
So we think that we've won this debate before we get to this point.
We think that a woman's body does not become government property.
We think that it is her choice, it is her body.
And as opposed to what the government keeps saying about the child's rights, the child's rights, there is no child until until the fetus exits the womb.
But even if we conceded that there were some rights, and even if we thought that that it could be done, we think ladies and gentleman that generally speaking, when it comes to like the detection of some sort of prenatal when you try and detect something with prenatal diagnosis, there's there's really two major things that can be done.
One is an abortion, and we think ladies and gentlemen that like that's not something that the government should be like forcing parents to to like know about whether or not like there are parents who just know that they're not going to have an abortion no matter what the the the disability may be to the child, and there's nothing wrong with that and the government should force parents to have to deal with that as an option before the the baby is born.
We think ladies and gentlemen that any other kind of postnatal care that's needed can and is given regardless of knowing whether or not it will be needed, right?
We think that that postnatal care today, especially in like in in in western world is just incredibly good, we think that most most births take place in a hospital.
Most people who are at risk know that there might be some risk and know to go to a hospital where after care is going to be provided.
We don't think that that's a huge problem, we don't think that much more will be done that you're going to save many lives with that that there's going to be any significant difference from from today if you force parents to to have prenatal screening.
So what do we hear?
And then we have this idea of like, well there's a cost to the parents because a lot of parents think that nothing will ever go wrong with them.
Like that is a burden on the medical establishment to provide more information, right?
That's something that needs to be done.
And this is where we come to the issue of women's choice is primary.
We should be giving as much information to women as possible.
Why?
Like we should be giving them the statistics on the risks of testing, which exist.
We should be giving them the likelihood of something going wrong in their pregnancy and the likelihood of being able to fix it.
But these vary from women to women.
It varies with ethnical ethnic backgrounds, with medical backgrounds, and with the age of the woman involved.
And and sometimes the man involved but usually the women's eight the woman's age is more important.
We think that the medical establishment has a burden to give more information to women in order to make better choices, but the choice still has to be the parents choice.
Moreover we think that there are false positives, there are false negatives, there are too many choices being made on science that is not exact.
We think the parents who want to make that choice, who want to find out, we think that's fine, we think that in many cases it makes sense, and parents in those cases should be given all the statistics that they need to know that it makes sense for them.
But they should not be forced to do so by the government.
Thank you.