It is a fact that global warming is accepted by every major scientific body there is.
There's no denying that sea levels are rising and all sorts of environmental catastrophes are on their way.
Time is simply running out on our planet if we don't take action.
Glaciers are melting, putting huge populations at risk of flooding, pollution is growing thicker every day, putting our children and elderly at high health risks, and temperatures and climate changes are affecting our food security.
We need to fight global warming at the highest levels of government and in the most severe ways possible.
Western civilization has polluted the world for decades and it's time we take our actions seriously.
Governments need to fund few need to limit fuel consumption and energy usage, both private and industrial.
They need to subsidize green technology both domestically and internationally, and we think that they should be pulling all funding and subsidies from industries that pollute.
In addition, we believe that government should be levying enormous taxes on individuals and industries that continue to pollute our environment and put our civilization at risk.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a totally necessary step.
We think that is far too easy to talk about climate change and talk about the risks to our environment and then not do enough.
We think that up until now governments have been good at scaring people just a little bit and making just small amounts of changes, and making small promises like signing the kyoto accords, ladies and gentlemen, which are a joke in the face of the crisis that is looming.
We think the governments need to lead changes worldwide.
We need to be leaders in this industry and it is our duty, as the primary contributor in the western world, to be the ones who take this change.
We think that money needs to be diverted from unnecessary spending such as military operations that are not truly necessary, and other areas where money can be saved.
We think that this needs to be our true priority.
Because our government today does so much for the short term.
We think ladies and gentlemen that what governments need to be doing is taking a look to the future because that is what they're there for.
As citizens, it is difficult for us and it is well known that we don't take care of our futures.
This is why the government has social security in place.
What we need, ladies and gentleman, is a true social security fund when it comes to the environment.
And that is what we are proposing.
We think that the government must take drastic steps to force citizens and force industries and force the international community to comply with very strict green technology regulation and green living regulations.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the only way to truly change the tide, both metaphorically and literally speaking.
We think that it is a necessary step that governments must be taking and there is no one else to take it.
The private industry today is not doing enough.
We cannot rely on them and we should not be relying on them because there are too many interests for them to use cheap available technology, which is usually the the dirtiest technology that there is and that pollutes our environment and puts the future of our country at risk.
We think it's time for the government to stand up for the future of our planet and to make the drastic changes that are needed to put a a a stop to the to the climate changes.
Thank you.