Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the on the motion that the right to strike should be protected and the government has spoken about protecting democratic values and the need to have methods that allow workers to be heard and improve their working conditions when necessary.
We maintain three things: first, minimal employment conditions are codified by law, b, emergency services and and other types of services have too much power when strikes are are protected and c, alternatives exist.
So let's discuss from the beginning.
First of all, we say that minimal employment conditions are codified by law.
The government does not need to nor should it interfere in the marketplace beyond those minimums.
We think that if you have a minimum wage in place, if you have certain minimal certain safety conditions like working certain safety conditions that are in place to make sure that people are not working in unsafe environments, those are enough for a government to say we should not and will not interfere anymore.
We think that at that point it becomes a market problem in a free market will be able to solve it on its own.
We'll discuss in the alternatives point what some of the alternatives that employees have to make their working conditions better.
Second of all, we say that there are many types of services that place that where striking puts way too much power in the hands of those who go on strike.
So with emergency services it's obvious, when it comes to the police, when it comes to doctors, when it comes the firefighters and ambulance drivers.
It's just obvious there that at that point the government simply can't like citizen's or lives go are put at risk when these types of services are allowed to strike.
We think that protecting those types of services of of service providers and their right to strike is dangerous to every citizen in our country, right?
Nobody you can't just replace some a doctor with another doctor because they aren't they, right, like you just can't do it.
Not enough people are trained for these positions and they're absolutely necessary in order for us to have a functioning, healthy society.
But we think that it goes beyond emergency services.
We think, for example, teachers when teachers go on strike that puts an immense amount of power in their hands.
Why?
Because it affects the economy as a whole.
Because when teachers go on strike it means the parents have to take off from work and stay home with their children.
That's a that's lost days for the economy.
That's lost that's lost profit for the economy.
We think that that's really dangerous and also puts people at risk.
It puts small business owners at risk when they have to let their employees stay home because their children are home.
We think that like that amount of that loss of money means that they might go bankrupt at the end of that month because they didn't have their employees available because so many people have to stay home, right?
Because it's such a huge amount of our society that's put out of that's put in the position that they have to take off from work.
We think that that kind of of situation puts far too much power in the hands of the people and it creates a situation in which in which strikes are no longer a tool but a silver bullet basically and we think that that's a problem.
But finally, we think that alternatives do exist, right?
You can negotiate, you can negotiate through unions, you can quit if conditions are bad enough for you to think that it that it means that, right?
The government has no specific duty to protect this particular method of trying to make your workplace better simply because it's convenient for workers and gives them more power than their employees.
We think that like you can allow market forces to work here, right?
If you want to force the industry to change then you have to make a cost benefit analysis.
Is it worth it for me to leave my job in order to try and make this change or is it worth it for me to stay in this job, right?
You can't ask the government to skew that cost benefit analysis in your favor just because you want the upper hand when it comes to the free market.
We don't think that that's a good way to manipulate the free market in fact, we think it is outright manipulation.
So for these reasons, for the reasons that the free market should be allowed to work its way and figure itself out, we beg to oppose.