Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a woman, stand proudly on the side of opposition on the debate we should fight the gender pay gap.
The government presents the gender pay gap as a given, something that definitely exists and exists because of discrimination towards women in the workplace.
We disagree on both those grounds, on the side of the opposition.
First of all, we think that calculating pay gaps is a very difficult science and can be done in many different ways.
So, for example, the fact that two positions have the same job title certainly does not mean that those two jobs are exactly the same or deserving of the same salary.
One job may be at a large, proven, stable company that has been around for decades and another at a small startup, where everyone is earning substantially less than in other companies with the same titles.
One may be a full-time job and one may be a part-time job, which means that the per hour salary changes.
One title holder may have had five years experience at a lesser-known small company, while the other one came into the job with five years experience at a high profile, successful company, with twenty letters of recommendation from c-suite executives.
It is impossible to say that just because somebody has the same job title, that means that they deserve the same salary.
That means that calculating the gender pay gap is an incorrect and unscientific thing to do.
These variables and dozens of others affect wages.
Presuming that we can compare an analyst salary to another analyst salary, or a programmer salary to another programmer salary, or any title salary to another same-title salary is unrealistic and certainly given to much bias and much interpretation.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that IBM is a perfect example of a strong company that has been around for decades that obviously pays its its workers very well.
The person in a small startup that is just starting out, with the same title, you simply cannot compare the salaries of the two.
That would be ridiculous, and we don't think that the the people who measure the gender pay gap and who advocate that there is a gender pay gap and that we should be fighting it, we don't think that they take these differences into consideration.
Let's assume, though, that women, on the whole, are making less money than men do.
Why is this so?
The government assumes that it is because of discrimination against women in the workplace, meaning somebody out there, like, or everyone who's hiring women and deciding on their wages is saying, " aha, it's a woman, I'm going to pay them less. "
We think, first of all, if that's the case, then government-mandated salary equality certainly is not going to solve the problem.
We think that if that's the case, and in the small number of cases where it's true that there simply are people who are still biased against women, right, like that is a problem but we think it's a very small problem, right?
In those cases, women will simply not be hired.
They'll be given lesser titles, so they'll be hired to positions that just aren't commensurate with what they should be should be called.
Men will end up getting more work perks, more bonuses, etcetera.
So we don't think that in those small number of cases, you're actually gonna solve the problem, but what we think is that discrimination really is a small minority of cases.
We think that the majority of the issue stems from something very different.
It stems from women wanting different types of jobs.
It stems from women wanting jobs with less responsibilities, with more flex time, with less hours so that they can get home and be with their children and their families.
We think that this is something that isn't a problem.
On the side of the opposition, to be clear, we don't think it's a problem that women make this decision or that many women, right, we don't think that this is across the board, but we think that women tend to make this decision more than men do.
We think it's a very valid decision to make.
In fact, we think that men should also be encouraged to feel free to make this kind of decision.
What we don't think is that you can make this decision, say that you want a different type of job, different types of responsibility, have a better work life balance, and then complain that you're not making as much as people who invest more in their career.