Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the government that flu vaccinations should be mandatory.
To this, we have a number of answers.
The first first and foremost, we think that people have the right to bodily autonomy, and this is something that the government never addresses.
The fact that the shot doesn't hurt that much, the fact that there are other ways of administering the vaccination to certain people is not enough.
Medical procedures, no matter how invasive or noninvasive they are, cannot be mandatory.
That's assault on your body, on an individual's body, and we think that that that bodily autonomy is of utmost importance in a democracy.
If your own body does not belong to yourself and decisions regarding your body don't belong to yourself, then what is left of our society?
What is left of our democracy?
We think at that point, people have given up too many rights.
We also think, ladies and gentlemen, that they that they minimize the risks involved to our bodies, right?
They minimize the fact that flu vaccinations can cause not just mild discomfort, but can cause discomfort for days.
It can cause allergic reactions in many people, and you don't necessarily know who is going to have that allergic reaction before it happens.
They also don't tell you, when it comes to bodily autonomy, that flu vaccinations are not a one-time deal.
They have to happen every single year in order to be effective.
That is a mandatory violation of my body on a regular basis, ladies and gentlemen.
We think that the government needs to rethink this plan.
Second of all, let's look at the issue of responsibility and whose responsibility for people who can get sick from from the flu, right?
And like let's recognize that the risk of anything happening if you get the flu is extremely small.
It's a little bit inconvenient if you happen to get the flu, for most people.
There are specific people who are at higher risk for complications that can lead to more severe diseases like upper respiratory problems that are linked to the flu, so like it might develop into pneumonia.
We think that if you are an at-risk person, which means immunocompromised, or elderly, or a young child, we think that you should be responsible for your own health, and you should be the ones going and seeking out this flu vaccination.
We have no problems with flu vaccinations being subsidized by the government.
Sure, have them available for free.
That's great, especially for at-risk people, but we don't think that it's my responsibility to take on the risks, to my body, in order to save you from the risks to your body.
You should be the one taking the responsibility to get the flu vaccination every year, and then that helps you, puts you at much less risk for any problems.
We also think, aside from this, that it's there's simply no need for the flu vaccination to be mandatory.
All you need in order to protect the weakest in society is to is to maintain herd immunity.
You don't need a hundred percent of society to be vaccinated for herd immunity.
You need a much lower percentage to attain herd immunity.
So what we think is that the government should not be obligating everyone to vaccinate when it's not actually necessary.
What they should be doing is encouraging people.
They should be encouraging people who are at high risk, and they should be encouraging people who work with people, and live with people, and and visit people who are high risk and, at that point, we think that most societies have enough people vaccinating of their own volition that you can reach herd immunity.
We don't think that there's a real issue today when it comes to the flu vaccination.
We think that risks are minimal.
We think that the at-risk community is quite small.
We think it is their responsibility and the responsibility of their families and their healthcare providers, like, and workers to be the ones who take that responsibility on themselves.
We don't think you can violate my bodily autonomy in order to create a safer environment for other people, when the risk is so small.
We think that this is exactly the kind of case where the government does not need us to to do this, and they should not force us.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.