Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government on the case we should abandon chain stores.
The government spoke to us about how chain stores drive smaller stores out of business, they put store owners out of business, they put local designers and manufacturers out of business and they destroy the character of our towns.
We say on the side of the opposition that the government is looking at a very small part of this big picture.
We will zoom out and look at the big picture together with you and show you how actually the benefits of chain stores are much better for our economy than the small harms that they bring.
So let's look at how it they do affect our economy.
How do chain stores affect our economy?
Do they put people out of business?
Do they put local manufacturers out of business?
Some of them, yes.
Sometimes they do put people out of business.
However, they also create many more jobs than they take away.
A small business is usually run and owned and run by one individual, maybe one other employee in the store.
But when you have big chain stores they're employing hundreds of people, hundreds of manufacturers.
We think that they actually create a lot more jobs than they take away and often the stability that's created from these jobs, right, like these jobs tend to be much more stable than small businesses because small businesses are a much more volatile business.
Small businesses go out of business all the time regardless of whether or not a chain store comes to town.
But chain stores are much more stable employment base to have.
We also think that these chain stores drive down the cost of good immensely.
They can buy large amounts of products in bulk for stores across the country.
That's a huge scaling up from what small businesses can do.
That means that they can also sell those goods at a much lower cost than any single store could.
We think that that helps the poorest people in our society.
We think that that gives us more buying power.
We think that more buying power means that we have the ability to either consume more goods and to spend more on luxury items.
We think that that's great.
We also think that like the government tries to paint this picture of economic despair but more and more jobs are being created and the cost of living drops.
We don't see how that can be how the economic future can be as bad as the opposition is painting and then we hear about the idea of like it affects the character of our towns and that's also a huge problem and we say " let's look at how it affects the character of our towns, does it change things "?
Sure, to an extent it does, but change is not necessarily a bad thing especially not when that change is for the economic benefit of the locals when we have more buying power, etcetera.
The but the bottom line is that we think we believe that some, and we've seen this happen, that some local stores do stay afloat, right?
So which stores succeed and which stores don't?
We think that specialty stores are going to remain in business.
We think that stores that that sell locally sourced items, right, like that's a niche market that is always going to have an audience.
We think that there's still going to be that small town character that you can have or those local businesses that you can have.
It just means that local business owners have to adapt to the market and we don't think that that's a bad thing.
We think that adapting to the market is a good thing.
We think that when consumers want to buy your products they will continue buying your products.
They won't like not everyone is going to buy everything at walmart or target, right?
There are specific items that we want to buy at different stores either locally sourced or or specialty items.
We think that those are the stories that will succeed and that's where business owners should be putting their money and their and their effort into things that people actually want at the higher cost.
People don't want to buy their bread at a higher cost than they have to but they are willing to do it if it's a specialty bread, for example.
We think that that's okay.
That the market can has room for both the chain stores and the specialty markets and that's where we should be encouraging the market to go.
So we think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you look at the big picture it's much better for the economy and people can always decide where they want to shop and they will always have both those options and that's much better than having no chain stores at all.
For these reasons, we beg to oppose.