The government.
Communism at its finest.
If we can't all have it then no one should have it.
It makes no sense, ladies and gentleman, to ban private education when we could simply say people who can afford it, people who get in and people who can get scholarships can have a great time there.
And people who don't can go to the public institutions that already exist and are just fine by most standards.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that this idea of a fundamental equality of access by closing private institutions you're just not going to get it.
That's no such thing as fundamental equality of access.
Nothing will ever be equal in a world where we allow people to possess property in different amounts and where we allow people to to succeed at things that they're good in and not force everyone to have the same amount of smarts.
Typically the people who do go to harvard, yale, princeton, they are the cream of the crop.
Even the huge percent who go there on scholarships, which the government conveniently ignores.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to talk about two main points and through that I'm going to continue with my rebuttal to the other team.
I'm going to talk about the right to education and why we certainly think that we fulfill that even without banning private institution.
And we're going to talk about banning private how how banning private institutions brings down the level of education as a whole.
So first of all the idea of a right to education.
This does not mean that everyone has to get exactly the same education or even the same level of education.
What it means is that everyone is entitled to access to a base level of of education.
To a minimum level of education.
It does not mean that everyone has to has has to have access to all the education that might exist in the world.
Just like we don't force institutions to accept somebody who doesn't meet their standards in terms of smarts, we also think that we don't have to force as as long as there is an institution out there that will accept them for something as long as they can get into community college and get a degree in something, we think that that is fine.
That is enough when it comes to the right to education.
We think that that is fine.
In the same way that we would never been tutoring, although it seems to me as though the government might want to do exactly that.
They might say no it's not fair to have people who can be to who can afford tutoring and some people who can't.
Let's just not let anyone gain any extra education above the level that the public public sector can afford.
We think that that's ridiculous.
We think the people who can't afford above and beyond and who and who are able to succeed above and beyond that's great, and we think the people who can't afford it often are afforded subsidies and we think that that's a wonderful system that should be encouraged.
But second of all this idea that banning private private institutions are somehow going to like make the public education better, it's exactly the opposite.
Right, why?
First of all money will be lost.
You can't assume the people who donate to private institutions today because they went there, because they're they're linked to their alma mater, because they feel because they can name buildings after themselves, if it just goes into this big vast pool of money that gets allocated to everywhere, that they're going to keep giving this money, it's ridiculous.
You won't get those private donations and so there's a lot less money in the system.
Second of all, academia becomes a much less attractive profession.
Right?
Because there are no excellent institutions to strive for.
Because there's less money all around.
Because there's less positions all around, right?
Rather less positions, this is the third thing, because there's going to be less less departments because it's going to be subject to budget cuts, because there's going to be less humanities, for example, departments because governments won't have the money to fund it.
For there are many places around the world where they just won't have any good education at all because today the only good education that they have is by importing branches of private universities privately and this is the education that they can give.
And yes it's true that some people are then not able to afford that good education, but at least there are some people who have access to that education.
It seems ridiculous to tell everybody to deny everyone access to to anyone access to education because not everyone will be able to get it.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal is counterintuitive and will do exactly the opposite of what it intends to do.
Thank you.