Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the government on the motion, we should increase the use of rapid transit.
And let's be honest, it sounds like a no brainer but, in fact, we maintain, on the side of the opposition, that it's not worth the high costs involved.
We think that rapid transit was very innovative in its time, but today it has become outdated and unwanted.
We think that less people are using public transportation today, and this is very important when it comes to making this decision.
Despite pushing people toward public transportation, despite the environmental concerns that people have with it, the fact is that people can and want to use private transportation.
People are more able to afford that that private transportation, and they want to use it.
Why?
It's far more comfortable to drive in your car or even carpool with somebody else than use public transportation.
And why is that so?
First of all, public transportation tends to get extremely dirty.
We think that it's very difficult for people to take mass transit when it means enduring the hot and cold of the stations, for example, right, which is extreme in places like new york, in places like london.
You have this like there's this stereotype of going into the the london tube stations and it being unbearably hot on hot days in the summer.
So we think that cars like are simply more comfortable for people, and because we have more purchasing power today, people are able to afford that private transportation more.
We also think that it's like that it's less dangerous to ride on your own or, at least, like that's the perception.
So we think the people perceive it to be less dangerous because subway platforms and like rapid transit platforms, stations, and the cars themselves are known for crime.
They are high crime rate areas, right?
That includes things like pickpocketing, which is a huge nuisance to deal with and you can lose a lot of money, and your credit cards might be used before you realize that you need to cancel them, etcetera, etcetera.
But we think that it's even worse than that, right?
Like they're also known for sexual crimes, and we think that that's something that scares people and, particularly, women from using these forms of public transportation.
We don't think that increasing the use of it that increasing like the number of rapid transit availability is going to solve that problem.
We think that you're simply increasing trying to increase the use of something that people don't want to use and will refuse to use.
Second of all, we think that there are extremely high costs involved.
And let's remember that rapid transit does not cover its own costs, right?
The the the price the people pay in order to get on the , you know, like the metro, or the tube, or whatever it is almost never covers the cost of using it.
It's always subsidized very, very highly by the government which is using up a lot of our money, especially if people are moving away from this form of transportation.
The start-up cost is incredibly high.
It means either drilling underground with special equipment that is extremely expensive and making sure that the supports are right, or it means or it often means building above the streets.
And we think that that also, like, the start-up costs involved is just incredibly high to make sure to get the infrastructure available, not just the cost in terms of finances, but also the costs in terms of like the the inconvenience of construction for years.
The maintenance costs are incredibly high and energy consumption is also high.
We think that there are newer, more people-friendly forms of transportation that we should be looking into and developing, right?
We should be investing in the future of our technology, not the past.
This was an innovative way of of allowing people transportation, but it's not anymore.
It's not the most fuel efficient.
It's not the best way.
It's not the most comfortable way for people to travel.
If we want to attract people to public transportation, it needs to be comfortable, it needs to be safe, it needs to be fast, and it needs to be energy efficient.
We should be looking to the future of transportation, not the past.
Thank you.