Ladies and gentlemen, I stand proudly on the side of the opposition in the case that tax protester arguments are justified.
Tax protesters hide behind all sorts of bizarre legal arguments about the unconstitutionality of the government taking taxes, but the bottom line, ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of it, tax protesters simply don't want to contribute their part to society.
Government spoke to us about the validity of protesting and that some possible and and and brought to us some possible justifications to withholding taxes as a protest.
To this, we have a number of responses.
First of all, when it comes to legal arguments and constitutional arguments, we think that those belong in a courtroom.
And the fact is that they've been to the courtroom, and they lose time and again.
Tax protesters some tax protesters have brought their constitutional arguments and their legal arguments in front of courts, and they've always lost.
It is rare to find that the legislative, judicial, and executive branches of government are all in such unison on any issue, but on this issue there is agreement.
Tax rates might be debatable, what should be taxed might be debatable, but the fact that taxes, in some form or other, are legal and constitutional is agreed upon.
The fact that income tax is constitutional and legal, that is agreed upon by all three parts of our government: the executive, the judicial, and legislative branches.
And we've seen that, time and again, both with the laws being passed, the executive bodies following through with those laws, and the judicial the the the the judicial system upholding these laws and upholding the fact that the constitution approves of it.
Second of all, we think that being a member of society means that you have rights but you also have very clear duties, and you can't get one without the other.
Taxes are often seen as the government robbing people of their hard-earned money, but the government doesn't keep the money, right?
They invest it back into society: the roads we drive on, the national parks that we enjoy, when there's no government lockdown, the government services that we all benefit from, all of us benefit from it.
There are no citizens who don't benefit at all from these services, and it's unconscionable to put the entire burden of services on other people and not participate at all.
Tax protesters are no more than tax evaders.
Their legal arguments, their constitutional arguments have failed in the courtroom, time and again, and they fail the test of social responsibility and the social contract.
These people mistakenly see themselves as modern-day robin hoods.
But they aren't stealing from the rich when they don't pay taxes.
They're stealing from the poor people in our country.
They're stealing from welfare money.
They're stealing from social services money.
They're stealing from all of us when they steal from our national security budget.
They're stealing money that's earmarked to make our lives, as citizens who do pay taxes, better lives.
We think that these people are no better than thieves, ladies and gentlemen.
We don't we think that you can protest.
We think that you can make arguments in court.
But actually withholding tax money in as a form of protest is no longer a protest, it's removing yourself from society.
It's saying that you demand to receive services without paying your part, without contributing to society properly.
We think that's very problematic, especially when these arguments, when their legal arguments and their constitutional arguments have been thrown out of courtrooms time and again.
Protesting is is okay.
We think that these people can make arguments.
They can bring them to court.
They can write opinion pieces in newspapers.
What they cannot do is withhold money from national services that they themselves benefit from.
Thank you very much.