Ladies and gentleman, we've just heard from the government on the topic of abandoning alimony and we on the side of the opposition we understand why in modern society alimony payments might seem strange.
How unlike in the past, today both genders have access to education, they have access to work opportunities and so it seems unfair to have one ex-spouse burdened with alimony payments for years to come.
However, on a case by case basis we think that it often still is extremely relevant.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that that when you enter a marriage and you make certain decisions together you need to follow through even when the even when you decide that that marriage is no longer relevant.
We think that marriages, even the best ones, are usually not equal partnerships in terms of working in financial contributions.
To be very clear, we on the side of the opposition do not think that it's not good or fair like we don't think that that means that these relationships are not good relationships or fair relationships or equal in a much broader sense.
We simply think that in terms of financial contributions there is often a disparity between what the spouses are bringing in, right?
That is not always the case and in some cases alimony is not appropriate but we don't think that we should abandon it altogether.
So we think that if one that like when you enter a marriage and one spouse says " okay I support your love for medicine I will take a lesser role outside the home in order to allow you the opportunity to study medicine full time and fulfill your dream and become a doctor which requires incredibly long hours, nights and weekends on call, right, but also brings in a lot of money " that doesn't mean that the non-doctor spouse isn't a contributing person in that family, right?
They they might be contributing incredibly fairly, just differently.
So their contribution is not necessarily financial but their contribution comes in terms of time and effort spent on raising the children, taking care of the home, etcetera and these are things that families need in order to survive, right?
Money is not the only thing that matters in the world but when you divorce you can't divide up things like time and effort that has been spent raising the kids but what you can do is say so and so made certain investments or made certain sacrifices in order for the other person it gain more experience outside the home and work longer hours.
So when you break up that marriage, we think it's important that courts take into consideration the other types of investments that people have made in their family.
So they need to take into account the investments made in terms of time and effort and balance that out with the financial contributions made by the other spouse.
So a couple that agrees that one at the beginning of their marriage or at some point during their marriage that one spouse will be more educated and accrue more earning potential through work experience, that spouse owes their their partner stability when they divorce because they both made that like they both made that decision together for one of them it to be more prominent outside of the home and one of them to be more prominent inside the home.
We think that you undervalue the non-financial contributions when you abandon the concept of alimony.
We think that that's problematic in general for the family unit.
We think that it undervalues the contributions to the family that are not financial and we think that that means you get more and more people running after money and not paying attention to their families and we think that that's bad and we also think that it means that often it's the woman who's left with less education, less experience in the workplace and that means less ability to provide for herself and her children after the dissolution of the marriage.
We think that when you enter into a contract, into a union and you make decisions together the consequences of those decisions need to follow you throughout your life even after the dissolution of the partnership.
For these reasons, we think that alimony can be necessary in many cases.
Thank you.