Ladies and gentlemen, the government has told us that we should ban attack ads.
Why?
Because they're mean-spirited, and they are misleading.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, politicians mislead us all the time.
They outright lie, some of the time.
They manipulate facts to show their policies in the best light possible or to show their past like past laws that they passed or past actions they've taken in the best light possible.
They make promises that they have no intention, no power, and no ability to keep.
But as long as they're not making libelous claims or slanderous claims, those two things are already illegal and taken care of under the law, we think it's fine.
We think it's fine for politicians to stand up and say negative things about their opponents, especially because, in many cases, they are true.
A lot of the issues that are brought up in negative ads, in attack ads, are issues that people want to know about, even if they are of a personal nature, even if they are of a negative nature.
We don't think that the fact that it is mean-spirited or that sometimes they are misleading is enough to say that they shouldn't be allowed to use it.
Politicians are allowed to mislead us, it's just the way of the world.
It's impossible not to mislead us.
Why?
Because there are so many ways to read a situation.
Because you can take the fact that the, you know, like, say, the economy has gone up or the economy has gone down, and and pin it to specific things that one side or the other has done, right?
Like, this law has helped us stimulate the economy, right?
Like, who knows?
Maybe there are twenty other laws that happened at the same time that helped it much more, but that's something that politicians are allowed to do.
And it's on us, the citizen, it is our burden to look into that information and make sure that it's true, if we if we want to make that choice, right?
But but like why is it that it's okay to make these claims?
So, first of all, the fact that being negative doesn't mean that it's wrong.
Sometimes these negative attack ads ask very pertinent questions.
When justin trudeau was running for prime minister of canada, the one of the attack ads against him, right, like in a very canadian and fairly polite way, was saying, you know, justin trudeau just not ready.
Maybe he wasn't ready.
That's a legitimate thing to say, right?
It might be less than pleasant to read.
It might be slightly mean.
But it's a legitimate question to ask or a legitimate statement to make, to say " we don't think he's ready to enter politics. "
Let him respond if he thinks that it needs a response.
Let him respond if he thinks that it's an unfair claim to make.
We think that bringing up these issues is not unfair.
We think that showing them in a negative light might not be nice, but it might be necessary in order to bring these issues to light.
So we think that often these negative ads do ask pertinent questions, even when it comes to more personal issues.
So things like does this person treat animals in a cruel way?
Does this person cheat on his wife?
Those are questions that that citizens want to know, because they because when you choose when you elect your leader, you want a moral person to be leading your country.
That's that's a legitimate want to have.
We think that voters are allowed to ask these questions and to want answers to these questions.
Second of all, we think that if you go too far, it backfires, right?
The worst cases backfire, and that makes it okay.
So when jean chretien was the who became the canadian prime minister was mocked for his bell's palsy palsy which caused partial facial paralysis, the PC party took a huge hit in the polls the next day, right?
So these checks and balances exist and they are built into the system, and the consequences exist for the parties that do go too far, because people don't like attack ads that are too negative or that pinpoint things that they don't think are relevant to the debate.
So things like facial features don't matter when it comes to who you're you're electing as prime minister, and so parties are punished for going too far.
So we think that that makes it okay and that we should allow parties to try what they want, and they can be punished by the people if they don't like what they're doing.
But, finally, we think that like people have access to information, so it's your duty, as a citizen, to check up on these facts or decide what is relevant and what is not.
And we think, ladies and gentlemen, that for these reasons, attack ads should not be banned.
Thank you.