Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the government why we should not abandon the paris agreement.
Why?
Because we need to protect the environment, because we need to protect our planet, because we need to think about the future it etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
We put to you the following: first of all, the situation is not nearly as bad as the government purports it to be.
Second of all, the paris agreement specifically has unrealistic goals, it has no enforcement mechanism and it shifts the burden to the poor people in our country and to developing countries and this is something that we find very problematic when it comes to the paris agreement.
First of all, let's talk about the actual situation today.
We don't think that the environmental issue is as bad as the government purports it to be.
We think that the that the earth has been shifting its temperatures long before we've gotten here, it has managed to acclimate itself to whatever species is on the planet and making changes, it manages to deal with the problems effectively and we think that there are enough scientists today who are telling us these things, that are telling us that the situation is not as bad as al gore thinks that we can rely on that and realize that we have time.
We also think ladies and gentlemen, that it's innovation like matters a lot more than trying to mitigate the harms.
We think that allowing people to the the allowing the free market to try and deal with this problem and encouraging people to try and come up with solutions to invent like better ways of of you know driving cars and of fueling cars and better ways to fuel our industries, that's a much better idea than just saying like we need to limit what we're doing today.
We think that actually you need to allow progress to happen even though the the short term progress might pollute in order to allow the free markets work and find better solutions.
We also think that the paris agreement simply has many unrealistic goals.
Its goal like many studies have shown that the goals that were set in the paris agreement are simply unrealistic particularly when it comes to the developing to the developing world.
We don't think that we can stand by them and so we don't think that it's a good agreement.
Like if it's something that we cannot actually like goals that we can't meet, especially if we can't meet them without hurting the poorest people in our societies and the poorest people in the world, we think that we should abandon this particular plan.
Third, we think that there's no enforcement mechanism.
We think it's a ridiculous like it's one of these UN things, right?
Like the UN exists in order to give its opinion but it can't do anything just like the paris agreement.
What is the point of signing an agreement of ratifying an agreement with other countries when no one is obligated in any way, shape or form?
It just means you're setting yourself up for everyone cheating the system.
We don't think it's a good idea.
We'd rather see innovation in private in in in like each country on its own and for countries to set realistic goals for their own countries rather than have an unrealistic, unenforceable mechanism that is just set up for failure.
But fourth, we think and this is a very important part of our argument, we think that that like the paris agreement and generally like any environmental laws that we pass and environmentally like conservation laws etcetera, we think that they always shift the burden to the poorest people in each society and particularly to developing countries, right?
Because those are the people who have the like developing countries are the ones that are polluting the most today but that's simply because we've already gone through our industrial revolution and have like anything that we still need to do that pollutes we simply outsource it to these countries and so it is our like responsibility as the wealthier countries and we can't shift that burden over to them.
That's unfair to outsource our pollution to them and then say " you need to stop your pollution ".
We also think think that within each country the burden on the poorest people is the the biggest burden.
Why?
Because buying costs to the to the cleaner technologies, the buying cost to things that will make it a cleaner society like is very very expensive and that shifts the burden of that expense like whether its products that you buy or specific anything that you buy is going to be on the poorest people in our society and we think that that's a problem and that's why we should not we should abandon the paris agreement.
Thank you.