We have an absurd situation.
The EU and the united states spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year subsidizing tobacco cultivation.
Tobacco is then used to create cigarettes, a product severely regulated by the government's for safety reasons.
They force companies to print health warnings on the boxes of cigarettes.
They slap high taxes on it, and they run programs to try and discourage people from using the product, and end up spending hundreds of millions more on health care for the people who do use the product, and that's why we think that we should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
First let's talk about the moral obligation that we have to deter citizens from smoking.
Well we do agree that banning should be left that banning cigarettes should be left or banning tobacco growth should be left for another debate.
We don't think that it's necessary to ban it.
What we do think is that at the very least we can all agree that governments should not actively encourage people to smoke and the fact is that when you subsidize the growth of the the cultivation of the of the main ingredient in cigarettes, that is exactly what you are doing.
It's sends a very clear message that the tobacco industry is an important industry.
It is a beneficial industry.
It is an industry that is worth supporting and that other people should support and the only other way to support the tobacco industry is to buy cigarettes.
The main product that is being that is that tobacco is used for and we think, ladies and gentlemen, that we would all agree that encouraging people to support the tobacco industry by buying cigarettes is not something that any government is interested in.
Let me ask the more general question of when do we subsidize something and does tobacco fall into the criteria that that is set up.
We only subsidized things when it is a product that is so important that the market cannot be trusted to ensure production and fair access to all, meaning we can't trust that the private industry is going to produce enough of it, that the prices might not be fair, or that their production will somehow not be not be of of good enough quality for people to enjoy.
How silly is it to think that this is the case here.
How silly is it to think that tobacco is something where the government should step in to make sure that there's fair access to all, to make sure that the prices aren't too high, to make sure that there is a good enough quality tobacco for everyone to enjoy.
Subsidies must be limited only to the most essential goods and to make sure that people have access to things like clean water, fruits and vegetables, that type of thing is the only place where governments should even consider subsidizing something subsidizing a product.
So what we think, ladies and gentleman, is that the government has a moral obligation to deter citizens from smoking and to do that they have to stop the subsidization of the tobacco industry.
We think that in in purely economical sense it makes it there's no reason to subsidize the tobacco industry.
We don't think that it makes sense.
It's not an essential good.
It is not something where the government should be interfering in the free market.
We think that there is no good reason for the government to spend our hard earned money, our tax dollars, on subsidizing a dangerous plant that is used in the production of a deadly product that kills hundreds of thousands of people every year and for these reasons, we absolutely should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.