Ladies and gentlemen, we heard from the government that we should subsidize adult learners.
And why is that the case?
Because we should afford them opportunities that they didn't have earlier in life, because it helps them integrate into the workforce, and it gives them a better life altogether.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that that is absolutely ridiculous.
We think, first of all, if we were to subsidize anything at all, we would prefer to subsidize vocational studies rather than allow adult learners to learn whatever they want.
Why is that the case?
Because when you choose to go back to study at a later age in life, you often try to get degrees like you go in and you learn liberal arts, or you try and get a degree that might seem lucrative but won't be.
For example, law school by night, where a lot of people like many adults try to get a law to attain a law degree by studying after work because they think it's going to be lucrative.
They have a dream of becoming a hotshot lawyer, but the reality is that no jobs are available in that field, or they have like they only accept people from top law firms.
And the reality is that you're setting them up for failure, because they spend this money, or spend your money, going to law school and end up with a degree that doesn't really help them, because there are no jobs available in in the field that they dreamt of going into, of entering.
So we think, ladies and gentlemen, that, first of all, we have this idea of false promises, right?
Getting a degree does not necessarily mean that you will succeed in that field, and we think that governments need to realize this and save their money.
Second of all, we don't think that governments should be paying at all.
Why?
We think that governments offer education, free education, at a younger age to give equal opportunities for all.
If the people who end up as adult learners didn't take that opportunity when they were younger and didn't take that opportunity to begin with, why do we think that it's likely that these people are going to succeed now, later in life?
The fact is that even with a degree, it is very difficult for them to enter the workforce when the work force isn't specifically looking for them.
When you're at an older age, it's harder to get into the workforce.
We think, again, it's setting them up for failure.
The fact that they'll end up with a degree does not mean that they will end up with a more lucrative job than they have today.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want to end up in like, you know, a high tech company or you want to end up a lawyer, the only people who are going to succeed at doing that later in life are the people who are going to do it of their own volition, who are going to scrape scrimp and save to be able to afford it, who are going to work incredibly hard to get to where they need to be.
Those are the only people who it's worth it to do it for, because those are the qualities that these companies and these employers will be looking for.
And that won't be the case when it's simply subsidized and anyone can do it at the expense of the government.
We also think that the private sector simply does a much better job of retraining when it needs certain types of employees.
So we think, ladies and gentlemen, that where opportunities do exist, the private sector does a really good job of offering courses to train specifically for jobs where there are openings.
So, for example, if you retrain as a technical writer through a company that has that employs technical writers, that's a much better decision for you to make.
And we think that a lot of these companies give benefits to those people who succeed at their courses and, therefore, only people who are likely to succeed will sign up and take that risk.
We think that that's a much better solution when it comes to market to filling the needs of the market, because at the end of the day, that's what we need to do.
We need to look at the market and say, are there holes in the market, are there places for these people to actually utilize the degrees that they're going to be getting because, otherwise, subsidizing adult learning is simply a waste of money.
We don't think that there's anything wrong with adults who have jobs that are not in high tech, that are not making, you know, like that that are in in that are not lawyers, that are not doctors.
That's fine.
But don't fool yourselves into thinking that if the government pays for your education, then all of a sudden you will get a good job or a better-paying job than what you have today.
We think that when there is a market gap, when there are jobs that come up, when there are sectors that need it, the private sector will do a much better job of incentivizing people to come and study with them, and learn with them, and then be employed by them.
For these reasons, we would not subsidize adult learners.
Thank you very much.