Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the government that paid time off should be mandatory and let us state that we do agree with the importance of time off for workers in general.
What we think on the side of the opposition is that we need to ask ourselves the question what is the best way to achieve fair employment rights?
And on our side of the argument, we maintain that a free market is always better than a market where the government interferes.
Why is this the case?
When it comes to mandatory minimums, right, we think that mandatory minimums often become maximums and that is a huge problem.
We see this with minimum wage and we will see this also with minimum mandatory paid time off.
When companies are told, when employers are told that they have to ensure a specific amount of time off for their employees, right, when you have to give x number of days off, or as is the case with minimum wage, we see that more and more companies will give only the minimum and they actually become the maximum.
It becomes much harder to enter a workplace and say " we demand more than the minimum wage " or " we demand more than the minimum amount of time off ".
Why?
Because companies can say " but we are abiding by the law ".
The law says that this is enough for you.
We think that if the law simply doesn't address it, it doesn't mean that it's sending the message that it's not necessary at all at all.
What it means is that it's saying that companies should should decide for themselves what their minimum is, right?
Because in different industries there also are different like a different needs.
We think that teachers, for example, have different needs than people who work in high tech.
Working with thirty four children is a different kind of frustrating than working on a programming code.
We think that different types of jobs necessitate different conditions, working conditions and we think that when the government interferes with the free market and says everyone in the free market, everyone in the marketplace needs to have x number of days off, then even in industries where they should have more days off or in industries where they can afford more days off or in industries where employees need more days off, they're not going to get it because minimums become maximums when governments interfere with the free market.
We think it's very dangerous when this happens.
We think it means that like worker demands become less important because because employees can always say " we've checked the box we're doing what the government has told us to do ".
So when it comes to things like days off for like paid time off, we think for example that many companies in in many companies it makes sense to give in all companies like it makes sense to give paid time off for like sick days.
We think that like sick days are important, vacation days are important, maternity leave is important.
We think all these things have some have like importances in our society and should be part of every workplace.
But when the government says like there is you know you should have x number of vacation days, then it's very easy for companies to say " well there you go you got x number vacation days just like the government says so but beyond that we give you nothing ".
So if you decide to give birth, you need to use your vacation days for that and you need to come back after that short amount of time.
If you decide to go on vacation then you use your paid time off.
If you get sick you use your paid time off.
We think it becomes harder for employees to negotiate better contracts when the government has set minimums because they employees employers see those minimums as maximums and that makes worst conditions for workers.
We think ladies and gentlemen, that if we want to achieve the best employment rights within each industry we need to allow markets to work on their own and allow employees to negotiate their own deals.
Thank you very much.