Ladies and gentlemen, we heard from the government the criticism of the BBC is is exaggerated.
I'm here to tell you that that simply isn't the case.
The criticism of the BBC is legitimate criticism that needs to be taken quite seriously.
First of all, we think that the government has failed to recognize that much of the criticism towards the BBC is criticism of the licensing fee, which gives them an unfair advantage over other media providers and raises the barrier and the the entry barrier into the field immensely.
We think that when you take that issue and compound it with reports of biased reporting, that means that the people of britain are left with one monopoly of a media giant feeding them impartial information.
That's unfair to citizens to citizens of a democracy where freedom of and access to information is so, so important.
Let's talk about the licensing fee.
Basically, this is a fee where everyone in the united kingdom, in order to have a television that has access to that to government channels, you have to pay a fee, a licensing fee.
The licensing fee goes mainly to the BBC.
That means that the BBC is provided with income in excess of five billion pounds a year.
That's over six billion US dollars.
Let's bear in mind this means that a large chunk of the BBC income comes directly from the government, money that the government has collected from us and then doled out to and then doled out to the BBC.
We think that already we have a propensity towards biased reporting when this huge media giant is indebted to the government for and and and and for its money.
We think it also makes it much harder for others to enter the field.
We think that the BBC can afford to overstaff and dominate coverage of absolutely every event, news events, sports events, cultural events, effectively crowding out other media sources.
This is wasting government funds simply to assert dominance and remain an effective monopoly in the media world.
We think, ladies and gentlemen, that when you take that and you realize that we do have a some sort of a monopoly here that is preventing other people from coming in to the field, and then you look to specific issues of media bias, we think that these are very dangerous.
Look to the cultural of sexual harassment that has that has started to come to light within the BBC.
This is obviously being underreported, because the BBC itself has a monopoly over the media and so they don't have to report on what goes on within the BBC.
We think that it's very dangerous when we start hearing leaks about these allegations, but we haven't heard anything about it from the largest new source in the UK.
We think that that's legitimate criticism that we need to hear.
We look towards the israeli-palestinian conflict, which is one of the largest examples where criticism comes to the BBC.
We see three types of media bias when it comes to the israeli-palestinian conflict.
First of all, we see simply errors in reporting on events that show israel in an extremely bad light and show media bias towards israel ; we also see so so things like saying that the israeli government retaliated in a certain way when it simply didn't, that israel attacked a destroyed a home, when it didn't do so.
We also see second of all, we see that the BBC does not give israel the benefit of the doubt when when covering certain events so, for for example, and it's used public opinion against israel.
So, for example, putting quotation marks around the word terrorist when reporting about a terrorist attack that happened.
And third of all, simply having harsh opinions that mar news coverage.
We think that these allegations are very serious, especially in light of the fact that this is a monopoly that receives money from the government in order to to maintain its status as a monopoly.
We think it's a dangerous and legitimate criticism that we discuss it.
Thank you.