Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the side of the government on the motion we should encourage a third political party.
We say two political parties are more than enough for us to handle and we don't think that adding a third political party to the mix is a good idea but really what we think is that the government doesn't actually get what it wants to achieve.
So the government spoke to us about the importance of representation in democracy and how a third political party means that more people are actually getting representation because you can allow like more people can find a party that suits them when you have an additional party offering their ideas.
We say that's simply not true.
One of two things happens when you add a third political party to the mix.
The first option, and this is like like the most likely option, is that the third party remains very small and inconsequential and the only result is that the people who voted for them end up wasting their vote on a party that will never actually do anything for them.
They can't follow through on their promises.
They don't have any political power whatsoever.
They rarely make it into government at all even in like non-presidential systems you won't you won't get any power from supporting that party and so you actually cause less representation because at least when these people are voting for parties that are slightly less representative of them they can still affect those parties by you know like when they are their constituents as opposed to saying " I'm no longer a part of this party I belong to this third political party which has no power to do anything at all ".
The other option excuse me the other option is that the third party gets enough power to create an alliance with one of the two parties that currently exists.
This gives far too much power to a party that doesn't represent the majority of the people.
They tend to represent a very small specific part of society.
Third parties tend to have niche like very niche goals so they represent a very specific sector of society with very specific needs but if they manage to gain that power, if we encourage third political parties to to exist and they gain this power, they gain far too much power because they become the alliance builders.
They become the people who can support the government, right, because the vote is now split between three parties it is harder to get a a a clear majority and so one of the larger parties needs to side with the small party and then what happens?
These parties have so much power because they hold the key to power in their hands.
They say they come to the other two parties and they say " here are our demands whoever gives them to us that is the party that we will join right?
If you give in to what we want " but that's not representation.
That is over-representation for specific niche needs, right?
We see this happen in the israeli government all the time with like for example the ultra-orthodox parties.
They have a large constituency that votes for them simply because the rabbis tell them to do so.
They had very specific needs that have to do only with their communities but because they get that third party vote, because they have this niche market that they have been like and they've been encouraged to create these parties, then they hold a lot of power in the government and they tend to hold governments hostage.
They say " if you don't do what we want, if you don't raise payments for our schools, if you don't raise payments for you know these things that we want, or give us certain like whatever it is that we want, we will leave the government and you will like the government will fall ".
So what we think is that you get a less stable government with over-representation for small minorities in the community.
We think that that's dangerous when it comes to a democracy.
We think that over-presentation for minorities is bad and we think that strong and stable governments are more important than than what you're discussing.
We think that it is good to encourage other forms of political activities so that you can affect a strong and stable two party system.
So things like you know like protesting, things like joining lobbying groups or lobbying the government, there are other ways to be politically active that is not a that will not destabilize the government.
Thank you very much.