Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government that jury duty should not be mandatory.
Why is this so?
Because certain cases can make people feel uncomfortable.
Because there is a large time commitment.
We say, ladies and gentlemen, that having jury duty be mandatory for all citizens is extremely important if we want our judicial system to work properly.
We say that if jury duty isn't randomly selected from all walks of life, it becomes skewed and detrimental to the justice system.
We also think that it is a duty, and people need to be less selfish and recognize that while democracy intends to tries to maximize our individual rights, it also demands of us certain duties to create society and uphold the values that we believe in in our society.
And that's extremely important to remember.
So we say, what happens when jury duty isn't mandatory?
Two main things: one, the the justice system becomes more extreme, and two, the justice system becomes more prejudiced.
So let's discuss these two issues.
Let's discuss, first, the issue of the justice system becoming more extreme.
Why is this so?
Because the people who self-select to be on jury duties, the people who choose to become jurors are those who will have very strong thoughts about our justice system, right?
Most people want to get out of jury duty.
Most people don't want to sit in a courtroom and and listen to what is usually a very boring trial.
They don't want to have to take time off of work.
They don't want to have to have the risk of being sequestered from their families for who knows how long.
These are things that people simply don't want to do and will try and and often try to get out of.
We think that if we turn this into a not a mandatory thing, we're going to have very few people who want to do it, and the type of people who will choose to volunteer for jury duty are exactly the kind of people that courts try to avoid using when choosing jurors today.
Why?
Because they come with preconceptions about the case.
They come with preconceptions about how the law's supposed to work and what they think about punishments.
They think they tend to think that they're experts on on judicial matters.
They often have particular issues that they feel are very important to make a point about.
We think these are exactly the kind of people we don't want.
These are people who tend to support harsher punishments or support lesser punishments.
Those are people we don't want coming in with preconceptions and trying to make a point about what should happen to the judicial system as a whole.
We want people who don't actually care.
We want people to come in, listen to the case at hand, say what they think about the case at hand, and that's it, without a preconceived agenda.
And that's who you get when you when you when you make it not mandatory, we think you get a more extreme judicial system with more extreme punishment.
We don't want that to happen.
Second of all, we think that the judicial system becomes much more prejudiced.
Why?
Who can afford to go to jury duty?
It's wealthier people, and that means white people as well, right?
People who are at lower-paying jobs, they're jobs, especially once jury duty becomes not mandatory, they're going to not allow their employees to go on jury duty.
It doesn't matter if it's legal or not, it's just the way that it happens, right?
You can lose your job if you don't show up at work.
So poor people, african americans, other minority groups, they're the ones who won't show up for jury duty.
But it's exactly those minorities that are overrepresented when it comes to being defendants in cases, right?
Drug cases.
We know that there's disproportionate amounts of people of african americans being being brought up on charges in the united states.
So how is it a jury of their peers if it's, then, wealthy white people who can afford to take the day off of work or be at a courthouse, because they have preconceived notions about the justice system?
How is that considered a jury of your peers?
We think that it takes the judicial system and it turns it into a more prejudice judicial system.
These are very dangerous things we don't want to happen.
Thank you very much.