Ladies and gentlemen, we've just heard from the government why motorcycle helmets should be mandatory.
And we've heard for for the duration of their speech about the safety benefits when it comes to using motorcycle helmets, and therefore the government should force people to protect themselves, right?
That there's no downside to using a helmet, there's only a benefit, health benefit, so why not make people protect themselves?
We say, as the opposition, a few things.
First of all, we agree that it is safer to ride with a helmet.
However: one, is the government justified in forcing me to protect myself?
Two, government laws need to be consistent.
And three, there actually are some benefits to not wearing a helmet.
So let's start at the beginning.
Is the government justified in forcing me to protect myself?
We say: no, it's not.
The government doesn't force people to protect themselves in many other situations, and they shouldn't in this one either.
Why?
Because making bad decisions are legitimate in a democracy.
It is okay for me to make a decision that the government doesn't agree with.
It is okay for me to make a bad decision.
It is okay for me to make a decision that puts my life and my health at risk.
That is what democracy is all about.
Governments don't force us, for example, like, don't pass laws saying that you have to use condoms when you have sex with people that you're not in a long-term committed relationship with, even though the risk of contracting an STD is very high, even though the risk of getting pregnant is high, etcetera, etcetera.
The government doesn't force us to do this because they make sure that we are aware of the consequences of our actions, we are aware of the risks involved with unprotected sex, just like we're aware of the risks involved with riding a motorcycle without a helmet, and at that point, the government says, " go ahead and make your decision. "
Especially in this case, where there is no harm to other people when we make this decision, we think that it's a legitimate decision to make, even if it's a bad one.
Second of all, we think that there needs to be consistency within government laws.
So if the government tells me that I have to protect my head, what about protecting my knees when I'm riding my motorcycle?
What about forcing me to wear a special the special motorcycle jackets that have airbags in them so that I get less injuries, right?
Like at what point does the government say, this is important for you to protect and this isn't?
We think that perhaps the government should be banning motorcycles altogether because they are more dangerous than other forms of transportation, but of course the government can't do that.
The government can't infringe too far on my freedoms, and they know that.
The helmet protects only myself, and it only protects one particular organ in my body, right?
The risks are known to driving without a helmet.
The government should not interfere with my choice, just like it doesn't interfere with all the other choices I make: like not wearing knee pads, like not wearing the special jacket designed to protect me in accidents, etcetera, etcetera.
The government needs to let me allow me the choice to drive a motorcycle, which is a more dangerous form of vehicle than other types, and allow me to do so in any way that I wish to do so, as long as I am not endangering other people.
Third, there actually are benefits to riding without a helmet, right?
Not everyone will agree with this being a benefit, but the idea of having subjective views is what makes democracy a democracy.
So we need to recognize the fact that some people see benefits to riding without a helmet.
And what are those benefits?
Riding riding a motorcycle, often, for certain people, right, is about taking risks.
It's about the freedom involved in feeling the wind in your hair when you drive down the road.
It's about it being a risky vehicle that is more likely to get into accidents and being able to to control this vehicle.
And for those people, not wearing a helmet makes the experience a better, more powerful experience, right?
If they're not putting other people at risk, we don't see a reason to limit their ability to enjoy this experience, whether or not we think that they are stupid for doing so.
So for these reasons, for the fact that like while there is a safety risk involved, we don't think that it's the government's place to interfere, we beg you to oppose.
Thank you.