Our bodies are wonderful things.
They can run, jump, lift weights, twist and twirl and somersault, or at least some bodies can do those things, but the truth is that some bodies do more than others.
Some bodies can be trained to do more than others and some bodies, when enhanced by natural means, can do even more than they could do that before and why should that be wrong?
We should legalize doping in sports including all chemicals that all chemicals or other natural means of enhancing bodily functions so long as it doesn't cause harm to others.
Let's think first of all what is sports?
Sports is a performance art.
Why do we watch it?
We watch it because we can watch people pushing the boundaries of the abilities that they have.
Pushing the boundaries of what our bodies can do.
We see new tricks every year.
Look at the olympics and how we've progressed.
The difference between the olympics fifty years ago and today is enormous.
Can see the difference in the gymnastics routines.
In the difference between a very slow calculated movement, very slow somersaulting, for example, and today the twists and twirls and jumps that we've pushed ourselves into being able to do.
It's fascinating to watch and that's why we do watch sports.
We're drawn to it and it's always been something that people do.
We have always been fans of pushing the limits and if sports is a performance art, then why shouldn't we try to enhance their performance as much as possible?
That moves me to my second point that enhancing is already an inherent part of sports and it's very natural thing to do.
The cereal athletes eat, the shoes that they wear, the anti-friction shirts and swim caps that they don, whether or not they shave their entire bodies bodies or parts of it to reduce friction in the water, the exercise routines that they take upon themselves that would, let's be honest, kill most of us, all of these are performance enhancers and yet we pretend that they are vastly different from somebody taking a drug.
Why is that?
Why is drug a dirty word?
Why is performance enhancement become a dirty word?
The fact is that most of the drugs that we have, that are on offer, are legal for use outside of sporting competitions and even the ones that aren't if there's no harm to anyone aside from the athlete we think that even they should be allowed in the context of sports.
Why?
Drugs are very natural.
They enhance the performance of the body.
They are plant extracts and chemicals designed no different from vitamins or a good diet except they specialize in enhancing specific parts of the body.
They may build the muscles better if it's steroids, for example, or other types of medications.
We think, ladies and gentleman, that it's silly for us to put some sort of random line between what we eat, our diet for example, but things that aren't considered food if they come in medical form, if they come in pill form, if they come in some sort of a prescription form, that shouldn't be allowed.
We think, ladies and gentleman, that if we really want to promote this the art of sport, if we really want to be able to keep advancing in sports, if we want to see people pushing the limits and seeing what bodies can do, if we want to be able to specialize in new sports and and see how far the human body can can go, than we do need to allow performance enhancing drugs.
We do need to allow doping and we think that the term doping perhaps has a negative connotation but the fact is that it is no different from eating a healthy breakfast.
It is no different from wearing athletic shoes.
It's no different from a number of different things that we already allow in the sporting world and that's why we should also allow doping in sports.