Endangered species are plants or animals at risk of going extinct.
Sometimes the cause is unrelated to man but often hunting, land development, and human changes to local environments are the causes of the impending extinction.
That is why we should protect endangered species.
Let me talk first about the moral obligation that we have to the animal and plant world.
Both because we are a moral people and because we have a moral obligation as the perpetrators of the crime in most cases, we are obligated to conserve these species.
Let's remember that we are capable of helping.
There are ways that we can protect endangered species, be they plants, be they animals.
We have lots of different ways, including limiting certain land development in certain areas, protecting species by bringing them in in guarded environments and then releasing them back into the wild, limiting hunting, things like that.
And we are a moral people as a whole.
We created morality and we have an obligation to ourselves to be good people and to help others when we are able, and that does include other species - those who we use when we need to, but we should be benevolent in cases where we can be.
Moreover since we are the cause of most of the damage to the plants and animals, and they are now largely dependent on us in terms of maintaining the environment, we have an obligation to them in that sense.
In the sense that we've created dependency on humans and we now need to take care of them.
But let's be honest, because morality is important but we are very selfish people.
And we need to look at our interests as well.
And is it in our interest?
It absolutely is in our interest to to preserve endangered species.
First of all, because the loss of animals and plants means a loss of medicines.
Whether it's a unique compound found in a plant or the venom mused from arachnids and sneaks to cure certain diseases, or or the organs that are similar similar enough to humans to be used in research.
So much of our health and so much of the research into health areas is dependent on a thriving ecosystem.
We think it's vastly important, when we wanna when we wanna keep inventing drugs and finding new drugs and being able to produce drugs and being able to cure diseases, it is it is of vital importance that we keep every single species that we possibly can in order to investigate them.
Because the answers are generally found in plants and animals.
That's where we get our healing powers from.
And then we have to say what is the ecological value, right?
Or in the sing song words of disney - the circle of life.
Because it's easy to think about the the loss of animals and plants as and dismiss it and say: " it's just one plant.
Who cares?
Or it's three plants.
Who cares? "
But it's not.
Because when you lose one plant or when you lose one animal, it creates a chain reaction that affects the rest of the environment.
It creates a chain reaction that could lead to the extinction of three or four or five more species in that area that are dependent on that specific animal, or bug, or plant that they were eating in in order to survive.
And so when you have these kinds of of links, this chain reaction that you that can be set off when one animal or one plant goes extinct, we think we have an even greater interest in ensuring that there is as little damage as possible to these animals and that nothing goes extinct.
That we preserve every species that we possibly can.
It is in our own best interest and it is our moral obligation to protect endangered species ladies and gentlemen.
And so we must invest in this.
Thank you.