Freedom of religion and freedom from religion are too important flip sides of the same coin.
We need to respect both and strike a balance between them.
While in the past blasphemy laws may have been used as an overzealous tool by religious leaders, today there is real concern on the part of religious people, strict adherence to organized religion, in democratic countries.
They feel discriminated against, marginalized and threatened.
That is why we should criminalize blasphemy.
Make it illegal to preach or publicly speak in an insulting and derogatory way about organized religion or god.
Let's talk about hate speech because that's essentially what we have here.
Even when it is not directly inciting to violence, hate speech laws exist in many places around the world.
Why?
Because linking offensive speech or negative attributes with certain groups through language changes the way we see this group and can far too easily, and often does lead to violence, which of course is something that cannot be tolerated in any democratic society.
What blasphemy does is link people who adhere to organized religion into one group that can be ridiculed, looked down upon and treated as less than.
Hate speech is dangerous, and often a thinly veiled attempt at incitement to violence.
While blasphemy is often directed at god, the context is almost always linked with those who adhere strictly to religions, and they are the ones who feel threatened by this speech and truly feel that there is a threat upon them.
And that is the next point that we need to discuss.
The question of how do we determine when speech is offensive to the extent that we need to take action, to the extent that it is hate speech?
We think, ladies and gentleman, that it's not enough to just be it's not enough to only look at the speech that is being said, the words that are being spoken, but the way they make the people who hear them feel.
And we think that when groups feel threatened to the extent that they feel that they are in true physical danger, we think that that is when we need to take action.
We think that in today's society, particularly in the days of where where so many groups are turning against each other in the united states, where we see so much strife, where we see so many political groups turning against each other, when we see so many minorities being treated badly, we think we need to take special care to look to these minorities and and talk to them and realize what affects them.
We think, ladies and gentleman, that if you look towards organized religion, if you look towards religious groups and you ask them whether or not they feel threatened, they do.
They feel threatened by groups that discuss religion in a cavalier way, in a way that that that is insulting, in a way that that is derogatory.
We think that they feel threatened by that because they're not sure what's gonna happen next.
Because we live in a time where it can very easily lead to violence.
And so in the question of freedom of speech versus protection of citizens, we say in the same way that we wouldn't allow hate speech against african americans or native americans, rather minority groups, we must recognize organized religion as a group that is being targeted with hate speech disguised as blasphemy.
And for this reason we must we must make blasphemy, we must outlaw blasphemy and criminalize it.
Thank you very much.