Technology is wonderful.
And if we're being honest, so is chocolate, bissli, a cold can of coke.
The problem is the combination of these in such extreme proportions, especially among children today.
Children are eating more and more junk food and they're spending more time in front of their television, computers, tablets and phones.
This means less time running around outside and less broccoli, and a lot more fat, a lot more clogged arteries, a lot more child diabetes and other health-related problems that we never used to see at such a young age.
It is for this reason that we believe physical education must be mandatory in schools, and we need a lot of it.
We think that physical education is no less important than learning history.
Schools are not just about learning learning from the past, it's not just about learning math, rather we expect our children to receive an education, a life education.
And when you are at such a young age, we think that it is essential that you get as much physical activity as possible for many reasons.
First of all, it is habit-forming.
The more often children have physical education, the more often they play sports, the more often they are let outside to play, the more often they're going to do so later on in life.
Why?
Because the more you do something when you're young, the more you're likely you are to do it when you're older.
The more that's the reason, for example, why we give homework in the first grade.
Why?
Because we think it's important that children learn how to sit down and do work, and once they get the hang of it at a young age, they're more likely to be able to do so at an older age.
And the same is true as for physical education.
The more likely the more we we we build in this habit at a young age, the more likely they are to continue doing sports, to enjoy doing sports, and to enjoy physical activity as part of their day-to-day life.
We think that moreover, we have a problem today with children not getting physical education outside of school.
Why is this the case?
For a number of reasons.
First of all, children are spending more time in school and in and in programs run by schools because parents are working longer and longer days.
It's also very easy for parents to sit their kids in front of a television, for example, or in front so that they can get more work done at home or so that they can cook dinner.
And these are options that didn't used to exist in the past and that do now.
Moreover, we have problems with safety at parks.
We think the parents are more and more afraid of taking their children to parks because they have to stand right next to them in order to make sure that nobody else comes up to them.
There cases of child abductions in the united states which scare parents from taking their children to the park, pedophiles, there too many concerns that that impede parents from taking their children outside to get physical activity.
We think that schools are a very safe place for children to get physical activity.
We think that they're safer than parks because they're supervised, they're enclosed, and you have age-appropriate activities that these children can be engaging in.
It also means that you get the benefits of team sports, for example, which which enhance social cohesion in schools, which encourages teamwork.
There are lots of benefits that are involved, that are very appropriate for a school situation, for teachers to be involved with, in order to make sure that it's really an educational experience and not just running around the schoolyard, but that there're benefits beyond the just the physical aspect.
We think that that's also important.
And, of course, we have the question of whether or not children should be allowed to make this choice on their own, there are children who might not enjoy it, but the fact is that children are not allowed to make these choices on their own.
We entrust parents to make most decisions for parents but parents for children, but parents entrust the government they to with their children when they send them to schools for between a hundred and eighty and three hundred days of the year , you know, between five hours and eight hours a day, these kids are spending in in in a schoolyard environment.
And we need to make sure that we take that seriously and we give them a full education that includes physical education, and that we take their physical situation and their health situation very seriously in these cases.
And that's why physical education must be mandatory.