Six million jews were burned, shot, beaten and starved to death during the holocaust.
That number doesn't even take into account the number of homosexuals, roma, communists and mentally handicapped people subjected to the same fates.
Holocaust denial is a growing trend that asserts that the holocaust is a jewish conspiracy manufactured to justify the creation of the state of israel or to to extract restitution funds from germany.
Deniers will often try to focus on one specific fact about the holocaust and try to disprove or minimize it, and feel the by doing so they've proven the whole thing to be a myth.
We believe that this kind of speech is hateful and and , it is hateful and therefore and dangerous and therefore holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
First of all, we think that this is direct incitement to violence.
Anyone listening to a holocaust denier is hearing a message loud and clear: the jews are lying.
The jews are perpetrating a massive conspiracy.
The jews are stealing money from germany in the form of reparations for something that never happened.
And if jews do all those things, they are dangerous.
The conclusion is forgone.
There is no other take away other than to think that we are that we need to get revenge on the jews, protect ourselves against the jews.
Violence against jewish people is absolutely imminent after speeches such as these.
This is exactly the definition of hate speech.
It is speech that is targeting a specific group and opens the door to violence against them.
Second of all we think that there is a huge danger of proliferation.
There is absolutely no question that the holocaust happened.
There is no question.
It is of the utmost importance that we never forget what happened and what true evil looks like.
Because if we forget what it looks like, if we forget how we got to a place where entire countries were willing to turn over their jewish communities and their homosexuals and their roma and allow them to be driven, taken away to death camps and burned in ovens, we think that we are doomed to repeat ourselves if we forget that.
So the fear is that too many of these holocaust deniers have an aura of academia.
They they present their work work as fact.
And in some cases they are mistaken by people who are not aware enough, who don't know how to how to distinguish between fact and fiction, who don't realize that these people are not experts in their field and have an agenda.
They are being tricked.
There's a fraud being perpetrated against the public by these people.
Today, especially with the internet, these holocaust deniers can reach wide audiences.
There's a dangerous spread of misinformation going on, that would change the course of that would change history and allow us to forget what was done, or worse or alongside blaming the jewish people for conspiracy and allow this to happen again out of fear from the jews.
We think that generally speaking we let people say what they want.
We let stupid people say what they want, we let wrong people say what they want.
But when it comes to dangerous speech, when it comes to a dangerous group of people saying a dangerous statement over and over again, trying to persuade people that there's a group of people perpetrating fraud that is not being that never been perpetrated.
We think that when there is a danger to a specific group, ad in this case the jewish people, when there's a danger to the course of history, when people are trying to change what happened, we think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to stop that speech and that is why we must criminalize holocaust denial.