We should subsidize biofuels.
So, biofuels, for those who aren't aware, are fuels similar to gas or diesel, which are made from plant material, as opposed to you know fuels that are taken out of the ground as minerals.
So ethanol, for instance, is generally made from corn, in countries like the US and brazil.
Biodiesel is made from various sources and is more popular in the european union and india.
So, with this in mind, we think that there are two main reasons why they should be subsidized, and you know by subsidize we think that the state should make it less expensive to produce these biofuels, through tax credits and things like that.
Too big arguments.
The first is about sustainable growth.
So, to start out with: any country's economic growth is dependent on their ability to access cheap energy.
What does this mean?
If your country relies heavily on gasoline or diesel, then your growth is going to be stunted in the long term, because the cost of those energy sources will only increase as they become more scarce.
There's a finite amount of crude oil in the ground from which to make these fuels, which means that as we extract more and more oil from the ground, it will become more expensive in the long term.
Scientist fifteen years ago thought there would be something called peak oil, where oil would get so expensive no one could afford it anymore.
That seems to have been averted by the invention of fracking, and the discovery of other oil sources, but it does seem that, you know, if you're thinking forty to fifty years down the line, it's much better to invest in an energy source that replenishes itself, rather than one which will run out, even if it doesn't run out for another two hundred years.
On top of that though, we think you should subsidize it because it promotes growth in terms of your economy, we see that this is a new industry which is booming.
The infrastructure that you create, by subsidizing the production of biofuels, is going to be useful infrastructure over the long term.
If you build more oil refineries, or if you more extraction facilities, say if the US and mexico continue to extract more and more oil from the gulf of mexico, those facilities are fundamentally useless once you've extracted the oil from underneath them, and eventually they'll all be useless, when we run out of oil to begin with.
If you invest in plants refined corn though, well, corn hopefully isn't going anywhere, we'll be able to produce energy with this infrastructure for hundreds of years, or to build off of it, to build and develop even better future infrastructure and discovering new technologies, that will let us use this technology even more efficiently.
So ultimately, we think you should subsidize biofuels, because it will promote sustainable long term development within your country.
Our second argument for why you should subsidize biofuels is to promote self sufficiency for your country, in terms of energy as opposed to imports.
Remember that, only a few countries in the world actually produce all of the oil that they use.
Even a country like america, or a country like mexico, both of which produce lots of oil, still import oil from other countries like venezuela.
We see that many of the world's largest economies, like china, have virtually no oil production, or very little compared to their consumption, so they're very dependent on imports.
We think that, you should subsidize biofuels because you can produce them in your own country, which means that the wealth that they create, and also the money that you would have spent on imports, now stays in your own economy.
Effectively, this is a way to promote reinvestment, because, for instance, in china if they were to subsidize these biofuels, that would be capital that's being put back into china, paying chinese laborers rather than going to russia or mexico to buy oil.
We think that, on top of that, for countries which rely heavily on oil, subsidizing these biofuels will give them a path to remain sustainable in the future.
A country like russia that is basically a petro state, can guarantee their future economic stability, by supporting this business to replace the oil industry, once that is no longer sustainable.
So for these reasons, we should subsidize biofuels.
Thank you.