We're not going to just argue that we think that school uniforms can be good, we actually think that school uniform should be required, on our side of the debate.
So, two broad arguments, both of which were expected of course by the previous speaker but which I think are still important to this issue.
The first is about why we think uniforms are an equalizing force in education, and the second is about how we access better education.
So I'm going to introduce these two arguments and have a bit of rebuttal afterwards.
So as far as, uniforms as an equalizer in education.
We think that oftentimes students are bullied because of low quality clothing, or lack of style, or appearing different than other students and that uniforms reduce this by making all students dress more similarly.
It's impossible to bully someone for not wearing, you know, the right basketball shoes or whatever it might be in a given school, when everyone is wearing the same shoes.
But on top of that, we think that this gives students more confidence.
If students feel bad about the way that they look, then they're not going to feel confident about other aspects of their well-being.
You know, students are young people who don't fully understand their own identity yet, and oftentimes may not have a lot of confidence, so by making them feel proud of their appearance relative to their other students, by removing this bullying, we think that students are more likely to feel confident about other aspects of their performance at school, and feel more comfortable at school, so that they'll actually do better academically.
We also think that this is uniquely good for students from low income backgrounds.
So we think that they'll learn more about professional dress if the uniform is along the lines of what professionals wear in society.
So we think that that could ultimately be good for young people who don't see a lot of adults dressed in, like, business casual clothing day to day so they don't fully understand how they're going to have to act if eventually they work in a very different environment than the one that they grow up in, but we also tell you that this is fundamentally a way for the government to provide students with good warm clothes.
You know if you have students living in philadelphia, or a lot of other american cities that are fairly cold, then we think that it's broadly speaking a good thing to provide them with uniform clothes that'll be of a certain quality, so that these students are provided with access to good warm clothes for the winter, and able to feel proud of themselves, and that if we provide them with lunch and other things we don't see why we ought not provide them with uniforms as well.
So, on the comparative, we think that because there's less bullying, we're going to be better off even if we reduce students' individuality a little bit, because we're removing some students, at the very least, as targets of bullying, even if we don't perfectly solve for that problem.
So our second argument is about why we think that we get better education.
So first question here, why do we educate young people in the first place?
We think that the reason why we do this in liberal countries is to produce better citizens, people who can work, and vote and participate more in society.
So we think that to do this we need to instill discipline in young people, and that uniforms are a great way to do this.
By telling them that you need to appear professional as you go to school, you're better preparing them to be professional in other aspects of their life, especially for older children who are maybe in high school and closer to going into the workforce.
We think that you also reduce distractions, because if people aren't comparing their clothes to other students, or talking about clothes and things like that as often, then we think that they're going to be more focused on schooling.
We think that young people are almost uniquely predisposed to focus on things like clothes, because they're more focused on appearances and haven't had as much time to learn to appreciate other things about people.
We also think that uniforms create cohesion which will let students work better together.
If students don't, you know, have very different clothes and if their socio-economic background isn't immediately obvious on seeing how they're dressed, that students will better be able to work together on group projects and to form communities within the school that are more diverse, so that you socialize people with those who are different from themselves.
So we think that ultimately we get better citizens by having uniforms, so we better fulfill the purpose of education, so we think that we win the debate there.
But as a brief point of rebuttal, on their side of the house, they talk about better social education.
But we think that, students with uniforms are not robots, they're still unique.
It's not like you strip away everything that makes someone an individual by telling them they have to wear a blue shirt and khaki pants and brown shoes.
So we just don't think that there are real harms to uniforms.
We think that students will still develop into fully unique adults and that they do so in britain and canada and other countries right now.
So we just don't think a lot of the harms from the last speaker are true.
For these reasons, we should require school uniforms.
Thank you