We should not adopt libertarianism.
We have actually many things that we could say, but we'll focus on two for the purposes of this speech.
The first is why libertarianism is undemocratic, and the second is about why the non-aggression principle is nonsense, and I'll explain what that is when we come to it.
So, first, why is libertarianism undemocratic?
Sam essentially tells you that under libertarianism, you drastically reduce the size of government and turn over control to private actors.
The reason why the government is a better actor, in many cases, than private actors is because there's democratic control over the government.
Everyone living in a country, from the homeless all the way up to bill gates, has some say over how the country is run.
And what services are available, what rights we offer people, what goods people are able to consume are all controlled to some extent by consent, and we think that's tremendously important, that even if this places some limits on people's right to property, the ability of people to now consent to the way that they are treated and the way that power is exercised is very important.
If you imagine access to the levers of power, that is to say, to decision-making and action, it is much easier for ordinary people to access the levers of power in a liberal democracy with a large government than in whatever you want to call a libertarian state with a very small government.
The reason why is that in a libertarian state, large companies like exxon and amazon can largely do as they will with no oversight from the american people.
Now it's true that these companies are governed democratically to the extent that shareholders get to vote, but that really just means that it's a democracy for the very wealthy who can afford to buy the shares and get onto boards.
Essentially, it's return to government by the super wealthy elite, like what you saw in britain before reforms in the nineteenth century, back when only rich landholders could vote in parliament.
So we think that this would just be a ridiculous rollback of everything that people have fought and died for since the french revolution in terms of representative government, in the name of nebulous property rights.
But our second argument is that the non-aggression principle is nonsense.
The non-aggression principle is what it says on the tin, the idea that you should never commit any act of aggression against someone's property or person and, obviously, libertarians include taxing people as an affront to their property.
This doesn't make any sense.
All right.
There is no distinction between action and inaction.
If I'm walking down the road and I see a man having a heart attack and I don't call the police, I am as responsible for his death as I would have been if I had pulled out a gun and shot him.
The man died because of my choice.
The fact that I chose to do nothing doesn't change anything.
So when you drastically roll back the government and people start dying of easily preventable illnesses, and there are no public schools, and people are starving, all of us will be responsible for that.
It is an act of aggression not to have a large and generous social safety net.
It is tantamount to warfare against people who cannot provide for themselves through no fault of their own, namely the poor.
We see, therefore, that the idea that taxation is aggression doesn't really make any sense, given that not having taxation is also an act of aggression.
What do we defer to then?
Well, it seems obvious to me and everyone else in society, apparently, that it is preferable to save people's lives rather than let billionaires keep a little bit more of their money.
Ultimately, the problem with libertarian ideology is that it's all just a facade to conceal the fact that it's about the very wealthy having more power in society and not having to share their wealth with the people who produce it.
There is no higher goal, like creating a better world.
It is purely powered by greed and the desire for corporations to rule over us all like feudal barons.
For all these reasons, we should not adopt libertarianism.
Thank you.