We should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
So, basically, what we're talking about are games like the famous doom, which the columbine shooters were playing before they shot up their school, or more modern games, like call of duty or halo, which feature graphic violence and often have the player , you know, killing other people or doing other violent acts.
We would be okay with the sale of games that have cartoonish violence, so something like mario, but we think that the super realistic type of violence is what we should be banning from the sale to minors.
So, three main arguments for why this is true.
First, these games cause children to internalize harmful norms.
If you grow up playing these games, where you are the hero and you execute lots of people or kill enemies, we think that you internalize the norm that violence is a way to solve your problems.
Now the other team is going to say that people don't actually learn anything from video games, but we think that young people are deeply influenced by the media that they consume, that this is why, generally speaking, we try to set up positive role models for young people in fiction.
Think of characters like dumbledore, say.
A useful way to think of this is through the lens of virtue ethics, that if a good person is someone who acts like a good person, then you need to give young people lots of examples of good people so that they can develop into them.
At the point where, in our society, using violence or guns to solve your problems is not acceptable, we think that we shouldn't encourage young people to play video games where this is the case.
But video games go beyond even other forms of media.
Because you are actively participating rather than passively consuming, I think it's much more likely that they change the way that you actively participate with other parts of your life.
If you spend hundreds of hours playing a game where you go around killing people, then you're probably much more likely to vote for a politician who wants to go kill people abroad, or to go out and buy a gun when you're older because you're more comfortable with the idea of owning and using a gun.
We think that all of these are antisocial outcomes of socializing young people with these types of video games and that these are all sufficient to ban their sale.
Our second argument is that we think that the sale of video games ought be consistent with other types of media.
Where I live, at the very least, people under the age of seventeen aren't allowed to go and see very violent or sexual movies.
Even if you're with your parents, there is a law that says that you can't go in and see certain films because they're just too graphic.
We think that it's ridiculous that movies, which you consume passively for about two hours, are heavily regulated whereas video games, which you might play for a hundred hours and which are very active, are not similarly regulated, particularly when oftentimes the content in these video games wouldn't even be allowed in a movie in my country.
At that point, we think that the law ought be principally consistent and apply the same standards to video games as to films, and ban the sale of these games to minors.
We already have rating systems that would facilitate this: you have r-rated movies and m-rated video games.
We think that this situation is pretty much analogous.
Our last point is that we think that this would disincentivize the creation of hyper-violent video games.
Ideally, we tell you you wouldn't want these extremely violent games to exist at all, because even adults consuming these things probably perverts their idea of what is normal or acceptable.
I mentioned earlier about people supporting violent politicians, but if you play a game where you go and kill people in an environment that's very similar to iraq, it seems much more likely to me that you would be willing to tolerate US marines going and doing exactly the same thing.
In particular, many of these games lionize groups, like the US military, so that people don't think critically about politicians and the military.
So, ultimately, we think that if you ban the sale of these games to children, they're less financially profitable and fewer of them are made, which means that you get fewer of these harmful outcomes.
Thank you.