We should not legalize prostitution.
While we acknowledge that the other side can set up a system similar to the model in the netherlands where prostitution is closely regulated.
Before I get into my two substantive points, I'd like to point out that prostitution is likely to be much more common in a world in which it is legal.
More people will feel comfortable going into the profession voluntarily because there will be less of a stigma and will have greater ability to do so, and presumably many more people will avail themselves of it if it's legal.
With that in mind, we have two main arguments for why it should not be legalized.
Our first argument is that the government is justified in banning prostitution.
Recognize that most of the people who would become prostitutes are likely very young and probably not from a very high social class.
People who have many opportunities in life are unlikely to choose to become prostitutes because, first of all, it's something that is not very prestigious in society and secondly, you actually can't make a great deal of money compared to other professions that require more education.
So we think that it's primarily going to be young people who don't see that they have very many options going into prostitution.
These are the people who are least able to assess the risks and benefits of becoming a prostitute.
Consider that these young people are probably the least informed about the risks of sexually transmitted diseases, about the potential dangers of taking on these clients and about navigating the business world that they're now entering.
We think that ultimately the people who are most likely to become prostitutes are also likely to be taken advantage of.
Even if government, such as the dutch government, is able to ban pimps, we still think it's likely that these young people will be taken advantage of.
But unlike an abusive manager at a mcdonald's, it's much more difficult for people to walk away from prostitution, because essentially they're selling themselves rather than their labor.
We think people will be more caught up in this and less able to leave if they do face abuse.
So we think that the state is able to intervene because these people lack information about entering the profession.
But there are also third-party harms to the legalization of prostitution.
One is that we think that other vices are likely to increase if prostitution is legalized.
We think that people who frequent brothels or otherwise are seeking out prostitutes are also likely to do things like drink to excess or consume drugs as well, because it's all part of the same package of behavior and decadent lifestyle.
But what's more, we also think that there are harms to the way that society views women and also sex.
We think that if you normalize prostitution, then the way people view sex will change as well, probably for the worse.
When you commodify sex, when you commodify women's bodies, in particular, we think it's likely that people will have less respect for women overall, and therefore that this is harmful to all women in your society.
But even if the state couldn't paternalize based on those reasons, which we think that it can, our second argument will still win the debate, and this is that ultimately prostitution coincides with an undesirable element entering your community.
We think that groups like organized crime are likely to take advantage of the legalization of prostitution.
Now the other team might say that organized crime won't move in once prostitution is legal because legitimate businesses will crop up instead.
But doesn't it make sense that the people who already have the most experience in running successful prostitution businesses will thrive if you legalize prostitution?
We think it's quite likely that organized crime will be able to use this as a front and that they'll be incentivized to move into communities that legalize prostitution.
So there's a first-mover disadvantage here: if one area legalizes prostitution before all the others, then these undesirable elements are likely to move in there.
And we think that in amsterdam you have seen an increase in things like human trafficking through organized crime in order to fill the demand for prostitutes, compared to a similarly sized cities elsewhere in europe.
So we think that because of these harms it's acceptable to ban prostitution.
Even if you don't like our paternalism arguments.
Thank you.