We should privatize water supply.
So, what we're advocating for in this debate is that private companies should provide access to drinking water and the water for agricultural use, anything like that, in place of municipal governments.
So, in much of the world right now municipal or local governments provide access to water for people from a municipal water supply, we're just saying we think that it should be run by private companies which would compete on an open market.
We're okay with having regulation in terms of quality, we're okay with requiring that companies sell at a reduced rate to the elderly or to families with children but we think that it should be provided privately.
So, two arguments: the first is that governments around the world are doing an insufficient job providing people with safe clean drinking water.
We see that while it's true that many countries in europe or the united states provide people with safe clean drinking water, this is certainly not the norm around the globe.
Even in countries which have access to running water in every single home, places which are relatively highly developed.
Pick a country like turkey: everyone house water in their home in turkey.
It's a very highly developed country.
But the water is often not safe for people to drink, which means that local people have to go out and purchase drinking water or get filtration systems, or go through a long arduous process of the boiling and processing water in their home.
We think that this is proof that governments, even in relatively wealthy countries, are not able to satisfactorily provide people with access to clean safe drinking water.
Why do we think that private companies would do a better job?
In some countries around the world, such as bolivia, private companies have begun to supplant local governments as the providers of clean drinking water.
Now, bolivia is a much poorer country than turkey, to use the other example, but everyone there, effectively living in areas served by private water companies, has access to water that they can drink out of the tap.
The same that you would see in a country like canada or germany.
What we see is that because private companies have an incentive to compete against one another and to provide the best possible product, that ultimately they will provide higher quality of water them municipal governments.
We see that even in the US you have problems like governments failing to replace old pipes.
We think that local corporations would have much more of an incentive to maintain the infrastructure surrounding public water, because they need to have good infrastructure in order to sell their product and make money.
So we see that governments are failing to provide people with clean safe drinking water and that private companies would have a better incentive to actually do this.
For that reason we should privatize the water supply.
But our second argument is that this would lower cost overall.
Why is this true?
Municipal water companies, virtually everywhere in the world, have monopolies over the provision of water, which means that they have very little incentive to try to improve in order to lower costs.
It might be the case that investing a little bit of money up front would lead to lower costs in the long term for consumers, but municipal companies have no incentive to do so.
They keep using the infrastructure that was paid for whenever their municipal water company was set up, and they have no incentive to try to improve, to try to be more efficient.
They have no incentive to layoff unproductive employees or to experiment with new methods of providing water more cheaply because they get paid the same amount no matter what.
They also have no incentive to actually be sure that cost will remain affordable in the future, through things like maintenance, because they know that the taxpayer will pick up the cost of maintaining these facilities.
Private companies on the other hand want to experiment with new ways to deliver their product more cheaply because the money goes to them.
They want to layoff ineffective employees, they want to think about the long term to secure their own revenue in the future.
So we see that market incentives will actually lead to more efficiency and a better quality product being delivered to people at a lower cost.
So for these two reasons we should privatize the water supply.
Thank you.