We should not legalize prostitution.
So, basically, what we're going to argue is that prostitution should not be made legal for people to use.
We're okay with decriminalizing it for the prostitutes, for instance, in new york city, I know that if you are a prostitute, you will not be punished for that, but people who use your services will be.
So we're okay with that kind of model, but we think that ultimately it should remain criminal to solicit a prostitute.
So three arguments for our side.
The first argument is about why we think it's necessary for the government to get involved in this particular line of work.
First of all, we tell you that there's a huge information gap between young women who might want to become prostitutes or young men who might want to become prostitutes and to the people who would try to encourage them to do so.
We think it's very likely that the danger and potential risks of this occupation are going to be undersold.
In particular, it seems like it would be difficult for young people with limited worldly experience to conceptualize about the emotional harms that being a prostitute might have, and also the physical danger that they might have when they're alone with a john or jane, I suppose, it is twenty seventeen.
We think that because this is so likely to be dangerous and because this is an industry that really recruits lots of very young people for a short period of time at which they're at their sexual peak, and then kind of throws them away, that ultimately people won't be able to accurately make a decision about whether or not this is good for them.
At that point, we think that it's clear that the state should get involved on their behalf, as it does in other instances.
We'd also like to point out that there are clear harms to third parties as well by legalizing prostitution.
For instance, most people probably don't want to live in a neighborhood with lots of prostitutes because it's going to drive down property values and bring in lots of secondary unsafe reactivity.
So ultimately, we think that it's unfair to the people in the community that surround this to have prostitution be legalized and that in order to protect those people's interests, prostitution ought remain illegal.
Our second point is that we think that this is likely to encourage further human trafficking.
Why is this true?
So there's a huge demand for prostitutes relative to the amount of people who want to go into prostitution.
Even in countries like the netherlands, that the other side might hold up as examples of successful legalization of prostitution, there are problems with people being brought in from southeast asia or eastern europe and forced to work either as basically indentured servants or even as slaves in brothels or prostitution rings.
So we tell you that because they're such a huge demand, this will create necessarily a huge incentive to supply people to fill that demand.
When there's so much money to be made, we think that organized crime groups will have a much greater incentive to traffic young men and women in order to fill the demand for prostitutes.
At that point, we think it is better to crack down on the industry and reduce the incentive for them to traffic these people to become prostitutes in the first place.
Our final argument is that we think prostitution is fundamentally different from being a construction worker or a ballerina.
So, rachel tells you that there's no difference between using your body for sex and using your body for physical labor or art, but we think that there are a few differences.
First of all, we tell you that whereas someone can build a career out of being a construction worker and have very accurate information about what that's going to be like, it's probably much more difficult, as I said before, for them to do so with prostitution.
Moreover, we think that the nature of prostitution being a kind of unsavory business means that it'll be difficult for people to find good work afterwards.
If someone is a ballerina, to take rachel's example, until they're thirty and then they're no longer able to continue that line of work.
We don't think anyone's going to hold that against them that they were a dancer for a few years, but if someone's a prostitute we think it's likely that they'll be looked down on by society, and have a more difficult time getting into other forms of employment afterwards.
And we see that this is already a problem for strippers, so it would probably be much exacerbated for prostitutes because that's even more taboo.
So for all of these reasons, we should not legalize prostitution.
Thank you.