A global language does is not advantageous.
So basically, we have two main points in this debate: the first is about the death of culture and I think that this will directly deal with some of the claims made by the other team.
So, our first claim under this is that language and culture are inseparable and we see that this is true in many places around the world.
It is difficult to imagine judaism practiced if hebrew were to become a dead language for instance.
We think that there's a reason that hebrew has been spoken for thousands of years, and that's because it's essential to jewish cultural practice, and we see something similar for muslims and arabic and for catholics and latin, or language is a been kept alive because of their cultural utility.
But what we tell you is that when a language is supplanted and replaced by another language, culture must necessarily be supplanted and replaced, at least in part, as well.
And if you want a really good example of this let's look at france.
So, in the early nineteenth century in france people spoke many different, not mutually intelligible languages, particularly between the north and south of the country.
Not everybody spoke what we now think of as france, that was limited to some parts of what is now northern france.
But the government at that time saw fit to replace all of the minority languages with french, by forcing people to speak them.
We see something similar taking place elsewhere in the world, where economic factors lead people to adopt english and focus on that rather than their native language.
But the end effect in france was that many of these minority languages died out and local cultures were lost, as the parisian culture and the parisian language were imposed on the rest of the country and people came to see that language and culture as more prestigious than their own and abandoned their traditional language and custom.
We think that french is france is culturally impoverished relative to what it could be today if this diversity had been maintained.
We think, because of this, that you are losing something irreplaceable when you lose your derious language.
We think that you lose cultural values that can never be brought back because once a language and a culture die out, people might be able to study it in books but it'll never come back with the same vibrancy that it once had.
Now the other team might point to hebrew again but it certainly never died out even if it was used widely as a spoken language in the early modern period.
So we tell you that you should never give up what cannot be brought back.
We tell you that in the same way that we preserve species, because we have no way to bring them back from extinction, we ought preserve languages as well.
And it is necessarily true that if people see a massive benefit to speaking one particular language, that they will give up on their mother tongue.
Now, the other team might say that this is already the case, to some extent, with english in many places like india for instance, but we say that even if this is true in the status quo, it's not something desirable or advantageous.
We think that it is entirely possible to have people do business without one globally dominant language as english has become, they did it for hundreds of years.
We don't see why this hegemonic language is the only way for people to do business successfully.
Which leads nicely into my second argument about why one world language, english, will entrench the hegemony of english speaking countries like the states and britain.
So we tell you that this increases the relative power and prestige of the US and britain because countries around the world are consuming the cultural goods to learn english, and then once they know english, consuming things like hollywood movies and music from england in much higher rates than they would otherwise.
We think that this normalizes the idea that these cultures are desirable, particularly relative to domestic culture that might be seen as backwards because it's linked with the old language.
We think therefore that this normalizes cultural dependence on the US and britain but also educational dependence.
People want to learn english from people from anglophone countries, so they bring in teachers from australia, britain, the states, and ultimately you create a culture that is dependent on education from these areas and from these people, which means that people are normalized to certain ideas and lose out on traditional ideas and that you rely on people from these countries to educate your youth.
We think that ultimately this creates a hierarchical system, where these people are given a privileged position in society and that you can see this around the world where countries bring in americans and english people as english teachers and then treat them very well and it's seen as normal for them to come in and the for the good lives as expats for a few years and then leave.
A lot of americans to this after college for instance.
At the end of the day we think that this entrenches a harmful hierarchical norm, where the US and britain are seen as culturally dominant around the world and we think that for this reason also a global language is not advantageous.
Thank you.