Zoos bring more harm than good.
So, by zoos we just mean zoological parks that exist primarily in order for the public to come and see the animals that live there, rather than for any other purpose.
And by do more harm than good we think that although there are obviously good points to be made on both sides, on balance zoos cause more harm and suffering than they do goodness.
So, three arguments.
The first is that the suffering that zoos cause for animals outweighs the educational benefits that they have for the public.
Recognize that zoos, even the very best zoos, still promote poor mental health for the animals that live there.
It's a common sight, for instance, to see zoo animals pace back and forth in the same pattern all day, until they wear down tracks on the floor.
I saw this myself with an elephant in the singapore zoo which was living in a fairly sizeable enclosure, but obviously much smaller than the natural environment of an elephant in northern india, that would have hundreds of acres to roam across.
We think that particularly for the kind of charismatic large animals that people most want to see, lions, elephants, bison, ultimately it's going to be impossible for zoos to provide them with enclosures large enough to meet their needs.
What this means is that a zoo prioritizes entertainment and education for visitors over the mental health and well being of the animals that ultimately live there.
We think that every individual has a very marginal benefit from going to a zoo.
You might see some interesting animals for a few hours and learn a little bit more about buffalo or something, but at the end of the day these animals live there, you go home, go back to your bed and your house and have everything nice and normal, but the animal is permanently in this state.
So we think that ultimately, because of the long term harms to the animals, especially with regards to their mental health, that the benefits are outweighed by the harms.
Our second argument is about the misuse of funds.
Remember that money is fungible.
Any money that's spent on something like a zoo that provides facilities for tourists, gift shops, restaurants, all of these things, could be put towards actual conservation.
We're not going to deny on our side of the house that zoos do good work.
The american buffalo, for instance, would probably have gone extinct if it weren't for the intervention of zoos, and now they bounce back and are doing really well out on the great planes.
So we see that zoos do valuable work, but we would prefer to have zoological parks that focus only on conservation and that don't spend money on provision for tourists.
We think that at the end of the day, it's a gross misuse of funds for conservation to spend money on entertaining people.
Ultimately, we would prefer to have people watch animal planet or the nature channel or documentaries and things like that, rather than have them go and see these animals directly, if it means that we have more funds to spend on what really matters, which is conservation.
Our final argument is about the perverse incentives that zoos create.
So recognize that when you have a zoo, necessarily you need animals to put on display.
Now, many of these animals might have been born in captivity and are unable to support themselves in the wild.
This is true for many elephants in zoos in north america or europe, that they were born in captivity and just wouldn't know how to take care of themselves if you took them to india or africa.
But we see that zoos also create a huge market for captured animals, that in order to gain access to animals that don't breed in captivity for instance, there's an incentive for poachers or other groups to capture animals to sell to zoos.
And that oftentimes, especially in the developing world, zoos might not ask too many questions about where a valuable animal came from.
But we also think that zoos encourage mistreatment of animals.
People see the way that animals are treated in zoos and think that that's the normal way to treat them day to day, which might mean things like keeping them in small cages or forcing them to perform for entertainment, which obviously is going to be harmful for people's pets or other animals that they engage with in their day to day lives.
Or at the very least, it leaves people taking away an incorrect idea about what animals are really like, since they see them in this vulnerable mentally ill state, rather than in their natural grandeur.
So, ultimately, for these three reasons, zoos bring more harm than good.
Thank you.