International recognition of abkhazia and south ossetia is not justified.
We have two main arguments for our side today, but before I get into that, I just want to briefly address something that the other team said.
The other team said that, this would be justified because of the increased democratic authority, that people living in south ossetia or abkhazia would now have over their own lives.
Here's why we don't think that's a relevant standard: one, there are legitimate states which aren't democratic, we don't think that the people's republic of china is illegitimate as a state, just because it's not democratic, and on top of that, we don't actually see that this is true.
We think that it's very likely that, these governments will not be fully democratic.
If you look at you know the greater caucasus region, very few of these countries are actually fully fledged liberal democracies, so we don't think that you're going to see that kind of democracy.
But with that in mind, two arguments: first is that these are illegal separatists, so we don't think that this is going to be justified, if we recognize them.
Realize that these people in abkhazia, in south ossetia, who are fighting against their legitimate governments, are violating the social contract.
Everyone who lives in these caucuses countries, like georgia, has opted in to a certain social contract that includes a monopoly of violence: the people living in georgia would be much safer, better able to fulfill their own goals, better able to protect their own property, etcetera, if only the government had access to violence, as a means to get what they want, but these people living in abkhazia, in south ossetia, have put their own interest ahead of the greater community of georgia, in order to say, that it's more important that they have independence, than that, anybody else has access to this ability to protect their own freedoms, through the monopoly of violence of the state.
They're violating the social contract, and we don't think that that deserves to be celebrated or rewarded.
But on top of that, we tell you that this is a huge violation of georgian sovereignty.
Although the creation of georgia as a country, in the early nineties, was somewhat legally fraud, we do see that it's been recognized by the international community, including the countries that might have a claim on it, like russia.
So, we see that georgia does have sovereignty, and we realize that, when a region is breaking off unilaterally, with no agreement from this local government, that they were violating that sovereignty.
We think that, if other countries intervene and recognize abkhazia and south ossetia, that they are also undermining georgian sovereignty, and the entire network of call them westphalian states, because they go back to this treaty in germany, in the early modern period.
This entire system of sovereign countries only functions, because every country agrees to recognize every other country's sovereignty, right?
Sovereignty is not something handed down from heaven, it's something that we have to all agree to in order for it to function.
So, we think it would not be just to recognize these countries, because it would undermine the notion of sovereignty.
Our second argument, about why this cannot be just, is that it's arbitrary.
Recognize that, there are many other attempted breakaway states, particularly in former soviet countries, that aren't getting recognized as a result of this motion.
Transnistria is a good example of one, that it' is a small break away area in eastern europe, that isn't widely recognized by most of the international community.
It's a big sticking point between russia and the EU right now, whether it should be recognized.
But we think that, at the point where you can't just legitimize every single breakaway state, because if you do so, you don't just get the ones that, maybe we living in western liberal countries would want, like south ossetia, like abkhazia, you also have to accept ones like transnistria, or you know maybe even within the EU countries, you have to let catalonia, and galicia, and the basque counties leave spain.
Ultimately, this would just set up a huge situation, where you would have to recognize every breakaway state, in order not to be arbitrary.
We tell you arbitrariness can never be just, because it's not universalizable.
Justice needs to apply the same to everyone, it ought not be something that is just ad hoc, because at that point you're just doing whatever is best for you in any given situation, and we don't think that that's a reasonable standard for justice.
So because ultimately, we see that these are illegal separatists, and because we think that this would be arbitrary, international recognition of abkhazia and south ossetia is not justified, thank you.