Truth and reconciliation commissions bring more good than harm.
So truth and reconciliation commissions or TRCs if you prefer, are effectively panels that are set up in post conflict societies, so think south africa in the early nineties after the end of apartheid where they were used for the effectively, which are set up so that people can come forward and admit to crimes that they committed during a period of civil war or under an oppressive regime and then if you come forward and reveal what you did under the old regime to the TRC you will not be punished in a criminal court later on.
So effectively you confess what you did.
You might be ordered to make an apology but you will not be criminally prosecuted as a result of coming forward to these TRCs.
So two arguments for why we think that the good that they do outweighs the harm that they do.
The first is about catharsis.
Recognize that after a civil conflict in particular you're going to have lots of people who are missing, who don't know where their loved ones are, who don't know what happened to people living in their town or village, and that these people have no way to find out the truth, no way to learn what happened, no way to bury their dead even without knowing from the old regime or from the other side of the civil war exactly what happened.
People can uniquely get access to this information because of truth and reconciliation commissions.
Recognize that everyone has an incentive to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth to these TRCs because it's the only way that they can avoid prosecution later on.
This means that many people will come forward and confess to crimes that they committed and it's much more likely that people will learn where their loved ones were buried or what happened to their son things like that.
We think that this catharsis is the most that people can ask for after a conflict.
You can't undo the harms of war.
You can't bring back the dead.
You can't rebuild the things that were destroyed.
All you can do is help people to heal as they move forward and we think that the catharsis that these TRCs facilitate it's going to be a really powerful tool for people to move forward.
Our second argument is about buy-in.
So basically what we mean by this is that in order for the new state to succeed after the civil war or after the insurrection, whatever it maybe, you need people from both sides of the conflict to think that the new state is legitimate.
So if you think about columbia, people from the farc side of the civil war and people from the government side of the civil war now both have to come together and agree that the government is legitimate.
So how do you do that?
First of all, you need to avoid the perception of victor's justice.
You need to make it clear that you're treating people from both sides fairly so that everyone knows that the government isn't going to continue persecuting people from the losing side of the conflict because if that's true, there's no reason for anyone to ever lay down their arms and surrender at the end of the conflict.
They'll just fight on to the death as you see with some members of farc.
So TRCs bring more good than harm because they better facilitate peace, because people have more faith in the idea that they will get justice as a result.
But on top of that they increase buy-in because people will have more faith in civil institutions.
If you're a country coming out of civil war than people are used to solving their problems through violence rather than through the state.
They're used too summary executions and things like that and you need to end those practices in order to have a successful state after the civil conflict.
So what we do on our side is create the idea that people can solve their problems through civil institutions.
These TRCs are a low stakes way to get people invested in institutions of state, which means that in the future they are more likely to rely upon those institutions.
In the long run what separates successful countries from unsuccessful ones is the ability for the government to resolve people's problems without recourse to violence and ultimately be get that better on our side and that good is going to do more in the long term that any harm of not having persecutions would right now.
So for these two reasons TRCs bring more good than harm.
Thank you.