Feminism brings more good than harm.
So just a brief definition.
We're gonna say that feminism is the movement for equality for women.
So obviously this looks different at different places at different times but that's what we're talking about in this debate.
Three arguments first, feminism fights against millennia of oppression.
We see that although today there's a widely accepted norm that men and women should be equal, feminism is still important because all of the baggage from thousands of years women being treated as a lesser than men, as property for men, doesn't just go away because suddenly today people say that there's equality.
Harmful stereotypes, inferior access to medical care, limitations in terms of child rearing responsibilities, all of these things have gone on for millennia and they're still a problem today although we have the notion of equality under the law now.
So we think that the feminist movement because it challenges these ideas and also because it points out underlying assumptions that people don't even realize that they have it challenges people's implicit biases that for this reason, it does more good than harm.
Feminism will always be important even now that women have the right to vote and things like that because it's very important that we challenge the biases that people don't even recognize that they have these implicit biases that ultimately make them treat women as inferior to men.
Our second argument is that feminism limits violence.
So the the history of the relationship between women and men is fundamentally one defined by violence.
If you look at, for instance, the history of the institution of marriage for thousands of years marriage was seen as a transition a property from a father to husband if you look at I study roman law and under roman law a woman is literally the property of her father until she becomes the property of her husband and if the husband dies then she becomes the property of her father again.
She's treated very much like a slave under the law.
So there's a huge amount of violence to the system because no one asks women whether they want to get married off, whether they want to be transferred as property.
They're forced to go and marry someone and then whether or not they're actually consenting into it their husband takes advantage of them in many ways and ultimately this violence has been invisible throughout history until the beginning of the feminist movement, because it was a problem that didn't have a name, that nobody was willing to talk about.
The fact that over half the population was suffering from systemic violence that greatly limited personal freedom and had tremendous dramatic effects on those women.
This is a problem that needs to be addressed and engaged with by every new generation in order to prevent sexual violence, in order to reduce violence against women in society and ultimately the feminist movement because it has the ability to do that has reduced global violence probably more than any other movement in history.
I think it's clear therefore that it does more good than harm.
We're not sure what these harms would even be.
Our third point is about unlocking women's potential because for thousands of years I'm sure that you had women who were geniuses or very gifted at a particular sport or other avenue of excellence that were just ignored because they were just seen as a vehicle for having children and doing housework.
Ultimately you wouldn't have things like female scientists, you wouldn't have female writers, you wouldn't have female athletes, if it weren't for the feminist movement.
Someone like marie curie in the twentieth century never could have come to prominence and done the research that she did without the beginnings of the feminist movement in the nineteenth century and today when you see that there are millions of female scientist obviously this is driving human progress that we're looking at the best people, the smartest most competent people now rather than arbitrarily excluding someone from the work force just because of their sex.
So at the end of the day we think that feminism has increased economic potential of a country, which is obviously good for everyone including men, but also that it allows individual women more freedom to control their destinies because their potential is unblocked through education and training and respect.
So I think it's very clear that at an individual level feminism brings more good than harm.
Thank you.