We should not abolish anti-social behavior orders, also known as restraining orders in the united states.
We have a few reasons why we think they should be kept around broadly but first, I'd just like to push back on the idea from danny that these are criminal punishment for civil suits.
Ultimately, these are still assigned by a judge or a jury so we don't think they're completely unreasonable and moreover, the gradation of the punishment fits the crime and, ultimately, even if this is a severe punishment, it's usually worthwhile, for the reasons I'll explain in a moment.
So our first argument is that these anti-social behavior orders are necessary to fight harassment.
Recognize that before the mid-twentieth century when these policies started to be implemented, there just was no legal way to fight against harassment.
Women got sexually harassed all the time in the workplace, people were treated very poorly by their boss or by people in society.
If someone abused you, you had very little recourse in general.
So, in the course of the twentieth century, it was seen that this was an unacceptable way for the world to be, and we introduced restraining orders or anti-social behavior orders in order to prevent this and in order to discourage people from committing crimes, or abuse, or harassment.
There's no other tool that exists to let people punish someone who's been harassing them or who's been abusing them or their property.
Oftentimes, there's no way for people to bring a criminal suit because no crime has been committed, even though something is very detrimental to their life.
Remember that in a common law state like britain, canada or the US, only the state can bring a criminal suit, so oftentimes you don't have any say in whether this person gets punished unless you have some civil avenue to do so, and that probably looks a lot like these anti-social behavior orders.
So, on our side, we uniquely can fight against things like harassment in the workplace.
But our second argument is that it's time that we believed victims.
Yes, someone somewhere is probably falsely reporting some incident in order to get an anti-social behavior order in order to hurt their enemy or someone that they don't like, but the vast preponderance of these are filed by people who really need the state's protection.
Many of the people filing for restraining orders in the US, for instance, are women who have been sexually harassed or abused by a previous boyfriend or girlfriend.
So, ultimately, we think it's time that we believe these people that something is wrong and try to do something to help them rather than just say, " oh, well, you should just avoid this person. "
It's ridiculous to put the burden to avoid someone on someone who's been a victim and moreover, for some of these behavior orders that affect property, it might literally be impossible to keep someone out of your property if you don't have this legal protection.
So, ultimately, we need to focus on what's good for victims and not worry as much about what's good for abusers, because those people have had it too good for too long.
And our last point is about the alternatives to having these anti-social behavior orders.
What happened a hundred and fifty years ago if someone consistently damaged your property?
Well, if you didn't have access to the law, you probably got a group of people together and did something about it yourself, right?
The american west is famous for having posses that would get together and go after someone who did them wrong.
Ultimately, we think that one reason why vigilante violence is almost unheard of now in much of the developed world is because people have so much access to recourse through the courts.
If you take away people's ability to protect themselves and their property through the courts, they're not just going to roll over and die.
They're going to find some other way to protect what's what's theirs.
We think that it's much more likely that people are going to do things like retaliate using property damage or even violence against another person or that they're going to spread rumors through their community and use community censure to get the same effect in a way that's much more damaging to the person who's accused.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abolish anti-social behavior orders.
Thank you.