We should ban the growing of coca leaf.
On our side, we're arguing that countries like peru and colombia should not allow their citizens to grow coca leaves.
Rachel gives you a very strange conception of the world in her speech that I'm going to try to push back on in two large areas: one, about why it's acceptable to ban this and two, about what the outcome would be of legalization.
But before I get into that, I'd just like to push back on a basic factual claim.
Rachel seems to think that you cannot ban the coca leaf because it's merely a component of cocaine.
But LSA, which is a component of LSD, is certainly illegal in every country in the world.
Similarly, many of the products that are needed to produce meth actually are illegal.
For instance, you can only have a very limited amount of sudafed because it's a precursor to meth and anytime you go buy some when you have a cold, they make you show your driver's license and sign a little registry promising not to become walter white.
But anyway, moving into our points, the first thing I'd like to talk about is the standard for government intervention.
We propose what we think is a much more reasonable standard than what we heard from the last speaker.
We say that if there is a third-party harm, a lack of access to information, or a compelling state interest, that you can ban something.
So let's look at third-party harms.
Obviously when you grow something that really only exist to be used to create cocaine, there are massive third-party harms.
Now I know the other side's going to talk about all of these native people in peru who like to chew coca leaves, but this round isn't really about them.
Millions of tons of coca leaves are grown every year for the drug trade, not so that a bunch of grandmothers in peru can enjoy some traditional herbal snack.
At the end of the day, this is a debate about whether it should be okay to produce the raw materials needed for cocaine.
When you produce cocaine, you introduce huge amounts of violence to your community because inasmuch as cocaine is illegal and cartels traffic it, the cartels are going to want to keep a monopoly on the product in a certain area, which means they will kill people who threaten that monopoly.
So we think you bring in an inordinate amount of violence, and there's a third-party harm to that.
But moreover, everyone who uses your product also suffers from a third-party harm.
When you as an individual choose to produce a product that hurts other people, you are partially responsible for that.
People who make poisons, people who make drugs, are partially responsible for those who die as a result of their action because if they had not done so, those people wouldn't have been able to consume that substance in the first place and wouldn't have been negatively affected.
So everyone who dies because of crack cocaine this year in the united states, these peruvians and colombians who grow the plant, of their own free will, are partially responsible.
But next: asymmetry of information.
Inasmuch as many people might grow this thinking it's a normal cash crop and then be pulled into crime and the underworld, we think that it's very difficult for people to really consent to growing coca, because they don't fully understand the implications in most cases.
Therefore, we think it's fine for the government to intervene.
And lastly, compelling state interest.
Cartels undermine nation-states.
Colombia does not control huge amounts of its territory because of the cartels.
So, ultimately, we do think there's a compelling interest to heart harm the cartels by banning the production of coca leaves.
Which leads into our second major argument which is that this would be a boon for the cartels.
If you legalize the consumption production of coca leaves, then ultimately the cartels will be able to move their product much more easily.
One of their biggest expenses right now is moving coca around the countries to places where they can produce cocaine and then moving that cocaine out of the country.
You make it much easier to move those coca leaves around and even bring them to mexico for processing rather than doing it in colombia, if need be, and therefore make their business much easier to conduct.
So for all of these reasons, we should absolutely still ban the coca leaf.
Thank you.