We should not ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that we think that the standards which are used to determine which video games are and are not rated at a certain level are fundamentally arbitrary.
As an example of this, although this motion is about violence, I'd like to point out that rating systems often punish sexual content much more harshly than physical content.
Many games that are rated as appropriate for teens in the united states in which you can cut off people's heads with an axe but if there's a nipple then automatically the game will have the highest rating.
So we think that ultimately it's arbitrary what is and is not allowed into these games.
So if the other side's argument is that we need to give parents control by telling them what the content is, we don't think that they succeed by just labeling the games with teen or adult content, because ultimately what earns the game such a label is completely arbitrary.
We don't think that there's any non-arbitrary way to do this either, because you might go through and say well if someone dies in the game than it should have this rating and if the player kills someone versus the computer than it should be that rating.
But ultimately because every game is different, we think that short of having very detailed description in place of a rating, you'll never have a satisfactory ranking system.
We'd also like to point out that culturally what people think is and is not acceptable is completely different.
So, the last speaker used the example that some games present people from russia or other countries in a negative light and parents may not like that, but a rating system doesn't tell parents that this game contains russiphobia or islamophobia, only that the game contains language or tobacco use.
So we think that ultimately it doesn't solve for that problem either.
So effectively, you're just ranking games based on what some committee thinks regardless of what their content actually is.
This leads nicely into our second argument, which is that this encourages worse forms of parenting.
If parents use these ranking systems, use the idea that children can't go out and buy violent games as a crutch, then they're less likely to actually take an interest in the media that their children are consuming.
If you are someone who takes an active role in your children's media consumption, then you probably know how violent the media which they consume is, and if it contains objectionable content and if you're someone that doesn't pay any attention, then we don't think it really matters if the state intervenes to make it slightly harder for fifteen year olds to buy a violent game.
After all, we think it's trivially easy for them to get you know their siblings older brother or someone to go in and buy the game for them or a neighbor.
Ultimately people will find a way to get access to these games.
But when parents have the illusion that the government has solved the problem they're less likely to get to the root cause which is that their children have unsupervised time with this media.
Our third and final argument is that we think this is unfair to the companies which make video games.
Because you're taking this arbitrary standard and applying it to some games which passed some bright line for violence, we think those companies are being punished by losing out on a fairly lucrative market, namely teenage boys, probably the largest consumers of video games.
So basically studios which have done nothing illegal, which haven't created any content which is societally unacceptable, only content which is considered violent, are now unable to sell their product to their target audience.
We think that while it's true that some parents might go and buy their children these games anyway that the perception is likely to be oh that game is not suitable for children even if in fact the same game would have been fine with those parents before this rating and before those laws were put into place.
So ultimately we think that this unfairly punishes the developers of certain games.
For all these reasons, we should not ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
Thank you.