A flat tax will bring more good than harm.
So I want to be very clear.
What we're talking about in this debate is what will ultimately be the best for the state, not for any given individual.
We think that ultimately when you talk about a tax policy, you have to think about the effect that it has on millions of people, not on any one person.
With that in mind, we're going to argue that the flat tax will be good on aggregate for everyone living in a liberal democracy, although obviously it's going to harm some individuals disproportionately.
Two big arguments, but before we get into that, a little bit of background.
We're going to say that this flat tax will only take effect over a certain level of income.
So say, your money up to under two hundred percent of the poverty line will not be taxed.
We're going to say that revenue it will be revenue neutral compared to the progressive income tax so in a country like the US where most people are paying twenty five to thirty percent income tax right now, you'll bring in the same amount of money with the flat tax.
That's a level that will set it at and we're also going to say that we're going to get rid of almost all tax credits, and that includes for corporations and capital gains tax.
So investors and corporations are also going to pay a flat tax, although at a different rate from personal income tax, and they're also going to lose out on income tax credits as well.
Two arguments for you then.
One is that we think this would shift the tax burden onto corporations and investors and off of the shoulders of individuals.
Why is this true?
First of all, if you simplify the tax code as we prefer propose to do who does that actually harm?
Right now the people who benefit from the complex tax code are corporations and investors who use loopholes to avoid paying any tax at all.
Companies like boeing declare bogus losses eventhough they're bringing in billions of dollars, investors are able to claim that they take a loss every third year to avoid paying any tax, things like that.
We're going to get rid of all of these loopholes, which means that the government's receipts are going to go way way up from corporations and investors, namely the wealthiest segments of society, those who actually have capital and wealth.
Whereas lower income people are going to be able to pay and relatively less first of all because of less of their money will be taxed.
All the money up to two hundred percent of the poverty line would go untaxed under our policy which would actually help those poorest.
They would pay less than they do in the status quo, but on top of that, we tell you that even middle income people would see that a larger burden of the state's financing would fall on the wealthy rather than on themselves.
So we think that not only would this be principally fair, but it would also shift the tax burden on to those who should bear a higher portion of the state's cost because they benefit from it disproportionately, namely the wealthy.
Our second argument is that we think that this would require much less bureaucracy and overhead.
Right now, for most countries, they have thousands of people working in bureaucracy in order to deal with complex tax codes.
The internal revenue service in the united states or IRS employs thousands of people, they have a huge building in washington DC, and it takes them basically all year to deal with the previous year's taxes.
If you have a flat tax then we think it's much easier to determine if people are actually paying what they should.
Of course we'll still have to do audits, but in general you'll be able to see that if someone pays x amount of money, you'll be able to compare it very quickly to a chart and know if they paid correctly, as opposed to right now where you have to go and look at every single exemption and credit that they qualify for.
What's more, you wouldn't have to oversee these income tax returns.
Right now people in countries like the US pay in too much and then they get a check back a few months later.
With the flat tax that wouldn't be necessary because individuals could actually calculate the correct amount that they need to pay.
So with these arguments in mind, because ultimately the flat tax would shift the tax burden, and because you would have so much less overhead that it would be more efficient, a flat tax will bring more good than harm.
Thank you.