We should not abolish antisocial behavior orders.
So, these antisocial behavior orders were part of the british legal system in which judges could order someone to stop doing something that they had done in the past which, while technically legal, had some harmful effect on the community.
For instance, if someone had had too much to drink and engaged in public urination in a place where that weren't a criminal offense, a judge might order that person not to go out drinking at the same bar anymore because of what they had done in the past.
So with that in mind, three reasons why we shouldn't abolish these antisocial behavior orders.
The first is that these protect communities.
Realize that the people who these orders are being levied against probably aren't first-time offenders or upstanding citizens, it's people who have been engaging in patterns of poor behavior which have drawn negative attention to them from the community.
So I think that a group of people that you might see this commonly levied against are what the british call " hooligans ", which is to say young people who are engaging in certain harmful behaviors for society, who are, generally speaking, out of control and putting other people's property and feelings of safety at risk.
So these antisocial behavior orders allow the court a degree of freedom in how they deal with people's behavior.
Rather than slap young people with criminal offenses which will go on to haunt them for the rest of your lives, they can instead choose to do something like prevent them from going to a place where they've misbehaved in the past or otherwise provide consequences which, while weighty and while limiting that person, are not as serious as a criminal offense.
So this allows a judge to protect a community from someone's poor behavior while not, at the same time, ruining that person's life.
And I think that it's important that the court have this flexibility when you're dealing with problems like a youth culture that disrespects property, because ultimately those people will probably grow out of this phase and shouldn't have their whole lives ruined because of a few years of poor decisions.
So, our second argument is that this will change these groups of people's behaviors overall.
If suddenly there is a middle ground between no sort of engagement with the law and criminal or civil offenses that carry very broad and far-reaching penalties, we think that people will change their behaviors, because now they have to avoid these antisocial behavior orders.
So groups of people who might have engaged in things like petty theft or violence at soccer matches and things like that will now be much more likely to consider the harms that their actions can have for themselves.
In other words, you can force people to internalize the cost of the damage that they do to others by using these orders.
So, we think that ultimately this will reduce the prevalence of these antisocial behaviors in society by introducing clear consequences for them.
And the last point I'd like to make, contrary to what we just heard from yuval, is that there is no right for people to engage in these antisocial behaviors.
While many countries around the world may give people things like the right to freedom of expression, as far as I know, none of them give you the right to heckle an old person or generally make people feel unsafe.
There are limits to the rights that people are granted when they infringe upon the rights of others.
And while I'll grant that many of these antisocial behaviors exist in a gray area, that's why these antisocial behavior orders are such an excellent solution to them, because they allow us to respond to an undesirable behavior without having to rely on the full force of the criminal justice system.
So, ultimately, these are a useful tool in the legal toolbox which allow a flexible and humane response to certain behaviors by young people.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish antisocial behavior orders.
Thank you.