We should not ban spanking.
So a couple of things before I get into our positive material in this debate.
We want to challenge the idea on face that this necessarily has to take the form of abuse.
We think that there is a clear line between very limited use of force that's clearly tied to a particular misdeed or bad action and systematic abuse of a child.
We think that it's relatively easy for society to draw this distinction and that it's one that exists right now in countries like the US.
The idea that you can have very limited use of force in a positive way which is completely different then abuse.
And I'd also like to point out that people have grown up with this for thousands of years.
So we see that the psychological harms that will tells you about don't necessarily develop.
The fact that maybe I was spanked for stealing a piece of candy as a child didn't ultimately make me psychologically ill later on in life, it taught me what the difference was between right and wrong in that instance.
So we think that this can be used effectively and that many people, although their experiences are anecdotal, have experienced this in their own lives.
So with that in mind, our first point is that why we think this limits the options of parents.
Two things: one, we think parents have a right to make decisions about how to raise their children.
It's probably true that you could create a society that was better for everyone if you took children away from their parents.
If you raise them at boarding schools and made them you know do flash cards and learn geometry and french all day instead of play baseball.
But society doesn't do that.
We're content to say that parents have a right to determine how their children are going to be raised.
This is a good thing because it prevents society from leveling over distinct cultures.
We see that in the US for instance and also many other settler colony countries, it used to be the case that the native people had their children taken away by white people and raised in a more, what was thought to be, socially optimal way.
To kind of whitewash them.
We think that although obviously this is very different, there is a standing principle in western countries that parents decide how to raise their own children and that you need a tremendous amount of evidence to overturn this social norm.
Especially when we see that in the past it's created good children who are good citizens and hard workers and who are able to go on and succeed in life.
Perhaps in part because of this.
I think many people would recognize that they would rather give parents this freedom then rely on government to try to make decisions about how to raise children.
One instance of when I think that spanking is important for parents is for parents who don't have a lot of ways to use positive reinforcement.
If you, for instance, are an urban single mother in the united states you can't give your children a lot of positive reinforcement.
You don't have money to buy them things if they do well in school.
One of the only ways that you have to maintain discipline in your household is going to be the use of spanking sometimes.
And we think that if that leads to your children working harder in their studies or avoiding trouble, that ultimately that's clearly good for them.
We think that you know your own environment better than the government does and that therefore you can make a more intelligent decision about whether or not this is appropriate.
So that's a very clear example of when you might actually need this kind of discipline.
Our second argument is that we think that this ban is unenforceable so it's bad policy.
We don't think that government should make laws that are impossible to enforce.
It undermines people's faith in government, because they see the state is meddling and the state isn't enforcing the laws that it claims everybody has to abide by.
No one can go into every single house and check for this.
So we just don't think there's going to be any way that the government can actually enforce it.
So all those harms come through.
But aside from that, we think that the bright line is very unclear.
Is it abuse now if you grab your child by the arm to stop them from touching something that's hot?
At what point are you allowed to use physical force to restrain a child who's misbehaving?
We think that ultimately there's no clear bright lines here.
And that at that point this is poor policy so it shouldn't be implemented.
So because this limits the options and freedoms of parents, and because the law is unenforceable, we should not ban spanking.
Thank you.