Covenant marriage brings more good than harm.
So covenant marriage is essentially something that's been put into place in a handful of US states like louisiana, where when a couple gets married rather than a normal marriage that can be dissolved unilaterally by either partner, a covenant marriage is much more difficult to dissolve.
In order to enter into a covenant marriage people have to go through a certain amount of counseling and they have to sign a document that says that they agree that it would be very difficult for them to ever dissolve this covenant marriage, that they understand that this is pretty much a lifetime commitment.
So here's why we think it does more good than harm.
But before we get into our arguments, I'd just like to point out that when we talk about more good than harm obviously there's benefits and harms to both sides, but we think that there is ultimately we're going to be able to outweigh the harms with the good.
So two arguments.
The first is about why we get more choice for individuals on our side of the house.
Why is this a good thing?
First, we tell you that choice is tremendously important because it allows people to make decisions with as little government interference as possible.
We see that if there were no state, that people would probably have more ability to make individual decisions about how they want to live their lives but that the state limits those in some ways such as by establishing marriage contracts that differ from what individuals might come up with purely on their own.
We think that by allowing people who want to enter a covenant marriage to enter in because obviously no one's being coerced into this, if you are getting married in the US and you're coerced than the contract would be overturned in court.
So we see that people want to enter into this and we think that ultimately it is always preferable to defer to giving people the ability to do what they want when they're not harming other people.
This maximizes their freedom.
So does this maximize freedom becomes the question.
Does this give people more choice?
Well we see that at the point where people aren't being coerced and where they are choosing to opt into covenant marriage that this must fulfill some need that people have.
We think that in particular many conservative christians especially in the US where this has been popular, feel alienated by the increased rate of divorce and these people want to ensure that they don't make a mistake in the future.
This is a lot like getting insurance on your marriage basically against divorce in the future, that they don't do something that is contrary to their own value system.
They want to take a step to prevent a poor decision in the future.
We let people do things like this all the time.
We let people invest for retirement even though they could probably save on their own etcetera.
So we don't think that this is something that is completely unheard of for the state to allow people to enter into these restrictive contracts.
So at the day we do think that this maximizes choice and that this is ultimately going to outweigh the harms of people having limited choice in the future because they entered into this covenant.
Ultimately they freely opted in.
We're okay with that.
Our second argument is that this protects the partner who is less well off.
So if you think about divorce, generally in a marriage you're gonna have one partner who is making more money or has more resources than the other partner.
You might see that in a more traditional marriage maybe the husband owns the house and the car and has a really good job and the wife has been put her own career on hold in order to raise their children etcetera.
So obviously in that situation the wife would be in a really difficult position if the husband were to file for divorce and you know today things are a little different, maybe it will be the wife or maybe it would be a same sex marriage and you would have a different partner be better off, but the point still holds.
Now what we see is that yes in the status quo there's some effort made to assign some amount of the common property of the marriage to the partner who is less well off, but ultimately we think that these people should be able to take another step in order to protect themselves in the long term because if you put your career on hold you can never undo that.
If you choose to take time away from work or education that's something that will set back your income for the rest of your life.
So we think that you should be able to enter into a very strict contract in order to protect your investment of time into this marriage.
So for these two reasons we think that covenant marriages bring more good than harm.
Thank you.