The internet brings more good than harm.
Now, I think that it's clear that on our side of the debate we don't have to prove that everything on the internet is good, or that it's good for everyone at all times, only that on balance, the good it does outweighs the harm.
So that said, we have three major points.
Commerce, democracy, and media.
So our first point is about why the internet facilitates commerce around the globe.
Recognize that many people who otherwise could not open their own business are able to do so because of the internet.
In particular, we think that this benefits women and minorities in developed countries and developing countries.
It is much easier to begin your own business online, which doesn't require a massive influx of capital for a storefront, or for any sort of physical property, only intellectual property online.
For a cost of only a few dollars a month, someone can open a business that would have cost hundreds of dollars a month in terms of rent and things like that in the twentieth century.
We think that ultimately, this allows people to more freely exchange ideas, to access services they wouldn't have access to, and perhaps most importantly, it empowers people who traditionally have been excluded from commerce around the globe like women, like minority groups, who can now more easily get into business.
We think that this massive benefit to women around the world is going to outweigh the myriad harms of the internet that we hear about from the other team.
But that said, our second point is about democracy and democratization.
So the other side gives you the strange idea that democracy is decreasing around the world, and that the last twenty years hasn't been a period of expansion of democratic ideals.
But this simply isn't borne out by the facts.
We can see that in eastern europe, in some parts of asia, many countries have become much more democratic in the last twenty years.
And of course, they mention the arab spring and are quick to argue that that wasn't caused by the internet, or that dictators are now using the internet to crack down.
But it certainly is the case the revolutions that took place in north africa and the middle east would not have been possible without tools like twitter for organizing.
The reason why it was possible for young people to overthrow muammar qaddafi in the twenty tens in a way that wouldn't have been possible for them to do in the nineteen nineties, was the ease of organizing.
We think that even if governments can use the internet to be oppressive, it's much less revolutionary for governments than it is for the people who are oppressed.
Governments have always been able to crack down, to hurt people, to gather information, to spy.
But the internet provides a unique tool for anonymous communication and for organizing.
It's now possible to set up a protest with twenty thousand people in a matter of hours that would have taken months to plan in the past, and that's much harder for tin pot dictators like gaddafi to crack down on.
So we think that ultimately, the internet has made it possible for people to take control of their own countries and their own lives in a way they couldn't have otherwise.
And that it hasn't provided commensurate benefits to dictators and oppressive governments because they always had a huge increased amount of power relative to the people.
Our last point is about greater media.
And I think that even though the last two point certainly are more important, ultimately, the internet has allowed the creation of new types of art and more art to spread around the globe.
People who lived in countries who didn't have access to western media, for instance, now have much greater access to that media, and the same thing actually goes the other way as well.
Whereas there was a time when people in the united states would probably never have consumed art produced in sub sahara africa, or in the middle east or in southeast asia, now because of the internet people are exchanging art and media all around the globe.
We think that this leads to a globalization of culture.
What we mean by this is it's already the case that trade and commerce have globalized the world.
But to a large extent, cultural exchange hasn't been part of this.
We think that today, more people have more in common with others around the globe across national borders, and that in the long term this will lead to less conflict, because if people are more similar to one another, have an easier time sympathizing with one another because of common interest and admiration, we think ultimately the world will be a more peaceful place.
So for these reasons, because of the benefits to commerce, to democracy, and because of these media ties that will create a more peaceful society, we are proud to say the internet brings more good than harm.
Thank you.