Socialism brings more harm than good.
So, I just want to be very clear before we get into this debate.
By socialism, we mean the international workers movement, which has attempted to raise quality of life through union activism, through revolution against capitalist states, basically the movement that was so prominent in the late nineteenth through the twentieth centuries.
So with that in mind, this is an on balance debate.
What do I mean by that?
Obviously socialism has done a lot of really good things.
It's done a lot of really terrible things.
We think that in this debate, no one side has to prove that it's absolutely good or bad, just that the good outweighs the bad, or in our case that the harm outweighs the good.
And I think that also in this debate, it's important that we focus on the nations that are the worst off.
Why is this true?
Socialism might do some good for people in sweden, but ultimately we tell you, everyone in very developed countries is already better off than essentially everyone living in undeveloped countries.
The average person in india is much worse off than even the very poorest american, for instance, because they don't have access to things like clean, safe drinking water and electricity, that are taken for granted in this country.
So with that in mind, we have three big arguments.
The first is that revolutions that destabilize countries ultimately always do more harm than good.
Why is this true?
Let's take the best case for socialists.
Let's look at russia in nineteen seventeen.
You had this evil king who had put the country through a lot of war and conflict, who had starved people, who had prevented development that would have made the country better off, who was suppressing the rural people.
Even in that instance, when you had the perfect environment for a so-called just revolution, we see that the revolution ultimately harmed many more people than world war one or the czar himself actually did.
In the revolution, you had russian soldiers killing ukrainians, you had rebels looting farms, you ultimately had a conflict of the russian civil war that led into a tremendous famine that killed many more people than world war one did in russia.
So in in the end of the day, we think that revolutions, because they destabilize the production of food and goods and services, ruin peoples' lives and that these conflicts are never worth the ends that they claim that they will achieve.
So for that reason, we think that socialism brings more harm than good because it promotes these revolutions as a way to overthrow capitalism.
Our second argument is that socialism slows development.
The example that I want to talk about here is china.
So china was ruled by socialists from about nineteen forty nine when mao zedong won the civil war up until the early seventies when the gang of four was ousted after mao's death.
So at that time, we saw that china moved away from socialism and towards this kind of state-controlled capitalism.
What happened?
China went from a country with an average income of about twelve hundred dollars a year in today's money to a country with an average income of seven or eight thousand dollars a year in today's money.
This may not sound like a huge jump, but for the people living in china, it made an enormous difference.
They have much greater access to things like healthcare, they have more freedom about where they live and work, and ultimately people have a lot more personal freedom to make decisions about bettering their own life.
And that's possible because with capitalism, you can bring in foreign investment in order to grow more quickly.
A country often doesn't have enough capital to invest in itself in order to develop very quickly.
You need to bring in money from countries like the US or britain in order to develop, and we do that much better with capitalism than socialism.
So we think that slowing development ruins lives and therefore socialism brings more harm than good.
The last argument I'd like to make is one that's focused very much on the present, which is that socialism isolates countries.
The countries that still practice socialism, like cuba, have been isolated from the rest of the world because the other other countries are afraid basically of socialism spreading, they see them as a pariah.
What this means?
That you have more difficulty trading, you have a harder time importing goods, and since these countries are not very rich and powerful, this cuts off their access to important things like medical supplies and equipment that would make your people's lives much better.
So we think that ultimately, socialism brings more harm than good because it inspires revolutions, it slows development, and it isolates countries.
Thank you.