Suicide should be a criminal offense.
So I want to be very clear that in this debate, we aren't saying that there should be any particular action taken by a state when someone has attempted suicide.
And on top of that, I'd like to point out that obviously people who are unfortunately successful in suicide attempts can't be punished, we're not going to prevent them from being interred in public cemeteries and things like that.
We think that it should be people who attempt suicide or indicate attempt at suicide who should be taken into the legal system, and this is for two reasons.
One, we think that this could actually help victims of suicidal ideation.
So recognize that right now, states have relatively little incentive to take action to make suicide more difficult.
Recognize that when people are contemplating suicide, this is usually an ideation that only last for a few moments, it's not something that's planned out over the long term, and most people who attempt suicide and fail later say that they regret it and are glad that they've lived, and were able, you know, to go on with their lives.
So we think that governments have an obligation that they are failing to meet right now, to make suicide more difficult.
Doing things like installing barriers on bridges, limiting access to firearms for people with mental illness, limiting access to prescription drugs that could be abused in this way, and that ultimately the only way to make governments care is to involve the legal system.
We see that in the status quo, treating suicide as purely a health problem isn't working to get governments to take real action in order to help people who are in this position.
And recognize, these people are about as vulnerable as anyone in our society can get, at the point where their very lives are at risk because of an immutable characteristic.
Nobody chooses to have mental illness and we need to keep that in mind as we go forward.
But so we think that by making suicide a criminal offense, the government will have an obligation to step up to protect it or prevent it, in the same way that they have an obligation to prevent other forms of crime.
We see that governments take action to prevent things like theft and murder, we think that if suicide were treated in the same category, the governments would similarly have to intervene.
So when you think about this debate, you need to think how could we make governments behave in a way that will ultimately reduce the number of suicides.
And I think it's clear that on our side of the house, we're going to win this debate.
And we think that when people are ultimately charged with this attempt, we don't have to go and put them in prison, it's not gonna be like orange is the new black.
We can instead put these people in mental hospitals, we can commit them against their will if we need to, which is something that's very difficult to do in many liberal countries, but that might be the best thing for these people.
We can have them assessed by medical professionals and make sure that they get the treatment that they need free of charge, things like that.
So recognize that the quote unquote punishment that we assign doesn't have to be prison, it can be help that these people really need in this vulnerable position.
So with that in mind I think that we're clearly better on our side for the victims of mental illness.
And our second argument, just briefly, is about how this changes business incentives.
Right now, groups like insurance companies, life insurance companies, are kind of in an awkward position when it relates to suicide.
Life insurance, as far as I know, in basically every country doesn't pay out for suicide.
But we think that at the point where this is a death that is caused by illness, it probably ought be covered in some way.
So what happens when suicide becomes criminalized?
First of all, now there's a very clear legal stance for suicide, it's not something that's grey.
So we think that you'll more likely to see legislation that surrounds this, surrounds the ability ability of these policies to be paid out, things like that.
And even if insurance companies continue not to pay out, we think that it's easier for families to get recourse as effectively the victims of a crime, and then actually have some way to support themselves, if, you know, a primary provider is the person who takes this unfortunate action.
So at the end of the day, we think we're also better for the families by clarifying the legal status of suicide.
For these reasons, I think that it's clear that they should be a criminal offense.
Thank you.