We should ban the spanking of children.
Basically what we are defending in this debate is a categorical ban on striking your children.
This kind of policy already exists in some countries like germany, whereas in other countries like the UK and the US the use of force is limited but not prohibited.
Three arguments for you today: the first, and I think the least important, but one that's worth getting out there, is that spanking doesn't work.
Children don't change their behavior.
They just learn to lie about it and conceal poor behavior from their parents.
The reason that this is true is that in order to change someone's behavior you need them to internalize why their behavior is wrong.
If you hit someone for something and they don't understand why, as is often going to be the case with these children, we tell you that ultimately they won't change their behavior in any meaningful way, they'll just learn to conceal it from you in order to avoid being spanked.
At that point we tell you that this is poor parenting and that it ought to be banned in order to prevent people who are uneducated from relying upon it as a parenting technique.
So our first main argument is that this is a form of child abuse.
You wouldn't let someone hit a child in any other circumstances, so why should it be okay if it's connected to a bad grade school or cheating in a soccer match?
We think that ultimately it's important that the law is consistent.
Right now there's a huge amount of gray area between what is child abuse and what isn't.
In districts like where I live in boston, where this is legal, we tell you that parents can playoff legitimate abuse as discipline and that ultimately people who are mandatory reporters, such as teachers, might be willing to overlook clear signs of abuse because they chalk it up to discipline rather than what it really is.
So ultimately we think that because this is indistinguishable from abuse in terms of its practical outcomes, namely injured children, and because it discourages people from reporting and dealing with abuse, that we need to ban spanking and require people who are mandatory reporters to report signs of spanking as well as other abuse.
Our second argument is that this causes children to internalize harmful norms.
So realize the way that we treat people as children determines how they treat others as adults.
What message does that send when you teach children that because parents are bigger than them, they get to hit them when they do something they don't like?
We think that it's no surprise that people who grow up in abusive households are much more likely to go on to be abusive themselves.
Ultimately it seems very likely that children who were spanked are likely to use violence as a problem solving method later on.
We think that this doesn't imply that those people lack moral character, but this is probably something that they internalize and never think critically about because the experienced it at such a young age.
We think that the state needs to intervene here because there is a clear third party harm to spanking.
Right?
It's not just an interaction between parent and child.
We think that in that case maybe there's a world in which the state should stay out of it.
But we think that because this socializes children to have such a negative effect on others, that ultimately there is a clear state interest in preventing this behavior.
So what we've shown you today is that spanking is inefficient and it needs to be banned, because parents who lack information will continue to use it even though, you know, doctors and psychiatrists have been advising against it for decades.
We also think it should be banned because in its material effects it's indistinguishable from abuse and it makes it easier for parents to conceal abuse.
And lastly we've explained to you that it ought be banned because it causes children to internalize harmful norms, and that ultimately this makes them more of a threat to others and a danger to society compared to people who were not spanked.
So for these reasons we think it's clear that government intervention is justified and that we should ban spanking.
Thank you.