We should legalize the ivory trade.
So, the sale of ivory has been banned since the early nineteen nineties.
We think that, that ban should be lifted internationally.
Before we get into our arguments, I just wanna be clear that we're not saying: you have open season on elephants, down in sub saharan africa, what we're saying is that, the trade of ivory, that has already been harvested in the past, should be permitted, and we think that, if in the future it's possible to sustainably harvest ivory, such as from naturally deceased elephants, then we would be principally okay with that as well.
So two main arguments for why the ban should be lifted.
The first is that it's not working.
Elephant populations are on the decline again.
Immediately after the ban, in the mid nineteen nineties, you saw a slight uptick in elephant populations, but that is now been reversed, and they are at their lowest rate yet.
It is the definition of insanity to do the same thing and expect different results, so why should we expect that the ivory ban will save the elephants, when in fact the opposite is happening?
They're continuing to be killed.
We see that, the demand for ivory is being filled, regardless of whether or not the trade is legal.
At that point, banning the ivory trade seems much less effective, than carefully regulating the ivory trade.
If there were a legal way for people to acquire ivory, then it's much less likely that they would go through illegal back channels.
After all, they run a certain amount of risk that shipments will be captured, or that they'll be arrested for having illegal ivory.
If people could get it legally, even at a much higher price, we think that they would prefer to do so.
So therefore, we think it would always be preferable to regulate, tax, carefully monitor the ivory trade, rather than just to ban it outright.
We think that, that is part of what has led to the uptake in poaching and increased devastation to the elephant population.
Our second argument, for why we should legalize the ivory trade, is about the effect that this would have on african economies.
Recognize that, many countries, like south africa, are sitting on large stockpiles of ivory, that was harvested before the ban, or that has been seized from poachers.
They don't just destroy it, after all, when they capture it.
These are countries that desperately need development, and that are sitting on lots of capital that, they're not allowed to use in the form of this ivory.
We think it's very likely that, if a country like south africa were permitted to sell this ivory, that they would better be able to protect their elephants.
Recognize that, highly developed countries are much better at managing their wildlife, and at preventing poaching, than desperately poor countries.
We think that, if you encourage development in sub saharan african nations that have large elephant populations, or in india for that matter, where you have lots of elephants, we think that it's much more likely that, you would be able to protect the populations that exist, and help them to recover.
Right now, effectively, the protection of elephants relies on international charity, or on desperately cash strapped governments.
We don't think that that is sustainable.
We think that, you need to help these countries to be able to support the elephants on their own.
And in particular, if elephants were seen as an asset, rather than a liability, as a potential source of revenue, we think it's much more likely that countries would protect them, and limit the harvest of illegal ivory, in order to be able to capture the money from the regulation of legal ivory.
So, you would align the fiscal and ethical duties of the state by doing this.
We think that, in our world, it's much more likely that you would still have elephants around in a hundred years, because to be clear, the trend right now was that, elephants are going to go away in a few decades.
They'll all go extinct because of over hunting.
Drastic action must be taken to prevent this from happening.
Legalizing the ivory trade may seem like a counter intuitive way to do this, but if you give people, if you attach people's wallets to the well being of the elephants, then we think that, ultimately, it's much more likely that they will continue to be around.
Because greed is unlikely to go away, even if elephants are at risk.
So for these reasons, we should legalize the ivory trade, thank you.