We should legalize cell phone use while driving.
So in this debate what we're going to tell you is that it would be better to legalize and regulate cell phone use rather than have a categorical ban.
We see that many districts, such as the state of new york in america, have a categorical ban on any cell phone use while driving.
We think that ultimately there are many reasons why that's undesirable and why regulated cell phone use would be preferable.
Three arguments.
The first is that these bands don't reflect the current state of technology.
Today with the rise of smartphones and phones being integrated into cars, we think that people are able to use phones much more safely than they could in two thousand or two thousand two when these laws are being put into place.
We think that with that in mind, we should regulate such that people are allowed to use things like apple in their cars, or android for cars, but aren't allowed to use things like traditional cell phones which are much more dangerous.
We think that it's important the law reflect changes to technology and that ultimately a categorical band lacks the flexibility to adapt in this way.
Our second argument is that we allow other distractions and that we ought be principally consistent.
So on our side we tell you that while it's true that we wouldn't allow people to text, there are many other uses for the phone that are less distracting.
For instance, you can have a conversation on the phone with no more distraction that having a conversation with the passenger.
At the end of the day the other side needs to explain to you why we're okay with allowing people to do things like listen to music, or talk to another person, but why we categorically ban talking on the phone.
We don't think they'll be able to do so.
We think that this is principally inconsistent.
Why is this a problem?
People follow the law when they think the law is fair and just.
We tell you that when law seem arbitrary and stupid, that people are much more likely to disregard them even when the laws are actually good.
In other words, when you have a ban on talking on the phone and citizens realize that this band is effectively a nanny state overstepping its bounds to ban something that's not actually dangerous, then they're less likely to respect other regulations because they now associate the state with this kind of overprotective mother figure.
We think that this is a particularly egregious example of such a nanny state because so many adults drive and almost all of them talk on the phone while they do so.
At that point we would prefer a world in which it's regulated intelligently so that people can respect the law and follow it more easily.
Our last argument is that ultimately we think that this is an unenforceable ban.
What do we mean by this?
The only way to catch people who are using their phones while driving, is if they are caught committing another crime.
So if you're speeding and the police officer sees you have your phone out when they pull you over or something like that.
What this means is that this could only ever be prosecuted as an additional crime to something else.
It's an auxiliary.
We think that it's impossible to ever actually catch all the people using their phones and that people know this.
What this means is that people flaunt the law which leads into everything I just told you about how they have less respect for it, but also we think that in general, the law shouldn't be so such so difficult to enforce.
We think that we should focus on regulations that officers can actually catch people breaking and that we can actually prosecute people for.
Having useless laws on the books just means that they will be applied in instances when they probably aren't appropriate such as if a prosecutor wants to get someone for drunk driving and doesn't have the evidence instead, they'll go after them for using their phone.
We think that it won't be prosecuted on its own but rather that it will be a crutch for lazy prosecution.
So at the end of the day we think that although clearly it's not ideal for people to be distracted by their phone while driving, that ultimately the risk is decreased due to technological changes, that it's principally no different than talking to a passenger, and that the ban is unenforceable.
For these reasons, I encourage you to support legalizing cell phone use while driving.
Thank you.