We should not ban human cloning.
Before I get into my arguments, I'd just like to point out that, obviously, we think the technology has improved since dolly the sheep and that it will continue to get better.
So any complaint that's based on the feasibility of human cloning shouldn't really play into this debate.
I think we can just assume that human cloning is feasible to some extent for this debate to even take place.
That said, our first argument is about individual autonomy.
It is a widely accepted human right for people to choose to have children.
This is why the international community was so upset back when china had the one-child policy.
The other side of this debate needs to explain why cloning is fundamentally distinct from having children.
If I choose to freeze my sperm and then later have a child conceived in vitro, how is that different than me choosing to have a child cloned instead from one of my cells?
They both rely on science to create a new child from me in a way that some people who might be religious or more conservative would see as frightening or unusual.
But, ultimately, we respect the fact that it's up to every individual how, when and if they want to have children, and I really don't see why clones should be treated differently.
After all, your child is half of your DNA.
Why does it make a huge difference if your child is instead one hundred percent your DNA?
This person will still live their own life and be their own human being, and perhaps they will face some health problems but, hopefully, this can be ironed out, and the situation will never improve if we don't allow research into cloning first.
So, therefore, we think it'd be a violation of individual autonomy not to allow people to choose to clone themselves.
We're fine with banning cloning others without their consent or putting limitations on how we clone other people, but if I want to make james two, I really ought be able to.
And our second argument is about safety and the black market.
Presumably, once human cloning is possible and available, someone somewhere in the world is going to do it.
Maybe it'll be some mad scientist or maybe some countries, like singapore, will choose not to ban it in order to attract medical tourists.
So what does the world look like in that case?
First of all, we think that it would ultimately be safer if it were legal in highly developed countries.
So maybe singapore was a bad example, because they have excellent hospitals.
But if people have to go to a developing country in order to get this done that has lower safety standards, then presumably any health risks that the other side of this debate is concerned about will be exacerbated by those lower standards.
Similarly, it seems quite likely that a black market will emerge if there's a demand for this project.
Even if you got every country in the world that had the capacity for human cloning to ban it, something like a ban on nuclear proliferation, someone somewhere is going to offer it.
In the same way that abortion is widely available in countries where abortion is illegal, we think that people will find a way to set up labs that are able to do this.
Maybe it'll be disguised, maybe they'll be run by organized crime, who knows?
But what's clear is that, first of all, if you introduce a black market, you just make organized crime stronger and richer but also, all of the safety harms are vastly increased.
The last thing I'd like to point out is that if you make people go to mexico or go through the mafia in order to do this, only the super rich will be able to partake, because the cost will be so much higher.
In our world, where this is something that's done safely in canada and britain, we think that more middle-class people will be able to participate and therefore, that you'll see more people of different walks of life having access to this, such as people of different races and different religions, rather than just the super elite who tend to be from one particular background.
So we think that would be preferable as well.
For all these reasons, we should not ban human cloning.
Thank you.