Recall elections are not beneficial.
So what we're going to argue on our side is that although there are certainly some benefits to recall elections in general they are not beneficial for democratic societies.
So with that in mind we have three points: the first is that recall elections are divisive.
This is on the one hand intuitively obvious that some people will support and other people will oppose the recall election.
But I think that actually recall elections lead to a society being more polarized.
Why is this the case?
So in the status quo you elect your leader, of let's say a governor, and then whoever loses has to come to terms with the fact that this person is going to be their leader for the next few years.
So people have an incentive to work together because they're stuck with each other effectively until the end of the term.
But with recall elections there's no reason for any side to give up after an election.
Even if you lose you just want to try to do whatever you can to smear that person in office so that you can get them removed through a recall election and get your own person into place.
In other words recall elections remove the incentive for people from different political parties to work together and increase polarization.
Which makes it less likely that you will be able to have bipartisan solutions to problems.
Why is this so important?
Everyone who relies on government services needs government officials to work together in a productive way so that society can continue to move forward.
And that can't happen if you have these recall elections that prevent people from ever giving up on the campaign trail.
So for these reasons we think the divisiveness outweighs the benefits.
Our second point is about a false sense of control.
The other team says that recall elections get more power to the people but we don't think that's really true.
We think that voter turnout is likely to be much lower for recall elections and that it's much more likely that people who support the person will turn out to protect their interests than people who are opposed.
Why is this true?
People who support the person in office have many more access to much more access to information and resources relative to people who aren't in favor of the person currently in office, because presumably government materials etcetera are going to be favorable to the incumbent.
At that point we think that people won't actually be able to have successful recall elections and we've seen this in the united states where every recall election held in recent years has failed, even when the person in office had a very low approval rating.
What this means is that people have a false sense of having control over the government when really they don't have any control at all.
This means that they're more likely to be complacent when the government behaves abusively or inappropriately.
They'll think that they have the ability to just remove anyone who's doing a bad job from office when in fact they can't do anything about it because the recall isn't a real option.
This means that people are less likely to seek other political solutions, such as voting in mid term elections, or changing laws to reduce the power of executives because they think that they have this check.
So at the end of the day we think that this gives the semblance of control without giving the reality of control and that it undermines the political will to limit the powers of executives and otherwise solve problems of abuse.
We think that this also outweighs the benefits that they have and undercuts the idea that they get all these benefits from having recall elections.
Our third argument is about how this reduces the power of people whose franchise is limited.
So think about people who live in urban areas and have to work lots of shifts because they're low income.
For these people voting once every few years is actually a significant burden.
Oftentimes you have to take time off work without pay, in countries like the united states that don't actually have a national voting holiday, and even if you are able to get time off work you still have to arrange for childcare, and transportation, and other things.
So it's a tremendous burden for some people to go to a polling place.
Especially because they don't tend to be as common in low income areas.
But now when you have recall elections you have an unscheduled election that people can't plan for far in advance.
We think this makes it likely that urban workers and low income workers who are already some of those worst off in society will be unable to participate in these recall elections so they will just entrench the power of the elite at the expense of the people.
For these three reasons, because of the divisiveness speaks of the false sense of control and because it reduces the power of those worst off, we think recall elections are not beneficial.
Thank you.