We should not legalize the ivory trade.
We have a couple of arguments for why this is the case.
The first thing I'd like to talk about is why this only kills more elephants, rhinoceri and other ivory-producing animals.
Rachel tells you that there will be an impetus for conservation because, now, game wardens and the people who own these elephant stocks will want to make money off of the licenses.
But the people who are poaching right now aren't going to benefit from this.
The people who are going out right now and poaching are frankly desperate individuals just trying to provide for themselves through crime, not people who are upwardly mobile enough to manage these game parks after the law changes.
So what does that mean?
Now you have the game wardens, who right now are very actively against killing elephants, killing elephants, and you have all the poachers with the same incentives to kill elephants, so they're going to continue killing elephants, and the states in which these animals live are not able to prevent poaching.
We've seen that very clearly over the last fifty years as elephant and rhinoceros stocks have been wiped out almost to the point of extinction.
It's impossible for these governments to step in.
So, very likely, this will just lead to an increase in the number of elephants killed: you don't subtract any from the poachers and you add the ones that are killed legally now.
And moreover, you change the culture of conservation.
Right now, conservators are very against the killing of elephants.
But if you allow them to make money off of it, then they will be much more willing to look the other way, because it's no longer just repugnant to them the idea that this would be done in the first place.
So we think that, ultimately, this would only have practical harms inasmuch as we're trying to protect elephants, and this leads to more of them being slaughtered.
Therefore, we should absolutely maintain the ban on the ivory trade.
But our next argument is why, even if this policy might save a couple of elephants, it would still be unethical.
Let's consider what makes a policy ethical or unethical.
The easiest way to do this is to look at its utility.
Does it create more benefit or more harm?
I already explained why I think this policy is likely to create more harm, and therefore why, from a utilitarian perspective, it's probably unethical.
But I think probably the more interesting way to decide this is: is this ethical from a deontological perspective?
What do I mean by this?
Many people believe that in order for something to ethical, it must be an ethical law.
In other words, it must always be the right thing to do, not something subjective.
This is a well-respected view, because many people feel that the right thing can't just change in every instance, according to circumstance.
The right thing is the right thing.
And it seems quite intuitively obvious that killing elephants is the wrong thing.
These are animals with tremendous intelligent, some of the smartest creatures in the world.
They have densely woven social structures.
They experience grief.
They feel loss at the death of a loved one and, ultimately, they deserve very strong protections because of this intelligence, in the same way that dolphins and chimpanzees and bonobos do.
We think, therefore, that it's unethical to slaughter these creatures for the same reasons that it would be unethical to slaughter a mentally disabled human being, since that's very similar to the level of intelligence that they have.
But moreover, it's obvious that not everyone can kill an elephant, right?
They say that they want to set a limit based on money, but this seems quite arbitrary and more like they're using these elephants as a means to an end.
So, there's no ethical law.
And let's come down to that means to an end point.
It is wrong to treat these elephants as just an instrument to raise funny for games parks.
Their value is in the fact that they were created by god or created by nature with certain gifts of intelligence and certain natural value.
It's not something that we can reduce just to a monetary value, which is what you do if you legalize the ivory trade.
So we think, therefore, it would be deeply unethical to do so no matter what perspective you approach it from.
Thank you.