We should abolish three strikes laws.
So, just so everyone's clear about what this debate is about, we're talking about laws which require that people who have been convicted of three crimes be given a harsher sentence.
Oftentimes, in places like california, you'll have mandatory sentencing for people after their third crime is committed.
So we have three main arguments for why this should be abolished: the first is that these are fundamentally arbitrary punishments that we're assigning to people.
Recognize that not all crimes are created equal.
Someone may have, say, spray painted a building and that might be a criminal offense in one district and someone else might have stolen car.
It seems absurd that the person who spray painted the building three times should be given a harsh sentence in the same way that a person who stole three cars would be.
One is clearly a much greater crime than the other.
The problem that we have with three strikes sentencing is that it fails to take into account the differences between individual situations, and we think that this leads to arbitrary punishment.
We think that judges as individuals are better able to make decisions about fair sentencing than a law which takes nothing into account.
For instance, three strikes laws cannot account for if someone is mentally challenged or if someone is a youth coming from a troubled home.
All they do is look at the number of crimes someone has committed.
In addition they don't take into account facts like that certain police departments, like the LAPD, might be much more likely to go after someone an attempt to bring a charge than other police departments.
Ultimately, all of these variations which an individual judge could take into account are ignored by three strikes' sentencing.
This leads to unfair sentencing because the punishment is divorced from the crime.
We think therefore that this should be abolished and that we should return discretion to individual judges, who are after all experts, and have the most access to individual information.
Our second argument against three strikes policies is that they lead to higher incarceration rates.
Since the early nineties, when these policies became common in states in the US, the country has reached the highest level of incarceration ever seen in human history.
There are more people in prison in the united states than china or other much larger, more populous countries.
But on top of that we also see that the rate of incarceration has not fallen evenly across society.
That disproportionately young black men are being incarcerated because of these policies.
Why is that the case?
We see that, first of all, it's much more likely that juries will convict black men, which means that it's more likely that they'll reach this burden of, or this line of three convictions.
But on top of that we see that the anti-social behaviors that are likely to be committed by inner city youths are much more likely to be criminalized then the anti-social behaviors of suburban or rural people.
We see that, for instance, a possession of a certain amount of marijuana is a crime but that it's really only enforced in cities where the police go around and shake people down and take their drugs.
So what has effectively happened is you've created a perpetual underclass of people who are very likely to be incarcerated.
Young black men are more likely to go to jail than college in this country.
We think that if you abolish three strikes laws, that judges could take into account the fact that some communities are unfairly policed, could take into account the fact that what some people need is help and an opportunity, not jail.
Ultimately, once more we see that individual judges are in a better position to make decisions and that if you gave more discretion to judges, fewer people would be sentenced for jail time.
You'd be more likely to see fines or community service, that might actually benefit the community in some way, rather than jail time, which can only harm the community as it removes people and takes away their labor.
So for these reasons we should abolish three strikes laws.
Thank you.