Reality television does more harm than good.
So just to be clear what we're talking about, we're looking at programs like american idol, survivor, the bachelor, things like that where they'd record people supposedly in real or genuine situations and then edit what they record and put it on TV for everyone to watch and by do more harm than good, I think that what we're defending on our side is that the world would be a better place if there were no reality television.
So with that in mind, two main arguments for you.
The first is that reality television promotes unrealistic and harmful expectations in its viewers.
Recognize that reality television does something that other forms of entertainment don't, which is that it claims to reflect the real world as it is.
We think that when people watch, say, drama on television, they don't expect it to accurately reflect the way that people live and they don't allow it to inform their own expectations for their lives in the same way that they would for reality television.
Why must this be true?
When people watch reality TV shows, something like I don't know, keeping up with the kardashians, they watch this and even though it's heavily edited and doesn't reflect the lives that the characters live, they watch this with the expectation that it does because that's the fiction that the producers of the show create.
What this means is that people think that their lives should be similar to the ones on television, that they should follow a narrative in a script, that they should be able to conspicuously consume in the same way as the people on the show.
Now it's true that conspicuous consumption obviously is much older than reality television.
That people have been envious of the wealthy and powerful much longer than reality television has been around, but I do think that it intensifies these experiences when people see a super heightened fictional reflection of what it's like to be in a particular circumstance and then feel inadequate about their own lives, when they compare them to this reality television.
I think that the particular thing that we regret so much about reality television is the claim that it reflects the real world.
If you produce the same shows with the acknowledgment that they are heavily edited works of fiction, then we think that you wouldn't see these harms to the same degree because people particularly those who are young and impressionable or less educated wouldn't be under the impression that this reflects the real world.
With that in mind I think it's clear that the harms to those populations clearly outweigh any benefits in terms of entertainment value that these reality shows may have.
Our second argument is that reality television is harmful because it crowds out other media.
The reason why it seems like any TV channel you turn on nowadays is showing reality television is that this is the cheapest form of TV to produce.
Something like a drama like law and order cost a certain amount in terms of writing and you have to travel around for sets, there's lots of union people you have to employ, it's very expensive to produce something like that even if it is ultimately successful but a reality TV show can draw the same number of viewers and you don't need the same amount of expensive writers or the same amount of help.
You can choose to film it in a given location.
Many reality TV shows have as this form of gimmick that they're filmed on an island or something, presumably somewhere where you don't have to hire a lot of union people the way you would if you filmed in los angeles.
So we see that you see a reduction in other types of television entertainment as a result of the increased popularity of reality TV.
We think that this limits the access to producing television for many communities, that you're more likely to see the crowding out of dramas with african american stars or dramas that appeal to a particular other minority group because there are likely to be fewer instances of these genres being produced in the first place given that reality TV is crowding them out.
We think that the losers are always going to be those at the fringes.
So for these reasons we think that reality TV does more harm than good.
Thank you.