Airport racial profiling in the united states is justified.
So what we're talking about is that in the US, if you go to a major airport, the TSA, which is the big security agency, we'll look for people who they believe are of arab or perhaps persian heritage and attempt to search those people at a much greater rate and more thoroughly than they would search say white americans.
And we're arguing that this is something that the state should continue to do because it's just.
So, two main arguments.
The first is that we think that this racial profiling ultimately will stop acts of terror.
Recognize first of all, that there was relatively little racial profiling before the nine eleven attacks the nine eleven attacks happen.
Now there's a great deal of racial profiling but there hasn't been another major terror attack in the united states.
Conversely, rates of hijacking have continued to remain high in other parts of the world.
They've really only decreased here since nine eleven.
We think that greater security measures including profiling are the like the reason why.
It's true that it's difficult to separate the effectiveness of racial profiling from the effectiveness of greater airport security in general, but we think that clearly this tactic is working and since the purpose of airport security is to reduce hijacking and acts of terror, that we ought not change what we're doing.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
But on top of that, we think that it is ethically acceptable to profile given that it is effective.
We think that clearly if well, this airport profiling may be you know uncomfortable or frustrating to certain individuals, that the benefits to the general public of knowing that they can fly in safety are much greater.
On aggregate, the benefits of this policy to the majority of people are much greater than the harms to a small minority of people who suffer as a result of this policy.
We're perfectly fine with saying here that the ends justify the means.
If we get safer travel and if we do it by discomforting a small minority of people, then we're perfectly okay with risking that harm in order to achieve the greater end.
We think that what would be unjust would be to say that the right of a small minority of people not to be profiled is greater than the right of others to travel in relative safety.
One, because of the number of people affected and two, because we think that the potential harms of terror attacks grossly outweigh the harms of being felt up by a security official in an airport.
It's certainly unpleasant, but at the end of the day it's not the end of the world, where is for someone on the hijacked plane, that may well be the end of the world.
So with these arguments in mind, we think that it's clear that this is a just policy because it stops terrorists.
Our second argument is that this is a just policy because it is the public will.
We think that in order to be just, a liberal democracy like the united states must obey the public will and the american people clearly support profiling at airports.
They re-elected george bush, they were broadly supportive of the creation of the TSA, and if they resent the TSA now it's because they don't like having to take their laptop out at security, not that they're opposed to the agency in and of itself.
We think that the american government has an obligation to act as it's people would have it act.
The senators and congress people in the US are not trustees who act as the betters of the american people to make decisions for them.
They are representatives who reflect the will of the people.
At that point we think it would be very much unjust for them to ignore this.
We think that the policy is justified because it is supported by public opinion.
Now the other side is going to tell you that individual rights can't be subject to majority approval, but we tell you that the right being violated here, namely the right to travel in comfort at the airport, is of a fairly low level.
We're not talking about hurting people physically here.
So at the end of the day, we think that this is acceptable.
For these reasons, we think that airport racial profiling in the US is justified.
Thank you.