We should adopt libertarianism.
So libertarianism is a broad term, but in this debate we're going to talk about two guiding principles that we think society should adopt that would make the world a better place to live.
The first is the non aggression principle.
This is the idea that it is unjust and immoral to act aggressively towards another person, to compel them to do something, to take something that is theirs etcetera.
The second principle is that maximizing freedom should be the first and foremost aim of any policy or any organization within society.
That ultimately promoting freedom is more important than protecting health or wealth because individuals deserve this freedom by virtue of being human beings.
It's a natural right.
So three arguments.
The first is that individuals know what is in their best interest better than anyone else.
Right now most governments around the world are sort of nanny states if I can use the british term.
For instance, where I live in boston it's illegal to smoke cigarettes in a bar.
It might be true that smoking cigarettes poses health risks to me although the state is compelling me to go smoke on the sidewalk not stopping me from smoking overall or to others in the form of secondhand smoke.
But what we tell you is that ultimately the state of massachusetts doesn't know how much benefit I derive from smoking cigarettes in a bar.
Maybe the social benefits that I gain, maybe the personal pleasure that I derive from this outweighs for me, the risks to my own health.
We tell you that it would be preferable to have the state defer to letting individual bar owners make this decision rather than making it for everyone because they also can't determine maybe some bar owners would rather have more money by letting people smoke or by selling cigarettes rather than avoiding the risk of secondhand smoke and the damage that smell of cigarettes does to their equipment.
So ultimately we think that the government just lacks the ability to make these decisions for individuals so we ought defer to them.
This is the principle of maximizing freedom whatever possible so that individuals can make their own choices and their own decisions.
Our second argument is that the state is abusive by its nature.
Imagine a world in which nobody lived in a state.
You wouldn't have to give your property up to anyone else in the form of taxation, which effectively is when the state comes and take something from you in violation of the non-aggressor principle and you would be able to freely form whatever agreements and compacts with other people that you want.
There would be no limitation on your freedom to make contracts or agreements with other individuals.
So we think that without the state people would be more able to self actualize, to do the things that they wish to do.
There would be fewer limitations on their freedom to move freely, their freedom to spend their money as they wish, to start businesses without licenses, things like that.
At the end of the day in terms of protecting us from aggression and in terms of maximizing freedom, we think that a world with less of a state would be better.
So we ought adopt libertarianism.
And our last argument is about why we think everybody craves freedom and why we think that we could better provide it.
If you imagine yourself standing behind a magical veil of ignorance which prevents you from knowing any information about yourself, you don't know if you're what your sex, or gender, or sexuality, or job, or personal wealth, or nationality are.
Behind that veil you would probably want to be able to make as many decisions for yourself is possible.
Right now governments often make laws that benefit a majority at the expense of a minority.
For instance, governments ban things that are offensive to christians and legalize things that are offensive to muslims in the united states because there are more christians then muslims.
Ultimately we don't think this is just.
We think that it is an act of government aggression against muslims for the benefit of christians and behind the veil when you don't know if you're a christian or a muslim, we think that you would prefer not to have that state of affairs exist.
So we think that the native natural state for people would be to want maximum freedom and that we could better derive that through libertarianism with less intervention by government etcetera.
For all these reasons, we think we should adopt libertarianism.
Thank you.