We should not ban child actors.
Our first argument for this is that we think you should always use the least restrictive means as government.
By this we mean to say that fundamentally this debate comes down to whether or not government should intervene to prevent children from working as actors and actresses.
But we think that fundamentally people always prefer freedom to regulation, as long as the government doesn't have a compelling reason to intervene.
We think that it is, whenever possible, better to have a lower level of regulation so that people can better act according to their own wishes and desires and principles, rather than imposing the government's will or society's wills upon the individual.
We think that it is much less restrictive then to require education and to require good treatment and to limit working hours etcetera, for these children who are engaged as child actors.
In doing so it is entirely possible to have young people work as actors and still grow up to be productive members of society.
At that point we don't see what the government needs to intervene to a higher degree.
The other team might tell you that this level of regulation is actually quite difficult, but we tell you that states like california already do this and we don't see massive harms for most child actors.
The stereotype that every child actor goes on to become some sort of tormented soul who's a drug addict, is one ultimately funny enough created by hollywood, we think, and not reflective of real life, when many child actors probably go on to have other careers and be perfectly successful happy people.
And then they're going to give this strange example about why we wouldn't let a twelve will be a doctor so we ought not let them be an actor.
The difference is obviously in training and the effect on others.
If a child is a poor actor, you know, maybe they're not pleasant to watch but that doesn't really harm anyone.
A child can't be a doctor because they lack the education and obviously they would harm people by doing this job.
We think that fundamentally it's okay to allow children to work when they don't pose a risk to themselves or others and we think that that's clearly not the case here, as I'll show in my next point and as is intuitively true in the case of others.
So why is child acting not harmful to children?
Let's think about the type of work that being a child actor actually entails.
You are safe, you're working on the set of a movie, it's not like they're having you go bungee jumping, and there are still rules about what children are and aren't allowed to do so we don't think they're going to be like filming in a nuclear submarine where they're at great risk.
On top of that, this work is often pretty well paid.
We think that for many children this might be an opportunity to earn money that otherwise they wouldn't have.
If this makes their family more financially secure then we think that that is only a good thing for these children.
It provides them with education in a trade and access to many other trades.
Recognize that acting jobs are union jobs, in the united states are quite good, and we think that, broadly speaking, around the world actors are better paid than many other professions.
On top of that, there are lots of ancillary industries that this provides an entry to.
Children can learn about being sound men and working in other jobs that are related to the film and acting industries that could ultimately offer them a career in the future.
We think that clearly, therefore, being a child actor can be a net good to children, with good regulation.
We also think though that this provides children an opportunity to learn to make decisions.
Choosing to become an actor or choosing to take on certain roles teaches children about responsibility and the consequences of their actions.
We think that it's important that children are allowed to make mistakes and to make decisions so that by the time they're adults they, broadly speaking, have gained this skill.
Because decision making is a skill.
If you haven't made many decisions, than you lack the information to make future decisions.
So we want children to be able to choose and to fail.
And with regard to the idea of parental pressure, this is probably true but we don't see why it's unique to acting.
If someone's parents make them play basketball for instance, that might be harmful to some children, might damage their childhood, but no more so than acting.
We don't see why this is the one unique case when government should intervene.
At the point where you have overzealous parents making their kids play sports or study twenty three hours a day, we don't see why acting should be the one time that the government gets involved.
So for these reasons we should not ban child actors.
Thank you.