We should not permit the use of cell phones while driving.
This is already the status quo in many parts of the united states and I would be surprised if it were not in other parts of the world as well.
We would argue that cell phone should not be allowed to be used while driving for two reasons.
The first is that there is a legitimate case for the government to intervene to prevent people from using their cell phones.
When do we think the government ought intervene to limit people's freedom?
We give you a few different reasons.
First, we tell you that when there is a harm to third parties of someone's choices or actions that those choices or action should be limited by the state.
Now obviously if you're talking on the phone while you're driving or trying to pull up navigation or something like that you're not paying full attention to the road and the people around you.
This puts others at risk in terms of their safety.
For instance, if you don't see a pedestrian because you are pulling up spotify on your phone, then it's much more likely that you're going to hit and injure or even kill that person.
So we think that it's clear that there are third party harms and therefore that the state is justified in intervening to limit people's cell phone use while they drive.
The second instance when we think it's okay for the government to intervene is when there is a limited amount of information available to people to make a decision and we see that people, generally speaking, overestimate their own driving ability quite a bit.
No one in the world or very few people will volunteer as a poor driver but by the laws of statistics half of all people must be below average drivers.
We think that it's unlikely that individuals can really assess if they are skilled enough to drive while using a cell phone if that's even such a thing that's possible.
We think that people are unlikely to be able to weigh and balance the risks that exist.
So we need the state intervene and prevent people from making poor decisions that could go on to harm people and the last instance would be when there's a compelling public interest and because ultimately people rely on the state to provide them with safe roads, we think that there is a compelling state interest in this case.
So for all these reasons, we think it's just for the government to stop people from using their cell phones.
But the second argument I'd like to make is much simpler.
Let's think about the benefits of using your cell phone like while driving.
Maybe you receive an important call.
Maybe you are able to find your way more easily because you can adjust your navigation.
Okay, so those are the benefits.
What are the potential risks?
Well, other people could be killed or injured if you hit them with your car.
You could suddenly have to slam on your brakes which causes someone else to rear-end you and ultimately causes damages to them.
So now we have to compare the benefits and I think it's clear that the potential risks to other people's safety will always outweigh the benefits in convenience that people receive from using their cell phone.
We see all the time that the state is willing to limits people behavior if it means that the people will ultimately be safer in the long run.
For instance, we limit the ability of people to buy cigarettes or to buy alcohol at certain times.
We don't let people drive drunk which I think is quite analogous because although there are benefits to the people who want to do those things, the harms to others grossly outweigh them.
To expand on the drunk driving example a little bit better.
Some people can probably drive relatively well with a blood alcohol above point o five percent or whatever the limit is in your area, but many people cannot and the state has to be conservative when it sets these rules and regulations.
The government has to act with the sort of lowest common denominator of human ability because the law ultimately applies to everyone and impacts how everyone makes decisions and how everyone is allowed to behave.
So for all of these reasons, we should not permit the use of cell phones while driving.
Thank you.