We believe that marriage is outdated.
So by this we mean that the traditional institution of marriage is no longer that relevant to our society today, and we think that it would be better if people would move away from it.
So we have three arguments for you.
The first is that women's status in society has greatly changed.
If you look at marriage historically, think about in ancient times all the way up to the present, marriage has ultimately been an institution that serves to oppress women.
We see that in ancient roman times for instance, marriage was seen as a transfer of a woman from being her father's property to her husband's property, and this is the notion of marriage that underlies a lot of christian ideas about marriage, that ultimately a woman is the responsibility of her father until she gets a husband.
Obviously today we don't look at things that way.
We've moved away from that, thankfully.
What we think, therefore, is that marriage is ultimately demeaning to women because it forces them to go through this ritual that effectively says that they are now the property of their husband instead of their father, when actually they were never either.
We think that now that women are independent and are able to work outside the home and have the same roles in society as men, at least in theory, that ultimately marriage is no longer super relevant, because marriage existed as a way for society to answer the question how do we make sure that we know whose children women are having, how do we control women's bodies.
And that was a big concern obviously in roman medieval early modern times for passing on property and titles and things like that, but that's not a concern today because people are allowed to have children with whomever they want.
Our second argument is that society is getting less religious.
So even if you don't buy my kind of basic sociological explanation for marriage, we tell you that the religious explanation for marriage in christian societies is that it's a sacrament before god, and we think that other religions have a similar interpretation, that marriage is something you do with god, or god's sanctioning to people's relationship.
But billions of people around the world now no longer practice any religion, whether that be in communist china where you have over a billion non religious people, or even in the united states or europe where you have tens and tens and tens of millions of people who are atheists or otherwise just don't practice a religion.
We think that at that point, there's no need for society to set up an institution that allows people to sanction their relationship in god's eyes.
That's just not what people are concerned with anymore.
At the point where many people don't even look at marriage in this light, we think that it's clear that marriage has moved so far away from what it was even fifty years ago, that it's no longer even fulfilling the purposes that it used to.
At that point I think it's clear that marriage is outdated, and is not adapting to society's needs.
Our third and final argument is that marriage is incompatible with many modern lifestyles.
So I mentioned earlier that the status of women has changed in society in the last hundred years pretty drastically, but at the same time we've also seen the acceptance of people in same sex relationships, of people choosing to have children as single parents, we think that ultimately, these are all lifestyles that simply didn't exist a hundred years ago because they were unacceptable, but that are growing more and more common.
The other team might say that, " oh, we can have same sex marriage in countries like america now ", but we think that first of all, this is temporary, there's no guarantee that this will remain in existence, and on top of that, that expanding the definition of marriage to the point that it includes these groups that were historically excluded from it indicates that marriage itself is no longer relevant.
You have to make the definition so broad that the original idea of marriage is lost.
We don't think that's any great loss on our side, but we do think it indicates that marriage is outdated.
So at the end of the day we see that because many many people are choosing to live happy fulfilling lives without the institution of marriage, in a way that was quite difficult a hundred or two hundred years ago, that the institution of marriage has become outdated.
Thank you.