We should not adopt libertarianism.
So we are going to argue that the state should be involved in regulating industry, in providing people with social welfare services and generally should have a relatively high level of taxation, similar to what we see in developed countries today.
And also a relatively high level of involvement in facilitating people's rights and success throughout society.
Our first argument is about whom we maximize freedom for.
Will in his last speech says that it's important for us to maximize autonomy.
But I actually think that libertarianism harms almost everyone's autonomy.
Why is this true?
Consider that for instance if you don't have state intervention to ensure that children in poor neighborhoods are able to go to school, then those children grow up without access to education and never have the ability to make decisions about the career or the lifestyle that they want to pursue.
They are just put into this very unfortunate circumstance through no fault of their own and punished for it throughout their life.
So we can see that actually you need to do things like intervene to provide education, to provide food for people who are hungry, to provide protection for people who are at risk, so that ultimately those people may have autonomy.
Now of course there is a trade off here against the wealthy people who pay taxes having slightly less autonomy because they're paying that tax in.
But if you compare the harm of losing a few dollars when you're a billionaire to the benefit of receiving a few dollars in goods when you are someone living in poverty, we think that obviously the marginal value of that money is much greater to these low income people.
But what's more we also live in a society that has guaranteed people certain rights.
For instance the right to freedom of expression or the right to practice their religion.
But when people are going hungry or dying as they used to when america in the gilded age didn't have a social safety net, that people can't really access these rights.
They exist on paper but in practice nothing is being done to facilitate people's ability to have those rights.
So we think that it's important that the state intervene at every level necessary to be sure that people's constitutional rights are actually accessible to them.
And I mentioned the gilded age because I think that that is the alternative here.
In early twentieth century america or britain, there were very few protections for ordinary people.
Basically no social welfare net.
And the result was that the standard of living was a lot more like a third world country today than a global north country.
So we think that it's important at the state intervene in order to maintain a higher quality of life, which ultimately is beneficial for everyone who then lives in a more developed society.
Our second argument is about the long term growth in society.
So, implicit in a lot of wills arguments is the idea that a libertarian government or a libertarian group can compete with a more traditional liberal group in terms of economic activity.
Because in the long term if libertarians can't grow their economy then they're going to be much worse off than people in a liberal society.
And so from a perspective of providing for people's needs libertarianism is worse than liberalism.
We tell you that ultimately because the state can intervene with things like counter cyclical spending to respond to financial crises, because the state is able to manipulate monetary policy in order to ensure that people have access to credit and that people are able to buy things that they need, because the state is able to lend people money at relatively low rates so that they can then go on to take risks and invest and grow the economy further, for all these reasons an economy with more state intervention is going to be better than one with no state intervention.
Now obviously you can make the case that there such a thing as too much state intervention but I think that the comparison here is between a society like most developed societies today with a large but not enormous amount of state intervention versus the libertarian society will proposes, and that ultimately our world is better for everyone.
So therefore we should not adopt libertarianism.
Thank you.