We should not privatize water.
So the other side says they want to treat water like any other commodity, to let companies charge as much as they want for it and provide it on the private market.
We think that water should be provided as a utility, at cost or even below cost, as it is right now in many countries around the world such as the US or britain.
So with this in mind we have three big arguments for you.
The first is that we think that this will reduce access in well served areas.
Recognize that right now, many places around the world such as london or new york city don't have a problem with access to water.
Even the most destitute people who live in these cities have pretty good access to clean, safe drinking water.
This is one of the things that the developed world does really really well right now, is that people aren't dying for lack of good, safe water.
What we see is that if you allow private companies to come in and charge for water, suddenly the provision of water to very low income people in the developed world changes.
Right now, any restaurant or a bar that you go into a new york city for instance has to give you a glass of tap water.
It's a local regulation, and no one really protest it because a glass of tap water costs one tenth of a cent.
But for people who live on the streets, or people who are very in need, the ability to always have access to clean, safe drinking water is a tremendous increase in their quality of life.
But if water prices go up, which they inarguably will if you allow private companies to come in, because they're going to want to make money off of this which means they have to raise prices above the at cost or below cost prices that we see right now, we think that you're going to see a reduced access to free water.
We think that suddenly places will charge for tap water, or they'll only offered bottled water to customers.
We think that similarly, low income people are going to have a more difficult time paying their utility bill.
So they'll either have to reduce the use of water, which the other side is going to try to claim as some green victory, but we don't think that low income people should have to shower less, or not be able to drink as much water as they want in order to help the environment.
We think that the people who really waste a lot of water like agriculture will just pass along this cost to their consumers, which will ultimately hurt low income people even more.
So this is punishing the wrong people.
Because they hurt the ability of those worst off in the developed world to access water, we shouldn't privatize it.
Our second argument is that there are better alternatives to privatizing water.
So in areas like the ones that tim told you about in his speech, like los angeles, where there's a shortage of water and they have to bring it in from other cities and those other cities don't really want to give them water, we still see that there are better alternatives than privatizing the market.
Because privatization doesn't bring in new water.
LA is going to be a desert no matter what you do.
All it does is price people out of the market until eventually there's an equilibrium, but those are real people suffering and we don't think that's acceptable.
Better alternatives would be for the government to invest in private desalination plants et cetera, and then have local governments purchase water from these desalination plants, or purchase water in other ways.
Our last argument is that water is a human right and you shouldn't put a price tag on it.
We see that for instance, people are provided with food at no cost if they have no ability to provide for themselves through things like soup kitchens, or things like the supplemental nutrition program in the united states that just give people food who need it, because we see that this is a right, that in order for people to access their freedom of speech or freedom of religion or other constitutional rights, they need access to food, they need access to safe water, they need access to clean air.
And we provide the people things, all of these, for free.
We think that water should be treated in the same way.
It should be provided at the absolute minimum cost to every consumer because it facilitates every other right that these people are granted by constitutions in developed countries.
And even in the developing world, we think developed countries have an obligation to step in to help people access their basic human rights, and that includes helping them to access water, which means fighting against this privatization.
So for these reasons, we should not privatize water.
Thank you.