We should legalize cannabis.
So, by this we mean that states should tax and regulate marijuana the same way that they tax and regulate things like alcohol or cigarettes in the status quo.
Three arguments for why this is the case.
The first is that the use of cannabis as a drug is a victimless crime.
The reason why this is important is that we think that states should intervene to limit individual freedom only in two cases: the first when there is an asymmetry of information between two people entering into a contract, which I think clearly is not the case here because people are fairly well-informed or could become fairly well-informed about the effects of marijuana usage, or when there are impacts on someone's decisions upon others.
But we see that one individual's choice to smoke marijuana has no direct impact on the health of others.
We think that this is quite distinct from something like even alcohol use in the sense that it doesn't lead people towards antisocial behavior.
So with that in mind, we don't think that there is good grounds for state intervention to ban cannabis.
Our second argument is that we think that prohibition has created a situation which is much worse than the situation it was created to rectify.
Due to the illegal nature of cannabis, many people now purchase it on the black market.
We tell you that the demand for this product is never going to go away, so the best thing to do is to allow people to get it safely.
Right now when people are buying marijuana from drug dealers, they run the risk of getting a product which is laced with other drugs or being cheated or ultimately not knowing how much THC they actually consume when they use their marijuana.
So what we tell you is that it would be much preferable to live in a world in which this product was regulated, similarly to alcohol, so that people knew what they were actually buying and were able to make more educated decisions.
With this in mind, we think it's clear that prohibition has also created a violent situation where many people are transferring large amounts of money illegally, so they feel the need to use violence to protect themselves in their community.
We think that ultimately although the drug cartels are largely focused on harder drugs, they do make lots of money off of bringing marijuana into certain parts of the country and that at the end of the day, it would be preferable to legalize this product so that people would get it from state-approved companies which pay taxes rather than drug dealers who operate off the books or or drug cartels who use this money actively to harm people.
Our final argument for why this should be legal is that we think, in general, that it is preferable to give people more freedom rather than less.
Why is this true?
We tell you that, ultimately, in the world before governments existed, people had total freedom to do whatever they wanted, but that this was an undesirable state of affairs because people want to be able to protect themselves from one another.
We think that with this in mind, governments have an obligation to limit people's freedom as little as possible in order to best recreate that original state of maximum freedom, while offering people the benefits of state protection.
We think that we better fulfill these purposes of government in two ways.
First of all, in terms of bettering offer offering protection.
By removing the need for drug dealers and weakening the drug cartels, obviously people are safer in their communities.
But secondly, in terms of maximizing freedom, we think that individual adults, generally speaking, ought be able to choose to use or not use marijuana.
Even if you think that it's unethical for people to choose to do this, we think it's better to let people make their own moral and ethical decisions rather than to force some sort of public morality upon them.
So because this is a victimless crime, because the harms of prohibition are worse than the harms of the drug, and in order to maximize freedom, we should legalize cannabis.
Thank you.