The internet brings more harm than good.
So we think that necessarily this is a comparative debate.
Obviously there's some good and some bad things that the internet does.
We're going to explain to you why we think that it does more bad things that good.
And in terms of what we mean by the internet, because this term is kind of vague, we think that we're talking about consumer access to highly networked computers.
So back before the internet became very popular you still had networked computers at universities, and in the military and government.
So we're fine with that kind of thing.
What we're talking about are, you know, websites like google, and access to a lot of information at once from consumers rather than the existence of networked computers.
We think businesses and things like that will still use them.
So two big points: the first is about security.
I'd like to point out that the internet has probably done more to make people's information available that anything in history.
I think that this is a two edged sword.
On the one hand people now have access to lots of books and news and other information that they didn't have access to before, but at the same time all of our personal information is out there as well.
We think that, we're gonna talk in just a minute about why this is bad for individuals, but it's also really dangerous for states.
If you look at the twenty sixteen US presidential election, the main way that the russians were able to intervene and influence the election and help donald trump to beat hillary clinton, was to hack for personal data and emails from the democratic national committee.
So because of the internet countries along the around the globe can now interfere with each other selections and subvert democracy.
We think that this is a massive harm, that it'll reduce people's faith in democracy worldwide and ultimately that the high cost to democracy of the easy access to the internet outweighs any of the benefits that the other side will be able to tell you about.
But even on an individual level, even if you think that that's a bit extreme, we tell you that the access to things like banking data is also really harmful.
Very few people probably have their credit card information stolen before the internet, because it would've been so difficult.
You'd have to go to their house and steal their mail, and hope that their bank messed up and didn't send a secure letter and things like that.
But using the internet, lots of people, especially the elderly and people with less education, are taken advantage of and have their banking details stolen and have their lives basically ruined in this way.
And even if insurance or credit card companies step up and don't punish individuals for being the victims of crimes, we still think that it's very likely that they lose a large amount of money on this issue so ultimately we think that's a big harm.
And lastly I want to talk about doxing.
It's much more difficult for people to maintain anonymity because of the internet.
This may sound counterintuitive, you might say oh but people have so much anonymity on the internet, but the relative ease with which someone's identity can be found and widely spread around means that you may have less anonymity.
It may be more difficult to hold an unpopular opinion, or political belief than it used to be, because you run the risk that everyone you know will find out because of the internet, if someone decides to hack you and reveal your information which is called doxing.
So our second point is about the isolation we think the internet creates.
Recognize that because of the internet people feel like they are being social, or feel like there needs are being met when actually they aren't.
Social media is a good example of this.
People think that by talking to someone on facebook or twitter or whatever, that they're getting their social needs met and that they're healthy when really they aren't.
They're very unhappy.
We think that the internet encourages us to be unsatisfied with our own lives and to be more envious of others.
Now people have known for thousands of years that envy is a dangerous thing.
This is why we're told not to covet our neighbors things in the bible, but on top of that we tell you that it encourages people to make unwise decisions when they plan their own lives based on unrealistic expectations fed by the internet.
We also tell you that things like online shopping feed into consumer culture that is ultimately unsustainable.
People are buying things they don't need with money they don't have, and the internet has driven this phenomenon to new heights.
The other team might get up here and say that this is been a problem for a long time, that they used to say this about TV as well, but the ease of access on websites like amazon means that people have access to more goods than ever, but at the same time they're also being told that they need these goods and uniquely effective advertising is convincing them to spend their money, and we think that people are being taken advantage of.
So for all these reasons we think that the internet is dangerous to society and to individuals, and so it brings more harm than good.
Thank you.