Recall elections are beneficial.
So, by this we mean a system in which, let's say you had the governor of a US state, and that person was doing a poor job and citizens wanted to recall them.
They would first have a referendum that would work like a normal referendum in order to determine if they wanted to recall the governor, and then if they voted to recall him, they would replace him using whatever technique they would normally use to fill an empty seat, so maybe, the lieutenant governor would become the new governor, or maybe they would have a gubernatorial election in that state.
So, we think that, broadly speaking, it would be as similar as possible to the current system but adding a way for people to recall governors, members of parliament, and other government officials who are elected in the status quo.
And we would like to see this apply to all elected officials.
So, our first argument is about accountability.
We think that a huge problem right now is that the interests of politicians are not aligned with the interests of their constituents.
It's very easy for a politician to tell lies on the campaign trail, and say that they're going to do x, y and z as soon as they get into office, and then turn around and do something completely different because they're not held very accountable.
If elections are five years apart like they are in britain for members of parliament, or six years apart, like for american senators, most people probably can't remember what the issues were that the person ran on in the first place when they were first elected, so people aren't held accountable, or the political sphere has changed so much that those are no longer relevant and they're not held accountable.
We think that, furthermore politicians are able to get away with a lot of abuse that you couldn't get away with in the private sector.
Things like, british members of parliament taking advantage of their expense accounts for unofficial businesses, or poor job performance even many, mps don't show up for votes, many american senators also don't show up for votes, many governors don't bother to try to pass laws, and ultimately they don't do the things that they're supposed to do.
You would get fired from a regular job if you didn't do what you were meant to do.
So we think that there should be a similar mechanism to be sure the politicians actually care, and that in this way you align their interest to those of voters because the only way for them to get job security is to do what's good for the voters or what voters want from them so now they have the same interests.
Our second argument is about political engagement.
We think that right now, there's not a lot of reason to stay informed for most people in non-election years.
So if your country has parliamentary elections every five years, people probably follow the news much more closely in an election year and then, become less and less invested in the off years.
But if you know that there's a potential that you can punish politicians for their wrong doings, we think you have more of an incentive to stay informed, and more of a reason to actually care about what's going on day to day even if a lot of it seems kind of abstract from your everyday life.
We think also that people will feel more control over the political process and that this is a good thing.
If people feel, in other words, like they matter as a citizen and like they have the ability to change things, then they're more likely to have faith in the government, and more likely to want to participate in things like off year elections and referenda.
We tell you that we do this by having recall elections because it's very obvious how you affect the government if you're able to take people out of government for doing a poor job.
A lot of the things that people are asked to do to participate in government are sort of abstract.
You vote to fund something or you vote to allow someone to do something in parliament, but you don't have a lot of direct control over the people who represent you.
We give you that kind of direct control and we think that this will make people feel more invested in their government.
Lastly, we think that you get a better politician citizen dialogue, so there's not a ton of reason why you're not campaigning for reelection for a politician to spend much time with their constituents, hearing about their concerns, and representing their interests.
We think that you're a lot more likely to try to have a good relationship with your constituents and to spend a lot of time there rather than in the capital if you know that they can recall you if they're unhappy with the job that you're doing.
So we think that there actually is more accountability for this reason also, and that this leads to more engagement between these elite politicians and everyday ordinary people.
Who would be voting in a recall election.
So we think recall elections are beneficial because they lead to more accountability and better political engagement.
Thank you.