We should ban trans fat usage in food.
So trans fats are a particular type of fat which has been isolated by chemists.
We can identify it really well, and it's included in lots of popular foods like oreos, cupcakes, etcetera.
So this is something that has been banned by some legislatures around the world, places like new york city, places like denmark because it's uniquely, even more so than some other types of fats, very unhealthy.
So we're saying get rid of it in food entirely.
We're going to set this in liberal countries which have enough money to actually, you know, regulate food well through things like the FDA in america or similar regulatory bodies in europe.
So, two arguments.
The first is about why we think it is just for the state to intervene in order to prevent people from being able to buy foods with trans fats.
Two standards for when we think the state should intervene to limit personal freedom.
The first is when there is an a limited access of information for ordinary people.
So say that your joe america, just some guy at the grocery store buying food.
You probably don't have a lot of information about how to know if a food contains trans fats, what trans fats actually do, how they interact with the rest of your diet, how much of them is actually safe to consume.
You have basically no way of informing yourself about this issue, whereas on the other hand, the companies selling these trans fats you know hostess, little debbie, whoever it may be, they have all these chemists, they have scientists, they have lawyers.
They know exactly how much trans fats are safe to consume, what they do to your body, how they affect your diet.
What does this mean?
It's very easy for the company who has access to a ton of information to manipulate you as an individual consumer so that you make it unhealthy choice that puts dollars in their wallet.
They want you to buy as much of their product as possible, which means that because these trans fats are very tasty, they want you to put as many or they want to put as many of them as they can into the foods so that you'll buy it.
Ultimately, you have no way to protect yourself from this abuse because you don't even know that it's going on.
We think the government needs to intervene because government scientists, government lawyers, other people working for the state, had access to this information and work on your behalf.
We think that they need to step in and really act on your behalf by limiting your access to these trans fats.
The second time when we see that the government should intervene is when there is a harm to a third party.
We think where this really comes up is in the form of children that you know, obviously children can't make a decision about what foods their parents feed them.
If you're a kid, you eat what your mom buys you.
But ultimately, these trans fats have tremendous effects on the long term health of children.
They put them at greater risk of obesity and heart disease later in life.
We think that the state needs to intervene to protect children in particular from these trans fats because their parents aren't able to protect them, so there's a harm being made by the parent's decision onto someone else through no fault of their own.
We think that that's a clear instance when government should intervene.
This is the same reasoning behind why we banned smoking, which is that secondhand smoke hurts people in the same way these trans fats are also hurting people.
And the last time when we think that the government ought intervene is when there's a compelling state interest.
What we mean by that?
So the state, in most countries, is paying for healthcare, whether that be medicaid in the US, or national health in britain, or other insurance plans around the world.
So we see that the government is spending more money if people are less healthy.
At that point, the state has a clear interest in maximizing individual health in order to limit the amount of money that it has to spend on healthcare.
If we free up money that would be spent on people who become obese because of trans fats, then we have more money to spend on things like researching a cure for diabetes, or treating people with cancer, etcetera.
So I think it's clear that the state has an obligation to intervene to ban the use of trans fats in these foods.
If it did so, it would improve public health, it would protect individuals who are being taken advantage of, it would protect the vulnerable such as children, and ultimately that it would lower healthcare costs for society.
Thank you.