We should not privatize water supplies.
So right now in many parts of the world water is provided by public utility companies and that's the model that we're going to advocate for, to have nonprofit public utility companies provide access to water for people.
So our first argument is that water should be provided by a state owned utility company because it is a natural monopoly.
What we mean by this is that the barrier to entry for providing people with water is extremely high.
You have to build an enormous amount of infrastructure which means that even if you opened this up to competition, at best, only a tiny amount of companies would be able to compete.
You're not going to see a market in which there's seventeen different companies offering you a water plan because the infrastructure cost of laying out pipes to every person's house and running reservoirs and all these other things is so great that any area can probably only support one water company.
So at that point this is going to be a monopoly and the question is whether or not we want it to be a private monopoly or a government run monopoly.
But I think that the most compelling argument for privatizing state owned industries is that competition would make them do a better job.
For instance, when the british government sold off the railroads the idea was that if they competed then they would have to offer a better quality of service and things like that.
But there's no potential for competition here because of the natural monopoly so we're not going to actually see the benefits of privatization.
So what is the comparative actually look like in that case?
We think that what you have to choose between is a government monopoly that's run not for profit and a private monopoly that is run for profit.
Because a private company will always have a duty to make money for its shareholders, we tell you that ultimately they will always charge more to consumers then the state would for the same quality of service.
They're required to because they have to produce money for their shareholders whereas a public company doesn't have shareholders to produce that value for.
So we think that ultimately this will lead to higher costs for consumers with no additional benefits.
Therefore we should not privatize the water supply.
But our second argument is that this would lead to a limitation in access.
Will is correct in the last speech to say that on either side of this debate people have to pay for water.
Where I live, and I imagine for most people, you pay a public utility bill every month based on how much water you use or you pay your landlord a fixed amount every month for water.
But we think that one thing that the state does very well is provide water equally to everyone.
You could live in rural west virginia and it still likely that you would be able to get access to public water.
Some people do use well water in the united states but ultimately anyone who lives in any municipality has access to water.
We tell you that what's likely to happen if you privatize this is that people for whom it is not profitable to deliver water will not receive water.
And I'll I'll give you an example for comparison.
Broadband internet is something that is really beneficial for people to access information and some people even think that this should be considered a right on the order of electricity.
But if you live on the side of a mountain then it's not profitable to run broadband internet cables under the ground to get to you, so you'll never received it.
In the same way if you live far from everyone else and it's not profitable to run water out to you, then you're never going to receive it from a private company whereas the state would provide it.
Even if that means that the state is spending money in a way that's not optimally efficient we think that people have a right to be able to access water if they live in a municipality.
So we're fine with making people pay for it, but we think that people need to have the state invest to provide that infrastructure even when it's not, strictly speaking, profitable.
The other side might say, oh, just get those people well water instead, but I'm not aware of any cases when the state provides people with well water when they can't get access to municipal water so I don't think that's a satisfactory situation or solution.
Therefore we should not privatize water supplies.
Thank you.