We should legalize prostitution.
So, our side of the house we're saying that in countries where prostitution is illegal right now, such as the united states, it should be decriminalized.
We're fine with regulating it.
In the netherlands for instance prostitution is legal but brothels are very closely regulated by the state and there's no pimps.
We think that that would be a particularly good model for countries to follow.
Three big arguments for why we should legalize prostitution: the first is about personal freedom.
We think that in general government should defer to allowing people to do what they want.
Realize that in the state of nature, if there were no government, then people would be perfectly free to go into prostitution or any other line of work.
We think that in general government should strive to allow people to do what they will, particularly given that there are no real harms to others from this behavior.
Let's consider a few examples of when the state should intervene to limit personal freedom.
The first would be if there was a lack of information.
But we think that most people full well understand what it means to be a prostitute, particularly in a well regulated environment.
On top of that we think that the state could provide people with information rather than simply ban the activity, and that that would be less restrictive of personal freedom.
Giving out pamphlets, things like that, making people read and sign an agreement before becoming a prostitute.
We think that there are lots of ways that we can ensure that people weren't misled or taken advantage of.
And since, under the best sorts of models, people would be working for themselves, they would be free to stop being a prostitute if they decided that they didn't like it.
It's not like we're locking them in for a ten year contract.
The other time when we would want to limit personal freedom is when there are harms to third parties but we think that prostitution is fundamentally a victimless crime.
Recognize that, you know, that john isn't hurting anybody they're entering into a business agreement freely since there's no pimps on our model, and that the prostitute obviously isn't being harmed by this.
They can take precautions to avoid the spread of STD's, we could require that people wear condoms, things like that.
So we see that there's no good reason for the state to intervene here.
We think that the reason why prostitution is illegal right now is because some people think that it's unethical.
But the business of government is not to enforce ethics on others, it's to protect people from one another and given that no one is being harmed by prostitution, even if it means that some people think you won't go to heaven, we don't think that it should be the government's business to step in and prevent people from doing something for that reason alone.
With that in mind, our second main argument is that we think that the black market is worse than regulated legalization.
Because realize that as long as there's a demand for prostitutes, there's always going to be prostitution.
Even if it's illegal.
So what does it look like?
First of all, if prostitution is illegal, then it means that if somebody harms a prostitute then the prostitutes can't go to the police.
For instance if someone were to sexually assault a prostitute, they wouldn't feel comfortable going to the police even though they obviously need help, because they would be afraid of being arrested or of putting their business in jeopardy as a result of cooperating with the police.
So we think that you would see lower rates of sexual assault if you were to legalize prostitution.
But on top of that, organized crime often steps in to set up prostitution, given that it's illegal, because they're the ones who can move people from where there's a supply of people willing to be prostitutes, or even people who are unwilling whom they could human traffic and force to become prostitutes, to places where there is demand.
So we think that these organized crimes are criminals are responsible for a lot of human trafficking and pressuring people into becoming prostitutes.
We think that if you legalize the industry, that legitimate businesses would replace organized criminals, there would be less human trafficking because you could monitor the industry better and prevent it from happening.
So ultimately these would be great benefits to society.
So, in order to maximize personal freedom and to stop the black market we should legalize prostitution thank you.