Internet censorship brings more good than harm.
So in this debate we acknowledge that there are good and bad things about internet censorship.
We think that our burden is to tell you why the good outweighs the harm, not that there are no harms, and that the inverse is true for the other side.
Three arguments for you.
The first is that internet censorship is a powerful tool to maintain government authority.
We tell you that many countries around the world have governments which would face extreme opposition if people had access to information available from other countries media.
We tell you that countries like russia and iran, for instance, have people who have limited access to the internet who may not fully understand the implications of their country's actions abroad, or things that their country is done on their behalf.
The other team might tell you that it's good if people have this information so that they can remove harmful governments, but we tell you that no good is likely to come of people trying to overthrow their governments or rise up against a dictator because of information that they see online.
We tell you that it's very likely, first of all, that these uprisings will fail like many of the arab spring uprisings, or that even if they succeed that ultimately the new governments changes that they put into place will be worse than what preceded because of the harms incurred during the transitional period.
Again I would point to the arab spring.
We see that back in two thousand eleven people were very hopeful about the outcomes of the arab spring but that ultimately what ended up happening was not very much positive change for people and we see that it probably would have been better in most cases if these governments had remained in place without the conflicts that emerged.
We think that if internet censorship is a tool to avoid future arab spring-esk conflicts that we would be okay with that on our side of the debate.
Our second argument is about protecting people from dangerous information.
So the distinction I want to make is that while the last argument is about political information, this argument is about pragmatic information.
We think that governments are well within their rights to censor access to things like information on how to build a bomb, or steal a car, or otherwise put society at risk.
We tell you that a lot of trouble making behavior is limited by people's access to information.
That once upon a time only people who are gang members or part of organized crime would have been able to learn how to steal a car, or how to build a bomb, things like that, but that today because of the internet things like the anarchist cookbook had been widely distributed and everyone in free countries has access to this information.
We think that ultimately it would be preferable to live in a world where fewer people knew how to partake in antisocial behaviors or potentially violent behaviors and that because the internet facilitates those things some censorship is in order to prevent access to them.
So we would be broadly in favor of censorship of things like the anarchist cookbook or similar antisocial behavior promoting materials.
Our last argument is about preventing cultural conflict.
Recognize that things like the consumption of internet pornography have created large divides in many countries around the world, that we see that families have put a lot of pressure on people to not consume this material and that ultimately many people from conservative backgrounds want to ban it entirely.
We think that in countries where many people are in favor of banning pornography or limiting access to it that ultimately it would be, first of all, correct for governments to do so because it reflects democratic will and second of all, because if a certain culture is very conservative, we think that it's not beneficial to have material that will create cultural descent.
Ultimately we think that this will just lead to infighting and divisions within a country which might otherwise be more unified and thus have less violence and other problems.
So for these reasons, ultimately, we think that internet censorship brings more good than harm.
We think that the benefits to state stability will outweigh the limitations to personal freedom and we think that limiting access to troublesome information will also be a on balance good thing.
Thank you.