Affirmative action brings more good than harm.
So in this debate we're going to say that obviously there are some benefits and some drawbacks to affirmative action, our burden is just to show you that the benefits outweigh those drawbacks.
So three big arguments for you about why affirmative action brings more good than harm: the first is about how affirmative action promotes equality.
Recognize that equality cannot only be equality of opportunity, it must also include equality of outcome.
Why is this true?
Society can tell itself that it has equality of opportunity but this seems tremendously difficult to measure.
We think that in a society where the equality of outcome is nonexistent, that clearly the equality of opportunity is only an illusion.
So, for instance, it's true that in the united states right now, in theory, african americans have an equal opportunity as white americans to go to schools like harvard and yale but we see that in practice, when african americans makeup thirteen percent of the population and two or three percent of elite schools that something has gone awry.
We think that in order to have true equality, where you actually see people able to succeed regardless of their race, creed, sex etcetera, you need to see people actually succeeding regardless of their race creed sex etcetera.
And that means that you need equality of outcome, which it seems that the only way to get this is through affirmative action because it's not happening right now in the status quo, due to bias or due to past entrenched failures in society.
Our second argument is about creating leaders from minority communities.
Recognize that if you want to empower groups that have been historically disempowered, be that women, be that a certain religious or ethnic group, you need to create leaders who can express the needs of those communities on a national scale without relying on a more dominant group like men or white people to speak on their behalf.
You need to give disempowered people a voice and the only way to do that is to create leaders for them.
But these leaders necessarily need education and they need opportunities to get into positions where people will hear their voice.
So that means that not only do they need to go to elite universities where they receive the kind of education that the leaders of other groups receive, so go into oxford or university of toronto or whatever the best school in your country is, but they also need to have the same kind of work opportunities and opportunities in government that other people have.
If there are no african americans in congress than there are no congressional leaders who care a lot about what african americans need and who understand their experience for instance.
So the affirmative action must extend beyond merely education into the workplace as well if you ever want to see groups able to empower themselves.
And our last argument is about the future of these groups.
So imagine you think affirmative action is a really bad thing and you don't want to see it in your country.
You should still support affirmative action in the short to medium term because it will remove the need for itself in the long term.
What do I mean?
If you create a norm of having congress be proportionate with the american public in terms of how many blacks or hispanics or women are in the congress, then we think it's very likely that people will get used to that and parties will get used to running candidates from these groups and in fifty years you won't need quotas or whatever system of affirmative action you use anymore because the system will be self sustaining.
In other words the affirmative action process will remove the need for itself.
If you create a society where minority groups or disempowered groups are able to advocate on their own behalf, we think that in the future they won't need majority groups to give them things like affirmative action to succeed, they'll be able to do it on their own.
So at the end of the day we see that affirmative action brings benefits to equality that it creates good leaders from minority groups and that it will remove the need for itself so it clearly brings more good than harm.
Thank you.