All women short lists bring more good than harm.
The problem that we want to address in this debate is that women are grossly underrepresented in parliaments around the world.
We think that the best way to solve this is with some sort of affirmative action that would increase the number of women elected to parliament, even if voters or parties are not willing to do this on their own.
And when we say bring more good than harm we think that there are certainly benefits and negatives to this policy but that the good ultimately outweighs the bad.
So what we're going to advocate for is a policy in which parties such as the the tories and labour in britain are required to list a certain number of women on their list and then when they receive votes, that they would be required to put a certain number of women into office.
So, two main arguments: the first is that we think that this would lead to more female leaders throughout society.
Why is this true?
We think that it is the case that business and academia and other institutions are likely to implement similar policies if they're implemented at this government level.
We think it's likely, in other words, that this affirmative action will trickle down.
Why is this important?
We think that women are systematically excluded from positions of power, not only in government but throughout society.
We see that in government, political parties tend to run token female candidates at any given time rather than a significant number of them in order to appear progressive rather than actually walk the walk as it were.
And we think that this only gets worse as you move further down in society.
Governments are subject to a certain amount of scrutiny in a way that private business oftentimes is not.
So we think that private business in particular is likely to discriminate against women and not to offer them very many opportunities.
What we do, on our side of the house, is first of all create a government which is full of women who will then eventually leave government and go on to fill positions throughout society.
But on top of that we tell you that these women are likely to appoint female officials to other positions and that it's likely that those officials will later hire other women etcetera and that this will trickle down through all layers of government and eventually when some of those people go to work in private business they will take these policies with them.
We think that the good of this greatly outweighs the harm of having perhaps women who might not always have been appointed if they were men, because at the end of the day if more women are being put into office then there will be better training available for women and more opportunities for them in education and in the workplace which will eventually lead us to a point where we don't need this affirmative action anymore.
Our second argument is that we think that governments that were close to fifty percent women would have better policies.
We think that old men are uniquely ill suited to govern when it comes to things like women's health or the needs of families.
We think that it's important that you have a broad swath of society represented in parliament to that right now the simply isn't the case.
If this were implemented, we think that for instance you might have more common sense resolutions that would improve health for women, you might see better sex education provided for young people, and you'd probably see more opportunities for families in need and things like that.
We could certainly see that a country like rwanda, which has a uniquely high proportion of women in parliament, has better policies then it's male dominated neighbors in terms of female reproductive health.
Things like banning genital mutilation etcetera have all been done at a much greater rate in rwanda then by their neighbors.
We also think that in terms of debate, that a variety of perspectives is necessary to reach the best outcome and when women's perspectives are absent from parliament you're likely to have inferior quality of debate.
If the best ideas emerge only from competition then the competition is stunted and so was the best idea that can emerge from it when women are excluded.
So for these reasons we think that all women shortlist bring more good than harm.
Thank you.