International recognition for abkhazia and south ossetia is justified.
So, in this debate, I want to be very clear: we're talking about what is principally justified, and not the best material outcomes.
I think that independence would be good for that as well, but it's not the primary focus of our debate today.
Two arguments: the first is that, the existing borders of georgia are unfair.
Recognize that, these are regions that want to secede from georgia, and have wanted to do so since nineteen ninety one, when the soviet union broke up.
When the boundaries of georgia, abkhazia, and south ossetia were drawn, back in the twentieth century, they were all part of one country, the soviet union.
So we see that, at that time it wasn't a tremendously important, whether these regions we're part of russia, or georgia, because they were all under the same government anyway.
What does this mean?
So, when the soviet union broke up, which I'd like to point out nobody voted on that, when the soviet union broke up, it's not like they had a vote in every single republic.
Instead, it was leaders of those republics, who were appointed under communism, not democratically, making the decision on people's behalf.
So, georgia leaves the soviet union.
It takes abkhazia and south ossetia with it.
The people in those regions never consented to being part of a sovereign georgia.
They, for decades, have been living under soviet rule, many of the people who live there are ethnically russian, and probably would have preferred to remain part of russia when the country broke up, rather than becoming part of georgia, where they're now an ethnic minority.
We don't think that, boundaries, that are drawn without the consent of people that live there, should be treated as legitimate.
Now, the other team could get up and say: look, very few boundaries are drawn with the consent of the people who live there.
Look at catalonia, wants to leave spain because those boundaries are illegitimate.
But, I think there's a big difference between boundaries that had been in place for hundreds of years, like in catalonia and spain, versus boundaries that have been in place for what?
Twenty five years at this point?
Ultimately we see that, this is a problem that would be very easy to solve, as opposed to pulling apart countries that have existed for hundreds of years.
The other point, that I'd like to make under this, is that look, if georgia gets to illegally secede from the soviet union, there was no legal precedent for that to happen, why can't abkhazia and south ossetia not do the same thing for georgia?
If the international community is willing to support countries like georgia, when they leave their country illegitimately, with no legal backing, then I think that we need to be consistent, and allow regions within that country to have the same degree of freedom.
The other side might get up here, and tell you: this sets a dangerous precedent for regions to leave a country that they don't like being part of.
But, given that the formation of georgia was an unconstitutional act, in and of itself, under soviet law, we think that we should look at that standard, rather than a standard for countries that were formed more legitimately.
At the end of the day, we think it would be just to recognize these countries, because it would be applying the same standard to them as to georgia.
We think that justice shouldn't be arbitrary, that we should hold everyone to the same standard, and in this instance, in georgia, that means letting these region secede of their own free will.
And our second argument is that, we think it would be also justified, because it would maximize freedom for people living in that region.
Recognize that, the reason why the people living in abkhazia and south ossetia want to leave georgia, is that they're ethnic minority who is not being treated very well by the government.
These people's freedom is being limited, and I think that it would be better if they were independent, or if they were part of russia.
We think, first, that individuals know what is in their own best interests, better than anyone else, that they can make a reasonable decision as adults living in those regions to say: we're not being treated well in georgia, we want to try something else instead.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is that, we think we should always preference maximizing individual freedom.
Governments, by their very nature, limit individual's ability to make decisions for themselves.
Were okay with that, because they reduce violence.
But, at the point where a state isn't reducing violence, as we see in georgia, ultimately we don't think that, we should force people to remain part of that state.
So, we think that you need to apply the same standards to everyone, and that we should preference freedom over anything else.
So, therefore international recognition for abkhazia and south ossetia is justified, thank you.