We should not legalize the use of cannabis.
So before I get into my three arguments I'd just like to point out that much of what danny said in his speech is absurd.
Obviously we can't release people who were put in jail for breaking laws regarding the distribution of marijuana if those people were breaking the law at the time they committed the crime.
This sort of ex post facto decision that people actually were acting in an acceptable fashion is completely contrary to the idea that the law should be applied at the time at which a crime was committed as opposed to a later date.
So with that out of the way three arguments for our side.
The first is about democratic will in opposition.
We see that in many parts of the world the public is opposed to legalizing marijuana.
We think that although ballot initiatives in some US states have allowed those states to legalize marijuana, there is still huge public debate and in many areas it is not popular, including in the majority of the united states.
Because the legitimacy of the government rests on the will of the people and because the state exists to facilitate the people coming to terms and laws that reflect public values, we think therefore that marijuana ought not be made legal.
And a good comparison here would be that the US and also canada banned alcohol in the early twentieth century because it was unpopular with the citizenry.
They had a vote and people voted to prohibit the sale of alcohol and this was later overturned by a vote as well.
But we think that what's important here is that there is a precedent not to sell recreational drugs when the public believes that they are unethical or ought not be used and to sell them when the public supports them.
So if in the future the american public or the public in other countries are in favor of legalizing cannabis, we're okay with that.
But since they are not in the status quo we think that it ought remain illegal.
Our second argument is about a difficulty in measuring marijuana use.
So if you're driving under the influence and you get pulled over by the police, they can give you a breathalyzer test and see immediately if you've been drinking too much or not and most areas around the world have some limit on your blood alcohol content.
There is currently, and to me it seems unlikely that there will be any time soon, no similar technology to gauge recent use of cannabis.
What this means is that if people are driving high it's going to be very difficult to actually prove that they were or were not doing so.
So we think there's two outcomes, one would be that people would get away with this, which is very dangerous behavior and ultimately quite anti-social, or that the police will resort to profiling and making decisions that are based on prejudice about whether or not they think someone has been using marijuana.
For instance, if someone looks like maybe a counterculture person or if they're of a different race, then the police might profile against them.
We think that at the point where there's no way to effectively police the use of marijuana, the safest thing to do is to prohibit it entirely until such a possibility arises.
So if in the future there's some miracle breathalyzer for marijuana then we're okay with legalizing it, but until that time it ought remain criminalized.
Our third and final argument is that most countries around the world, perhaps all, are signatories of international agreements which prohibit the creation and distribution of certain illegal drugs and that marijuana is one of them.
So basically countries around the world like the US and EU countries have agreed that they won't legalize marijuana, that they will criminalize its use, that they'll prevent its production and distribution.
If the united states or britain or some other country decides that they're going to opt out of this, ultimately they're acting in bad faith with regard to these international agreements.
Now I know the other team is going to say, oh, but the dutch allow marijuana use and nobody's taking them to the international courts.
But I think the point is that countries should act in good faith even if the netherlands may not be in this one particular instance.
So for all these reasons we should not legalize cannabis.
Thank you.