We should not abolish three strikes laws.
I'd like to just point out, before I get into my two points, that many of rachel's arguments rely on assertions.
There's no evidence to prove that they don't reduce violent crime.
Violent crime has gone down in california since the introduction of three strikes laws pretty significantly.
Similarly, there's no evidence that they don't play a factor in people's decision-making.
It seems intuitive to me that some people choose not to commit crimes because they might go to jail longer.
If someone knows that they're on thin ice because they already have two convictions and they don't want that third one, then they're much more likely to avoid situations in which they might commit a violent crime.
So, ultimately, even if there are harms to these policies, I don't think that we can just categorically deny that they ever prevent crime.
Obviously, they do.
With that in mind, our first argument is about why these rules discourage crime.
Deterrence is an important factor of any criminal justice system.
It's not enough to just say, " oh, we can rehabilitate people once they're in the system, " because for all of the same reasons rachel described people committing crimes, it's very difficult to rehabilitate.
People who are part of organized crime, people who live in very poor areas, aren't just going to suddenly become outstanding model citizens at the age of twenty nine.
Ultimately, the damage is probably already done to someone as a productive citizen by the time they're in their late twenties.
We think that that's the age when most of these people are being committed, but what we can appeal to is people's own self-interest.
Even those who have grown up not caring about the harms that they do to others presumably still care about themselves or they wouldn't be seeking out money and personal benefit by committing crimes.
Therefore, we can change their decision-making by forcing them to think, " huh, if I get one more conviction, I'm going to go away for life. "
Most people don't want that.
Therefore, they will probably get away from drugs, get away from violence.
Many people go through their young adulthood committing crimes and involved in gangs and then later get involved in legitimate business after getting a conviction.
We think that, obviously, we want to help people to do so but that a big part of their decision-making might be that they can't keep getting arrested because they know that they'll go away forever.
So we think that this is absolutely effective and that it really does discourage crime and that the other side needs to do a lot more work to prove that it doesn't.
Similarly, my next argument is about another reason why we shouldn't ban the policy.
We think that the policy is, broadly speaking, popular in california and any other jurisdiction that might use it I'm not aware of.
But in california, this is very popular.
How do we make laws?
Ultimately, the law reflects a public conception of what ought be permissible and what ought not.
People are very opposed to violent crime for obvious reasons, so there are firm laws in place that limit violent crime.
Ultimately, if most people in a democracy think that there ought be a certain punishment for a crime, then there should be.
No elite judge is in a better position to determine what is or is not moral than any other citizen.
All of our moral intuitions averaged together are what the law ought reflect.
Now, therefore, in a place like california, where there is lots of support for three strikes laws, we ought continue them.
Now you might say: well, what if it's a white majority, who aren't really affected by three strikes laws, who support it because it mostly affects people of color?
And to that I would answer that even if that is the case, you need to change the minds of those people such that they no longer support it, not just overturn the law because we don't like it as liberal elites.
If you do so, there will certainly be less trust in the law, because people will think that it is not as harsh on crime as it ought to be.
Moreover, we think that people will be more likely to take matters into their own hands if they think that the criminal justice system isn't doing enough to punish wrongdoers.
So there are many implications to banning this that would actually bad for the people that we want to help.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish three strikes laws.
Thank you.