We should not adopt vegetarianism.
So I think that what we're arguing for in this debate is not that people who are currently vegetarian need to change their ways and customs, it's that there is no onus on people who eat meat in the status quo to become full vegetarians, particularly given what the other side said about veganism, we think that there is certainly no obligation for non-vegans to become vegan.
Three main arguments for our side in this debate.
The first is that this is an unfair burden on certain cultural groups.
Recognize that there are many societies around the world in which consumption of meat or use of animal products plays an important part in their culture.
We think that on the other side of the house, not only would people have to give up eating meat, but also something like the shofar, a ram's horn that is used on a certain jewish holiday, would no longer be permissible, because it would be impossible to ever harvest a new horn for people to use.
So we think that this would prevent the practice of certain important cultural and religious customs.
This would obviously have a tremendously negative impact on those cultures.
It would damage the ability of people to self-actualize for the practice of their religion, and likely lead to a certain amount of anxiety about the future of their community, and fear of a loss of cultural identity.
But on top of that, we think that it's problematic that this narrative that everyone should become a vegetarian comes from a tremendous place of privilege.
It's probably true that people living in the global north could reduce their carbon footprint by consuming fewer animal products.
But we think that people in the global south who consume meat, albeit at a lower rate right now, we don't think that these people deserve to have this onus put on them to adopt vegetarianism.
We think that in particular, when the consumption of animal products can be an easy way to access certain nutritional facts which, although they may in theory be possible to gain from plant based nutrition, it has to be accessible to you in your local market and it often isn't going to be for some people.
But on top of that, we tell you that the use of animal based products is often essential to local economies.
For instance, the use of beast of burden presumably wouldn't be acceptable on the other side, if you accept their principle that animals deserve equal rights with humans.
How can we expect an ox to pull a plow if it would be illegal to make a human do the same thing.
This is just absurd and it would undermine many communities.
The second argument is that animals are amoral.
Basically what we mean by this is that animals do not deserve moral consideration the way people do.
We think that the reason why human beings deserve moral consideration is that they have the ability to make moral decisions.
What does this mean?
Every human being has the opportunity to decide to be good or evil, to do the right thing or the wrong thing, whereas animals have no such conception of the world around them.
The other team might say , but some humans don't make these decisions, such as young children or the very disabled.
But we tell you that in the case of young children, they have the potential to eventually develop into moral actors, so they deserve consideration, and that in the event of the severely disabled, it's certainly possible that in the future we could cure their illness or injury and allow them to become moral actors, and this potentiality is why we give them moral worth.
Animals deserve no such consideration because they cannot make moral decisions.
Our last argument is that we think that you gain a false sense of achievement from adopting vegetarianism.
We see that people are likely to think that they have solved certain problems, such as climate change, etcetera, if they adopt radical lifestyle choices like vegetarianism.
But in fact, the driving causes of climate change are not related to human consumption of meat, but rather to industrial processes that will continue on either side of the house.
But aside from that, we think that people are likely to fail to think about other ways that they behave immorally in their day to day lives.
If people think that they are behaving in an extra moral fashion due to their vegetarianism, then they might be less willing to do things like go out of their way to help the homeless or the elderly or the needy in their community, because they already think that they're doing enough.
We would rather have people focus on all of those groups, which we think are more deserving than animals of our consideration.
So for these three reasons, we should not adopt vegetarianism.
Thank you.