Same sex marriage brings more good than harm.
So, very straightforward debate: we think that allowing men to marry other men, women to marry other women, ultimately does enough benefit to society that the benefits outweigh any drawbacks that this might have for society.
So with that in mind we have three main arguments for you today: the first is about maximizing personal freedom.
We think, first of all, that maximizing personal freedom is good in and of itself.
That people who lived in you know an imaginary state of nature, where there was no government, would have much more freedom than they do even in the most liberal of liberal democracies.
We see that states necessarily remove some people's freedom, but that ultimately everyone wants to have the most ability to make decisions for themselves.
So it's a balancing act between the need of society to have stability and individuals desire for freedom.
Whenever possible though we ought defer to this freedom because in order for people to self actualize, to live happy successful lives, they need to be able to make decisions about themselves.
Individuals know their own best interest better than anyone else knows what is good for them.
We think that at that point, it's clear that same sex marriage brings more good than harm because it provides a tremendous amount of personal freedom for individuals in society.
We see that, you know, a certain percentage of the population is gay and that those people one, deserve equal freedom to straight people - just because they happen to prefer a different sex doesn't mean that they should have less personal freedom - but on top of that we also see that it maximizes their ability to self actualize by opening up more options.
Even if many people choose not to marry, that is still a choice in itself that we think should be left up to individuals rather than made for them by the voting public.
So because it maximizes personal freedom, I think it's clear that this does more good than harm.
Our second argument is about the benefits to social stability.
We see that when people get married, their behavior tends to change.
People who get married are more likely to have children, and you might say: " oh well gay couples to have children ", but in many countries they're allowed to adopt and many people would probably choose to have surrogate children, things like that.
They're more likely to have children, they're more likely to purchase homes, they're more likely to be willing to establish themselves in a given community and not move around frequently.
And all of these are good things for society.
You want people to buy homes, you want people to have children, because in the long term that's what's going to perpetuate communities, that's what's going to make your country strong thirty years down the line.
So at the end of the day we see that the benefits to social stability greatly outweigh the benefits this might have, or the harms this might have, rather, for other people, and we think it really that's just that some people are uncomfortable with the idea of homosexuality.
But that leads nicely into our third and final argument which is that this normalizes homosexuality.
So, same sex attraction has been part of human culture forever effectively.
You see it in nature, it's a natural part of life.
Certainly if you look back to ancient times, you know the ancient greeks were much more likely to be tolerant of this than many modern countries are.
We think that when you allow people to marry in a same sex way, that this makes them more sympathetic to people who are homophobic in the status quo.
Because there's an idea in many countries, certainly in america, that gay people you know sleep around, that they live this very extravagant very gay lives, and I think that that doesn't reflect the experiences of most gay people, certainly that I know, most gay people, all gay people do the same things as anyone else.
They just happen to be gay.
But in order to get people to recognize this, you need to allow homosexual people to follow the same course of life that straight people follow, so that they're more relatable to their straight peers, and we think that marriage is a really good way to do that.
So for these reasons, same sex marriage brings more good than harm.
Thank you.