We should not criminalize suicide.
So, we are going to argue that there should be no criminal penalties associated with committing suicide.
Of course, as will already pointed out to you, these would be a sort of after the fact punishment for someone who can't be reached by the arm of the law, but we still think that those punishments should not exist on the books.
Our first argument is that we shouldn't criminalize suicide, because it's a health problem not a criminal one.
What does it mean for something to be criminalized?
It means that we see that this is something which is detrimental to society in such a way that the state needs to intervene to prevent it.
But not everything that is detrimental to society is criminal, so there must be something else going on here.
We think that, most commonly, that something called mens rea, a guilty mind, the intention to do something which is antisocial.
Why is mens rea different from what drives people to suicide?
So if I want to steal my neighbor's car, then I have mens rea.
I want his car because it's nicer than mine, and I think that I would look very nice driving it.
If I decide that I want to commit suicide, then I have a mental illness driving me or some deep feeling of despair driving me, not lust for money or cars or other things like that.
So these are qualitatively different.
So the difference between suicide and a crime is one is desiring another person's property or to harm another person whereas the other is some deeply troubled mental state on the self.
So we think that these shouldn't be treated similarly by society.
We think that while absolutely it should be a crime to steal your neighbor's property, when someone has that kind of suicidal ideation, what they need is help from a doctor not a judge, and at the end of the day we think that therefore you're not filling the purpose of the criminal justice system, because you're not dissuading anyone from committing a crime or punishing a mens rea.
And moreover, you're not fulfilling the duty to help these people who have suicidal ideation because the criminal justice system can't get them the help that they need.
Our second argument is about the social stigma on families and why this is unfair to them.
Will already told you that people who commit suicide aren't actually going to pay the cost of some sort of criminal charge.
It's going to be something that happens after they're deceased.
So their family is the only one who has to bear any stigma.
So not only do these families have to deal with the fact that they've lost a loved one to a tragedy, but now they have to go presumably through testifying in court and having to go to the courthouse and things like that, possible media attention, basically being publicly humiliated over something tragic that's happened in their lives.
We think that this is grossly unfair.
You're punishing people who haven't done anything wrong, even if you think suicide is a bad thing, because these people didn't choose to commit suicide.
Their only fault is to have been related to someone who did choose that.
We think that this is grossly unfair to innocent people who, if anything, deserve extra consideration and good treatment, not to be treated as criminals.
And lastly, we think that this introduces an unfair element of public ethics into society.
Generally, in western countries, the state doesn't decide what's right and wrong, only that certain actions are antisocial.
So the most common reason to stigmatize suicide would be that if you're christian, muslim or jewish, this is seen as a sin.
But we think that this isn't something that's intrinsically bad.
If you imagine someone who doesn't have a family, who doesn't have any obligations to other people, decides one day that he wants to commit suicide, I wish that person wouldn't do that but I'm not sure that they're harming anyone else or that what they do is intrinsically bad.
So we think that this is ultimately projecting some people's religious views on to everyone.
Some people are projecting the idea that suicide is a sin on to society, and we see that therefore there's pressure for it to be treated as a criminal act.
But this seems grossly unfair, and we don't treat certain other sinful behaviors as criminal.
For instance, we let people drink alcohol even though that's seen as a sin by some religions.
So, ultimately, we don't think this is principally consistent with the idea of separation between church and state.
For all these reasons, we should not criminalize suicide.
Thank you.