We should not ban trans fat usage.
This evening we're going to argue first that this creates a false sense of safety for people, second that this shifts the burdens of healthy choices off of consumers and onto government regulators, and thirdly that this is an instance of government overreach.
So first of all, what do we mean by a false sense of safety?
Trans fats are effectively a bogeyman.
People are able to say, " , this is one very unhealthy part of the products we consume and if we get rid of it, then we'll be more healthy overall. "
But this ignores the fact that problems like obesity and heart disease are linked to unhealthy lifestyle and to much larger problems in the way that we eat and exercise, or perhaps don't exercise, than just trans fats.
If you ban trans fats, then ultimately people are likely to think, " oh, we've removed this problem and it's no longer such an issue, " when, in fact, they still remain at risk of diabetes, of heart disease, and other problems.
People aren't going to suddenly go and hit the gym and eat lots of kale just because you've ban trans fats.
We think it's likely that they will continue to eat mcdonald's, to exercise less than they should, and therefore face all of the same health risks.
But because you've banned trans fats and pinned all of the blame and accused trans fats of being the source of our problems, we think it's likely that people will think that they are living a more healthy lifestyle when, in fact, they are not.
We think that this false sense of safety, therefore, actually is counterproductive because it means that people won't take ownership, as I'll speak in just a moment about, of their poor choices.
Our second argument then is that this shifts the burdens of healthy lifestyle and healthy diet away from consumers.
By banning trans fats, the decision that you make is that ordinary people are too stupid or ignorant to determine what their diet should be like and what their exercise regime should be like and that the government should intervene in order to ensure that they only consume healthy products.
We don't think that this is fair because ultimately, at the end of the day, ordinary people can still choose to drink lots of soda or make other unhealthy decisions even if you ban unhealthy products.
Consider an analogous situation: in the city of new york, they banned selling soft drinks above, I think it was, twenty ounces.
But that didn't stop anybody from buying two twelve ounce sodas, if they wanted to do so.
So maybe instead of getting a large bottle, people got two cans of coke instead.
At the end of the day, if people want to make poor choices about their diet, the government can't stop them.
You need to encourage people to take responsibility and to take on their own health rather than have the state intervene to do it for them.
And at the end of the day, this sort of nanny state that bans trans fats is one that is unlikely to put this onus on citizens, instead choosing to blame a bogeyman that isn't actually the root cause of their problems.
Our third and final argument is about why governments ought not get involved in banning trans fats or other similar food additives.
We think that when you ban trans fats, you unfairly punish certain businesses.
By their very nature, some unhealthy foods contain trans fats and others do not, but this doesn't make the foods that contain trans fats arbitrarily worse than any other.
We think that in order to punish one group of companies, the ones who produce foods with trans fats, while letting coca cola or other companies that produce unhealthy foods get away without regulation, you need to explain how trans fats are categorically different than other unhealthy products or additives, such as high fructose corn syrup.
But you won't be able to do so because it isn't.
Yes, trans fats are bad for you and it would be better if we didn't eat them, but the same is true of high fructose corn syrup and other additives.
At that point, the state is basically choosing winners and losers by regulating one food component and not others.
We think that this is unfair and that the state ought not be in the business of picking winners and losers, but rather should allow the market to decide what people will and won't consume.
For all of these reasons, we should not ban trans fat usage.
Thank you.