We should not ban human cloning.
So the other side presents kind of a doomsday scenario for this where we're going to have dozens of cloned babies with horrible birth defects being created before we eventually get the process down, and it's going to be very degrading for these babies being created and ultimately for humanity in general.
We're fine with limiting the way that cloning is implemented, with regulating it for the well-being of the clones, and ultimately with doing this in a humane fashion.
We think it would be a shame to completely ban cloning when, in fact, it can probably be done in a really positive way for society as a whole and even for the clones.
And we're going to talk more about reproductive cloning, the cloning of an entire person than therapeutic cloning, where only a single organ is cloned, because that's what the other side has chosen to center this debate around.
Our first argument is about the scientific benefits that this would bring.
So we tell you that even if right now it's very difficult to clone a human being, that allowing public funds for research into this could ultimately lead to a better understanding of the human genome, of cloning in general, and of other scientific processes that I personally know nothing about but that I'm sure that scientists would be very grateful to look more into.
We think that ultimately a ban on any form of scientific research limits the scope of human knowledge and that because so often a breakthrough in one field needs to break throughs in others, that we shouldn't unnecessarily limit what our scientists are allowed to work on.
And because so many scientists rely on public funding, whether that be from the national endowment for the sciences in the united states or similar things around the world, ultimately we think that we should not limit the use of public funds for research into human cloning.
Our second argument is that we think that this is an unfair ban on one particular practice.
What do we mean by this?
If you think about what human cloning actually looks like, you take genetic material from one person and you generate a cell from it, and then you implant it into a surrogate mother.
So this doesn't sound that different from in vitro fertilization.
You're taking a cell from one person instead of a sperm and an egg from two people, but ultimately your doing this in a petri dish, and then you're implanting it into a volunteer surrogate mother.
So we think that at the point where, as far as I know, every developed country allows in vitro fertilization and it has really good outcomes for people, that it's something that really ought be allowed.
And the same people who benefit from in vitro fertilization might well benefit from cloning, for instance, if you had a gay couple who wanted to have a child, we don't see why it's wrong to let them do it through a clone and then having the clone implanted into a surrogate rather than having it be randomly selected whose genetic material is used to create this child.
Ultimately, as long as we're taking care to be sure that these children would have a good family and care when they grow up, we don't think it's important if they're a clone or a mix of two different people's genetics.
So we think it's principally unfair to ban cloning and not other things like in vitro fertilization as well.
And our third and final point is that any country that bans cloning is going to fall behind on research.
We see that almost certainly there's going to be some country that is willing to experiment with human cloning.
I remember reading once that it's quite likely that scientists in south korea have been researching this, even though it's seen as unpalatable by the international community.
So some country, maybe it's south korea or singapore or some other country that's a little bit more libertine in their attitudes towards these things, is going to do the research anyway.
At that point, you might as well allow your scientists to gain the benefits of working on and gaining this understanding, because ultimately the work is going to be done no matter what, and people who want a human clone produced are going to be able to fly to another country to have the work done.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban human cloning.
Thank you.