We should legalize the growing of the coca leaf.
So just to be clear what this debate is about, we're not saying that countries should legalize cocaine.
What we're saying is that the coca plant ought be legal in the countries where it grows naturally, places like libya, peru and colombia, where historically the native americans chewed the leaf as a stimulant for thousands of years and where many working people today still chew the leaf for a mild stimulant effect, which is nothing at all like cocaine and is not super-addictive, and it doesn't have the same health effects that cocaine does.
So with this in mind, three arguments for why we should legalize the growing of the coca leaf.
The first is that we think that this would actually undercut the illegal drug trade.
We think that if the coca leaf were available as an alternative for people to use that there would be less incentive for people living in latin america to consume cocaine.
We think that, in general, when you ban other substances, you make the worst possible substances more popular.
Why is this true?
Given that people face similar legal repercussions for using coca leaf as for using cocaine, and given that cocaine has much more extreme pleasurable effects, we think that in the status quo there's no incentive for people to use the less addictive, less harmful coca leaf.
By legalizing the drug we think that, ultimately, we make it more likely that people will choose to cultivate coca leaves for use in this particular non-addictive fashion rather than for use in cocaine.
This will obviously undercut the drug cartels in as much as it harms their ability to get access to coca leaves.
Now the other team might tell you that the cartels force people to grow coca leaves for them, in the status quo.
But we think that in our world, it is much more likely that the production of coca leaves will be normalized and regulated in such a way that the drug cartels will have greater difficulty doing this to begin with.
In other words, you undercut them because the production of the plant is no longer something that they have a monopoly on.
Our second argument is that we think that banning the coca leaf is an infringement on the rights of the native peoples of the andean region.
We see that these people have used coca leaves as a mild drug for thousands of years, similar to the cultural role that coffee has in places like ethiopia and turkey or that alcohol has in places like britain or germany.
We think that, ultimately, the reason why coca leaf is illegal, but tobacco or alcohol are legal, is an imposition of the colonial governments in this region.
When the spaniards first came here, they saw people using an unfamiliar drug and decided that it must be immoral, because they associated it with the way of life of the native americans.
We think that because these people have been oppressed for centuries, it is critical that we allow them to maintain their cultural institutions and allow them to flourish.
The only way to undo past wrongs, in terms of cultural oppression, is to encourage cultural tolerance now.
The harms of the past cannot be undone, only mitigated, and we think that we do this best by legalizing the growing of the coca leaf, particularly since this law disproportionately punishes native people, while not punishing the white settlers who go on to take advantage of the cocaine in the same way.
The last point that we would like to make is that there are many practical uses of the coca leaf that are being ignored in the status quo.
For instance, we tell you that there are likely many alkaloid chemicals within the coca leaf which have medical applications.
Recognize that this is why cocaine was first created is as a medication to be used in surgery and things like that, created from the coca plant.
But due to prohibition, we see that very little research has been done into the use of the coca leaf.
In our world we think that, ultimately, it would be better to let scientists choose to study this plant and its potential uses rather than to ban it.
So because of the harms this would do to the drug cartels, in order to preserve native culture, and because of potential research uses of the coca leaf, we should legalize the growing of these coca leaves.
Thank you.