Science is a major threat.
So in this debate the question is not is science good or bad only does it pose a threat to human existence?
We think that by major threat we mean some sort of threat that would pose a risk to millions or billions of people.
So with that in mind we have three arguments for you.
The first is that the ability to develop new technology or apply technology in new ways advances more quickly than ethics.
I think an example will be helpful here.
Consider genetic engineering, it is very likely that in the next decade or so we will be able to make designer babies for people.
You'll be able to go to the hospital and say I want a baby with green eyes and brown hair who is going to be five foot ten when he grows up or when he'll be a boy and all of these other things.
But we don't know yet if this is an ethical thing to do.
Society lags behind.
Our ethical systems are based on an older level of technology.
So questions like is it acceptable to choose traits about your children that in the past would have been left up to chance, that will determine their success in life, or different aspects of how they interact with others.
We also haven't really had time to consider whether it's right or wrong for people to play god in this way and I think that ultimately ethics always has to play catch-up to science.
The technology advances at a very quick rate and ethicists, and philosophers, and religious leaders, ultimately have to come to terms with things that they don't fully understand after they're able to see the consequences.
This poses a major threat to society in terms of our collective ethics, how we treat one another, and if you are obligations to other people.
So I think that the risk of societal upheaval is clearly a major threat.
Our second argument is about the existence of existential threats.
If you think about the kind of problems that might kill everyone in the world, global warming, nuclear war, some sort of rogue virus or something, none of these things exist in nature.
Back you know a hundred thousand years ago when everybody lived on the plains of africa nobody had to worry about climate change.
That was true up really until the last three hundred years.
That human beings weren't really powerful enough to make a long term impact on the planet.
But what we've seen in the last hundred years or so, is that the development of nuclear weapons, the acceleration of carbon emissions, means that suddenly we are making decisions about the world that will affect the future, not just for the next twenty or thirty years but for the next million years.
Ultimately, the use of a nuclear weapon might mean that a city is uninhabitable for a million years.
I think, I don't fully understand the implications.
I don't think many people do.
Climate change might mean that no one can ever live in new york city again come a few hundred years.
So ultimately science is a major threat because it has given us the ability to do much more harm than we ever had in the past.
This isn't to say that we don't get good things from science, only that the amount of damage people are able to do is much greater than it would have been back before the scientific revolution in the early modern period.
And our last argument is that science is unpredictable.
It used to be that the world changed very slowly.
If you were an ancient roman, say, you didn't have the perception that technology was that much different in your lifetime then your grandfather's lifetime or his grandfather's lifetime even.
But nowadays technology changes so quickly that even within the course of a single lifetime, people can't recognize the world around them.
We think that science is a major threat because it's unpredictable what the outcomes of scientific advances will be.
You know if you had asked your grandmother in nineteen thirty what she thought the year two thousand would look like, it probably wouldn't be very much like the real thing because technology has changed so much so quickly.
We think in the same way that it's difficult for people to plan for the future now because we don't know what it will look like.
So ultimately for these three reasons, we think that science is a major threat.
Thank you.