We should not to ban cosmetic surgery.
I'm going to present three arguments for why this is the case.
First, personal freedom.
We think that it is fundamentally arbitrary to ban cosmetic surgery when we allow people to make lots of other ultimately harmful decisions in order to pursue a more attractive figure or face.
We think that, for instance, since we allow people to take diet supplements and things like that that are heavily regulated, we allow people to diet and exercise in unhealthy ways, ultimately, we don't see why cosmetic surgery is the one place where we ought draw the line particularly when it's conducted by a doctor who presumably can maximize the safety of the procedure, but on top of that we think that you should always preference more freedom for individuals.
We think that every given person in society knows their own best interest and their own long term goals better than the government knows any individual goals.
We think that government should probably intervene if there are harms to others or if people are grossly lacking in information, but that's not the case here.
No one else is harmed.
I'll deal more with this just a minute, but no one else is harmed by you choosing to get a facelift and in terms of access to information, doctors are already legally obliged to provide you with a great deal of information so we don't think that's a problem either.
If the problem is that these procedures are risky so there's a compelling interest to limit it because citizens might be harmed or even killed, then we should just regulate these procedures more carefully, but I don't think that's the case.
I think the types of surgeries that we're talking about, broadly speaking, are quite safe.
By next argument is that some people need or feel like they need this type of cosmetic surgery.
Many people might have things like body dysmorphic or otherwise be very unhappy with their appearance, but insurance companies refuse to admit this is actually medically necessary or doctors don't think that this is an appropriate cure, but we think that people have a right to pursue treatments that would make them feel better if they genuinely think that it's in their own best interest.
So some people maybe they do or don't need these procedures but have the perception that they need it and we think it's unfair to punish those people, and on top of that, we think that someone's right to pursue their own happiness is foundational to liberal society, so we ought not deny it to those people and certainly this type of surgery makes some people very happy when they receive it.
So our last point, and I think that this addresses a lot of the concerns of the previous speaker, is about norms in society.
So recognize that the norms that exist don't change.
There were still people like keira knightley, or whoever, who are naturally very beautiful and still make people feel inadequate about themselves.
So we tell you that people still want the same body and the same face.
The goal that people seek to achieve does not change because you ban the method that they used to achieve it.
So the other team has no way to actually solve the problems that they identify.
They're correct that there are a lot of unfortunate harms to a culture that glorifies models and movie stars and denigrates ordinary looking people, but they don't have any way to make things better on their side of the house.
What they do get is lots and lots of people who in the status quo would have the means to improve their own mental health and their own view of themselves, lose out on that access.
On their side people who would be perfectly happy in the status quo are now unhappy, so we think that they're comparatively much worse off, but we also think that there's a problem in that access to these types of surgeries actually gets much lower because recognize that some countries are going to keep this around.
Lots of people in the status quo leave america and go to mexico to get this type of surgery done.
People from australia go to thailand.
We see that around the world people are already going to other countries to get these surgeries done more cheaply.
So we think that the rich who can afford to travel will still have access, but middle class or working class people who might have been able to save up for this type of procedure if it were available to them in britain or america or wherever they live, are now going to have no access.
So what they do on their side is further entrench the norm that the very wealthy are much more attractive than the rest of us now because they're the only ones with access to the surgery.
So for these reasons we think that you should not ban cosmetic surgery.
Thank you.