Multiculturalism brings more good than harm.
So in this debate, by multiculturalism what we're talking about is when new communities, predominantly immigrant communities choose to keep plots of elements of their own culture rather than completely integrate into the new culture of a country that they've just moved to.
So if you think about chinatowns in some parts of the world, for instance, that would be a good example.
And by bringing more harm than good we mean that there are probably benefits and harms to either side of the debate but we're going to prove that the good is outweighs the harms.
Two big arguments then: the first is about the tolerance that multiculturalism promotes within a society.
We tell you that in order for people to become more tolerant you need to bridge the empathy gap.
In other words, people need to be able to empathize with those who aren't similar to themselves.
The best way to do this is to have them interact day to day with people who are from a different background from themselves in a really obvious way.
We see that, for instance, people who don't know anybody who practices islam are probably more likely to be islamophobic than people who live in a neighborhood where there are muslim people.
In the same way we think that this is especially important for young people.
If you want young people to grow up being tolerant of others, being willing to accept people from different backgrounds and judge them based on their merits rather than their intrinsic characteristics, then you need to socialize those young people with people from other cultures at an early age.
It's very difficult to overcome entrenched biases later in life, it's much easier to just normalize young people to the idea that different people have different beliefs and that's okay and it's something that we can all tolerate and celebrate.
We think that multiculturalism does this better than pure integration because if you think about really integrated immigrant communities, think about italians in america, say.
It's true that there is some element of distinct culture that remains to this day but the celebration of that culture takes place entirely within the context of the dominant culture which means that young people aren't actually being normalized to accepting a different culture when they learn about italian american culture.
They're just seeing their own culture reflected in a different light.
We think that you need people who don't completely integrate in order to build this sense of tolerance.
You need this multiculturalism so that people have to come to terms with something that's outside of the dominant culture of their own country.
And we think that the reason why all of this tolerance is so important is that it will make it easier for people to work with people from different backgrounds, make it easier for people to be accepting of immigrants, and ultimately make your country more united and stronger.
Our second argument is about the exchange of ideas.
We think that there is no one culture that has everything figured out in the world.
We see that different places around the world have different norms for how they treat elderly people, how they treat people of different sexual orientation, how they approach religion etcetera and we think that different cultures have different strengths, might be a good way to think about this.
In other words, western culture, where lots of people are emigrating to western countries, the dominant culture's at these western countries still have lots of cultural ills.
They have baggage from previous eras that they haven't shaken off, they have shortcomings.
For instance, the way that elderly people are treated in a lot of western countries is shocking to people from other regions because the elderly are left a pretty much fend for themselves in retirement rather than being taken care of.
Using this as an example, we think that if people come to western countries and bring elements of their culture with them that include better ways of treating the elderly or better ways of engaging with people of different religions, whatever it may be, that this will make the culture in the western country ultimately superior to what it was before because it can adopt the best traits of these cultures that come in from around the world.
So we think that this exchange of ideas leads to a marketplace of ideas, where the best ideas ultimately will win out and you get a stronger more beneficial culture for the people who live there as a result.
So for these reasons multiculturalism brings more good than harm.