Big government is advantageous.
So, what we're advocating for on our side of the house is not a drastic increase in spending in any one country, we're talking about the philosophy behind a large government, that is very involved in people's lives, as opposed to a small government that's very reserved, and not involved in people's lives.
So, we have two arguments for why we think big government is superior to small government: the first is that, it better facilitates personal rights.
Realize that, everyone in the society has certain rights that they're granted, by the convention.
Whether that be the constitution in america, or by long held custom in a place like britain.
These might include the right to practice one's religion, the right to bear arms, whatever that may be in your country.
There are many facilitative rights, in order to access these conventional rights.
What do I mean by this?
Someone who is denied access to education might be unable to participate in the political process, which would be a guaranteed right.
So education is a facilitative right to enable other rights.
The same thing with the access to clean water: if you don't have clean water, you can't access a lot of other rights, because you get ill.
So ultimately, we see that things like clean water and healthcare are facilitative rights, to access other rights that people have.
What this means is that, for people who cannot access these facilitative rights without help from the government, their personal freedom is effectively non existent without state intervention.
Conversely, or somewhat surprisingly, small government actually removes individual freedom.
I know that the other side is going to get up here and talk about individual freedom, but it's an argument that we better win, because only we can provide these facilitative rights for people to access true personal freedom.
At this point, it's clear that we have an advantage over a smaller government, because people can get educated, people can get healthcare.
Only a large powerful state can intervene to provide people with these things.
There's no incentive for any other actor in society to do so.
Things like charity, et cetera, will never go far enough, only government can intervene on a large scope.
Our second argument is about enforcing equality.
Recognize that, everybody wants equality, except for themselves.
Everyone wants themselves and their group to have more privilege than everyone else in society.
Even if they don't explicitly say this, in practice people still take action to give themselves advantages over others, to help their group and their family, over any other group or family.
The state is the one entity which can rise above this, because it represents every group in society, at least ideally, in a democratic society.
We recognize that, not every state is perfect, but presumably for this debate to happen, we have to assume that states can act effectively in some senses.
So, if you want to equality for women, if you want to equality for minority groups, if you want protection for different religions, the only group with an incentive to do that is the state, because there's no other actor that has lots of buy in from all of these different groups.
We tell you therefore, that the only way to maximize freedom for anyone who is not a white christian man in america, or whatever the dominant group may be in different countries, is for the state to intervene, to raise other people up to that level.
Now obviously, this means that the freedom of that dominant group is reduced, when only viewed in comparison to the less fortunate groups, but absolute freedom, for the most people, has been increased through state intervention.
So we think that again, big government is advantageous here, because it offers freedom where otherwise there could be none.
The last idea, that I'll close with, is about how big government can react to new emerging problems.
For issues that require society wide interventions, such as a financial crisis, a large state is much more able to react quickly, because they have enough power to address an issue as it arises, rather than waiting for individuals to concoct ad hoc responses to a problem.
So for these reasons, we think big government is preferable to small government, and that it is advantageous.
Thank you.