Private education brings more good than harm.
So in this debate the comparison is between public schools which are run by a municipality or a county verses private schools which are run either by an entity like the catholic church or as a private nonprofit company.
In this debate we're talking about primary and secondary schooling not universities and we're talking about nonprofit schools only not the more predatory for profit schools that exists in some parts of the world.
So a good model to think of might be charter schools in america or catholic schools globally verses state run schools.
So with this in mind three arguments.
The first is that you'll have a greater quality of education in these schools.
Why is this true?
First of all, we think it's likely that private schools will be able to pay teachers more than public schools.
This is because private schools will be able to increase their budgets and charge more in intuition in order to attract the best educators.
The other team might say that charging more tuition means that fewer students will be able to attend.
But we think that the rise of fee waivers in countries like the united states and charity from groups like the catholic church, means that low income students will still have access to education and that ultimately this greater quality will be worth the cost.
That having better teachers and that creating higher salaries so that more people are willing to go on to become teachers will ultimately be the most important factor to improving education.
Ultimately you can have good curricula and good books but without good educators students will never be able to perform.
This is why we think ultimately some countries like finland have very very good education is because of good teachers.
But inasmuch as we can't replicate their model of civil service in other countries, we think that the private sector will do a better job emulating it then the public sector has in countries like britain or like the united states.
Our second argument is about access to education.
Right now the best schools are always going to be built in areas with the highest tax base.
What that means is that you have if you have for instance a very wealthy town surrounded by very poor farms in a county that ultimately the students in the town will have very good schools and the students of the county will have very poor schools, or perhaps in america you'll have very good schools in the suburbs and bad schools in the inner city.
We think that private schools can solve for this because ultimately if you want to build a good school for a certain community you can put it anywhere.
Obviously there have to be students who can pay tuition but we think that the aforementioned charity and tuition waivers from governments means that you will be able to provide better education in these cities.
At the end of the day the public sector will never be able to provide good schools for a place like detroit, because the tax base simply does not exist.
We think that only the private sector will be able to create equal access to high quality education for students there and that when you judge this debate you should weigh the provision of high quality education to students above any other concern because that's the purpose of education in the first place obviously, to benefit the students.
Our last argument is that we think that private schools will use the money that they receive from government and charity more efficiently than public schools.
When you exist in a competitive market obviously you want to use your money as efficiently as possible.
If you waste lots and lots of money on nonsense, then you won't be able to compete with other schools in your area.
This competition means that schools will have an incentive to fire under performing teachers, to lay off excess administrators, to purchase the best materials rather than repurchase materials over and over again when they aren't effective.
We think that there is a lack of these incentives in public schools where there is no competition, where there's no reason to fire bad teachers.
Ultimately we think that the only way to create competition is to allow schools to succeed and fail on a free market which requires the access to private education that we propose in this debate.
So because of a higher quality of education, because of better access to high quality education, and because of efficiency, we think that private education brings more good than harm.
Thank you.