Compulsory voting is advantageous.
So basically, we think that other democratic countries should adopt an australian style model, where there is a fine for people who do not go out and vote.
We're fine with establishing something like a national holiday where everyone gets the day off work, and also facilitating things like absentee voting and voting by mail, so that it's easier for people to get their ballot in.
But we do think that there needs to be a real punishment for people who choose not to vote.
We're okay with blank ballots as well on our side of the house, we think what's important is that people go out to the polls.
So, with that in mind, we're going to explain to you why participation is good.
But first, I'd just like to explain why participation is going to go up.
The other team might get up here and tell you that basically, if you make people go out to vote who don't want to, that they're just going to turn in blank ballots, or that they're going to write mickey mouse on their ballot.
But I think that if you require people to vote, they'll be more likely to take their duties as a citizen seriously, and that many more people will turn in real ballots with a vote that reflect their own interest, because they'll have more of an incentive to inform themselves about the candidates and the issues.
So with that in mind, let's think about the impacts of this increased participation.
Right now in a lot of countries voter participation in midterm elections is like forty percent.
So you're looking at much much greater participation.
What does this do in society?
We think that it makes governments more accountable to citizens.
Right now, governments can conduct lots of unpopular policies that hurt ordinary working people, that are bad for families, that are bad for low income people, that are bad for particular communities, and they're never held accountable, because people from those groups don't vote.
If you had a district that had very low voter turnout and all the people who voted were white, even though it was majority black, then the government would have no incentive to treat black citizens of that district well, because they don't contribute to voting.
All politicians care about is getting reelected, they don't actually care about helping citizens.
Everyone who goes into politics wants to increase their own power.
They might think that they want to help people, but if they really wanted to do that, they'd probably be a doctor or something instead, we tell you that elected officials are really just following their own will to power.
At that point the only way to hold them accountable is to link popular will to power and make them accountable, and the best way to do that is to force everyone to go out and vote.
The second major impact of this is that it would lead to less discrimination in government.
Right now governments can do things like draw voter boundaries, such that they know that a group of people who is very likely to vote is in a district with a group of people who are very unlikely to vote, and this let's them discriminate against the latter group.
For instance, by putting one wealthy town in a district with a low income town, they might say well wealthy people are much more likely to vote, so now we can discriminate against those low income people.
And they plan this in advance, we call it gerrymandering in the united states, when they deliberately draw boundaries to facilitate discrimination against one group of people.
We think that will be more difficult if all of those people had to go vote, now there would be less of an incentive to gerrymander, you would get better voting districts and also less discrimination.
And our last argument is about democratic legitimacy, and I think this is especially important for developing democracies.
The legitimacy of a democracy is based on the idea that it represents the will of the people.
It's very difficult for a government to claim that they represent the will of the people, when only thirty or forty percent of the people actually go out and vote.
We think that with mandatory voting you can say look, everybody in the country came forward and they turned in a ballot, and we counted that, and then we got the outcome that we did and now we're moving forward.
We think people are much more likely to respect those outcomes rather than to say, oh that's bogus, most people didn't even vote.
So at the end of the day, we see this affects even highly developed countries like the US.
Many people say that oh, hillary clinton would have won if voter turnout had been higher, so the election's not legitimate, things like that.
But it's a much greater concern particularly in low income countries or developing countries, where you run the risk of anti-democratic parties or anti-democratic institutions rising up, and exploiting people who think that democracy doesn't matter because it's not fair anyway.
So because of these impacts, we think greater voter participation is a good thing, and therefore that compulsory voting is advantageous.
Thank you.