The palestinian right of return is justified.
So what we're talking about in this debate is the idea that palestinians, refugees, have a right to return to the property which they or their ancestors left during what they call the nakba, the expulsion of many palestinians from what is now israel due to the conflict between israel and its arab neighbors in nineteen forty eight, as well as palestinians who were expelled from their homes in what is not west bank during the nineteen sixty seven war between israel and its arab neighbors once more.
So with this in mind, we're going to explain to you why we think that this is principally justified.
A couple of arguments for you.
First, we think that the palestinians clearly have a legitimate claim to their land.
We see that many palestinians were the legal owners of certain property during nineteen forty seven right before the british gave up their mandate.
So because the british were the legal government, we can quibble about how legitimate colonial governments are, but they were the legal government of the province of palestine in nineteen forty seven and these people were in good legal standing with the government and they owned this property.
We think it's clear that they have some claim to it.
Many of them were forced off of their property by jewish settlers during the nineteen forty eight war and the legal claim that they have remains.
The people who have taken it from them through violence, we think, have a lesser legal claim because of the way by which they acquired the property.
At that point we think it's clear that they deserve a right to return because we think that people shouldn't be forced to give up stolen property, that they should be able to reclaim it as soon as possible.
We think that the state of israel should recognize this and allow palestinians to return to property which they can demonstrate that they owned before nineteen forty eight and this will be principally just for the reasons that I've just given.
Our second argument is that the palestinians are a stateless people.
So much like the jews in before the creation of israel, the palestinians right now are a nation with no state.
The palestinians for the most part either live in israel, which is an explicitly jewish state, or in jordan or lebanon, which while they're also arabic states, have their own cultures and their own customs and which force the palestinians to live in refugee camps.
In fact there are more people living in palestinian refugee camps in jordan than there are native jordanians at this point.
We think that a stateless people is a recipe for unrest and disaster for ethnic cleansing and violence and that therefore, it is principally justified to give the palestinians a claim to a state, namely the territory that they were forced out of in israel.
Our final argument is that the palestinians are a unique case from other displaced or stateless groups because the refugee status is able to be inherited.
What does this mean?
There are other groups like the kurds who are peoples or nations without a state.
We're ambiguous or agnostic in this debate about whether or not there ought be a kurdistan, but what we tell you is that the palestinians are in a fundamentally unique situation worldwide.
Palestinians who were born in refugee camps in countries like jordan or lebanon, are also refugees.
They do not gain citizenship in jordan or lebanon.
What this means is that these people have no opportunity to integrate into any other state.
The palestinians are condemned to statelessness until such point as they have the ability to return to israel, which would be the land that they legitimately belong to.
We think that it's clear that there must be a right to return because people principally ought not be forced to live in refugee camps when they have legal claim to land and that more over this is distinct from the status of other peoples because of the ability to inherit refugee status for palestinians.
So for these reasons, the palestinian right of return is justified.
Thank you.