International adoption brings more good than harm.
So as an example of what we mean by international adoption, this might be parents in the US choosing to adopt children from russia, say, which is something that's become fairly common in the last few decades.
So three arguments for why we think that this brings more good than harm.
But first, just to be clear what we're debating about, we'd recognize that there are going to be harms on both sides of the debate.
We think that what we have to prove it's not that international adoption is completely good, but the good it does outweighs the harms that it also does.
So with that in mind, three arguments.
First, this is good for the children who get adopted.
What you tend to see with international adoption is children who live in middle income countries or developing countries being adopted by parents living in much wealthier countries.
We think that especially given that these are children who are probably living in orphanages, or in state run homes that ultimately these children are not going to be able to receive a lot of resources in their current environment.
We think that these children are much more likely to be able to exercise their rights and freedoms if they're adopted to a more developed country.
Why is this true?
First of all, in terms of access to things like healthcare, it's probably going to be a lot better if you're looking at the kind of parents who are wealthy enough to be able to internationally adopt a child.
In terms of access to higher education, in these developing countries it's likely to be more difficult for them to go on to access higher education or professional education, so we think that they'll be more likely to be able to choose the career that is best for them and ultimately to support themselves and have a good life as a result of being adopted by these parents.
And lastly, we think that these children will be better off because look, if somebody is going through the process of international adoption and all of the difficulties that that includes, we think these people must really want to adopt this child.
So we think it's very likely that this is going to be a loving home.
Whereas if the alternative's that these children are in orphanages, I'm sure that the people who work there are good people who are doing the best that they can, but that child would be better off in a loving home.
So it's clear that this is best for the children and we think that they're the ones who should be most concerned with in this debate, because these children can't advocate for or help themselves.
Or second argument is that this is good for the adopting parents.
Presumably, if people are looking to go through the expense of international adoption, they weren't able to have children in the normal way.
Maybe there's a shortage of children to adopt in their own country, this is true in the US, and also in other countries like in scandinavia or the netherlands, and presumably these are people who aren't able to naturally have children.
Perhaps it's a same sex couple, or perhaps it's just people who are for whatever reason unable to have children.
Clearly these people are better off because they're now able to become parents, which is obviously something that's very important to them, and this will help them to self actualize and live long happy lives.
Our third argument is that this is better for the country that these children were adopted from.
We tell you that it's a big risk, especially in a developing country, to have lots of young people who are disaffected or alienated and don't have a lot of opportunities.
And this is what you see when you have lots of children living in orphanages, because those children grow up, they turn sixteen or eighteen, they leave the orphanage, and they still don't have the resources or the safety net to be able to support themselves in an effective way, so we think it's more likely that these young people will either a, turn to crime, or b, become radicalized.
We see that the types of places that tend to have a problem with radicalism are often those that were war zones twenty, fifteen years ago, and that's often the case because there are lots of young men who feel disconnected from society, who are vulnerable to these leaders who want to radicalize them.
So we think that ultimately, it'll be better for these countries to have these children go to loving homes rather than to have them remain and potentially cause trouble in the future.
But on top of that, not having to have the massive expense of running these orphanages and providing for these children will also reduce the burden on the state and allow them to spend more on other issues within their own country.
So for these three reasons, we think that international adoption brings more good than harm.
Thank you.