International adoption brings more harm than good.
So like the other speaker, I agree that when we talk about bringing more harm than good, you are weighing and comparing different considerations.
But I think it's clear that ultimately, the harms that arise from international adoption outweigh the good.
What is the good, before we get into the harms?
Some individual children who are adopted from a country like the democratic republic of congo to a country like canada experience a better quality of life, and that's the main good for international adoption.
We don't see wide scale social changes or anything like that as a result of these adoptions.
All of the benefits are accrued on an individual level.
So let's look at the harms now.
First, we think that the orphans in the countries where adoptions are taking place ultimately suffer.
Consider for instance that many americans who are kind of racist, unfortunately, believe that they need to adopt a white baby.
And there aren't a lot of white babies available for adoption in the united states right now, so instead, they look to russia or other eastern european countries to be able to adopt.
What this means is that there are thousands of american babies who are now losing out on potential parents.
We're not saying that american babies are more deserving than russian babies of adoption, but what we are saying is it creates a perverse effect that disproportionately puts burdens on one class of people, these babies who are people of color in the united states, that prevents them from having access to homes.
So we see individual benefits accruing to these babies being adopted from russia, while an entire class of people is being harmed in the united states.
We think that that is ultimately unacceptable.
Our second argument is that we think that this is a tool to break up cultural groups.
We see that oftentimes these children being adopted are coming from conflict zones, or areas that have been destabilized, and that's why their families either aren't able to take care of them, or are deceased.
So oftentimes, these are going to be the children of minority groups then, because those are the minority groups in developing countries are probably the groups that are most likely to be persecuted or oppressed.
So in multi cultural countries in sub saharan africa, like the democratic republic of congo for instance, or the central african republic, we see a tremendous amount of ethnic violence and strife.
But what happens when you send the children of these minority groups to the united states?
The other team might say that it's preferable to get that cultural group away from its home country to somewhere safer.
But if you send these children away, then they lose all of their cultural heritage.
Their parents language, their religion, their culture, their art, they lose access to all of these things and they become assimilated as americans or germans or britains.
Ultimately we think therefore, that this erases entire cultures, and that again, this is a harm that applies to a broad swath of people, not merely to individuals.
So we think that these harms outweighed the individual benefits to those babies that are adopted.
And the third argument is that this hides deeper issues.
What do I mean by this.
Certain countries know that their children in orphanages are likely to get adopted by well meaning westerners, and this allows them to not invest a lot in improving the quality of care provided to orphans or to children in social services, etcetera.
We think that if you have this release valve on the system, then there's very little incentive to spend money on it, very little incentive to improve it, and many people may not even realize that the system is broken at all.
But when you hear about children living in these awful orphanages in countries like romania in the nineteen eighties and nineties, one reason why their governments were able to get away with this is because there was a release valve in the form of adoption.
So ultimately, we think that international adoption harms the children who will remain in those orphanages because they don't get adopted on the other side.
So what you can see is that entire large groups of people are worse off because of this international adoption, while only a few individuals benefit.
So we can get the harm outweighs the good.
Thank you.