We should not ban child actors.
We think that, ultimately, it would be a gross government overreach to ban child actors and that it would have many harms for society as a whole.
The first argument I'd like to make is just one about what would actually happen if you were to ban child actors.
If you have a multibillion dollar business like paramount studios, and they want to make movies like harry potter that gross billions and billions and billions of dollars, using child actors, they're not going to stop just because the state of california tells them that they can't use child actors.
Instead, maybe they'll move to another state, so maybe we'll see hollywood move to new york or something like that, or if the entire united states ban child actors, then maybe hollywood would move to singapore, or hong kong, or some other place that would be more likely to give them a favorable regulatory environment.
And if you think that the situation is bad now, remember that the US has fairly strict labor laws.
If hollywood were to move to another country with laxer labor laws, then the situation for these child actors might be even worse.
So I think that, ultimately, there's no way to stop studios from hiring child actors, because there's a huge demand for them in movies.
So, ultimately, the best thing we can do is keep the studios in california where they can be regulated, and we can be sure that the children still get an education and aren't being abused terribly much, but that's just assuming this is about hollywood.
If any other place in the world tried to do this, then obviously their studios would just come to los angeles, so I don't see that there would be any benefit whatsoever to doing this, in terms of actually helping the children, which seems to be what rachel is most concerned about in this debate.
Our second argument is that it's almost always preferable to regulate rather that ban.
We've had child actors for over a hundred years at this point, and we can see that the situation for them has improved tremendously.
There used to be a huge problem with child actors being abused, so now we make sure that they have a minder when they're on the set, and that they're not alone with older workers.
We now ensure that child actors get a good education and pass the same tests as other students, so that they can get a real job when they're older if they choose not to keep acting.
It used to be that child actors could be made to work extremely long hours.
Now they're relatively limited.
As you can see, the situation has gotten better over time and if there are legitimate problems with child acting right now, and I don't know that there are, then we can probably solve them through regulation.
And because the studios want to make money off of movies featuring child actors and they want to stay in los angeles, it's clear that they will actually obey these regulations, especially because actors are all part of the screen actors guild, at least in america, so they have strong union protections to ensure that these rules are actually followed.
And our third and final point is that child actors are a cultural necessity.
It's very difficult for me to imagine what film and television would look like if you couldn't include children in it.
Would you just write out every child character from every movie and film?
Well, then, children wouldn't have as many role models to look up to and wouldn't be able to enjoy a film in the same way that they do right now.
Indeed, it's hard for me to imagine how almost any classic film could be made without allowing child actors.
To be sure, there aren't a lot of kids running around in silence of the lambs, but the larger hollywood system certainly relies on having children available for some of their best and most well-regarded movies.
Therefore, it seems like you would undermine an art form that's very important to our culture today if you were to ban child actors.
And what's more, you would unfairly exclude one class of people due to an immutable trait from appearing in film.
We think it's wrong to exclude children just because of their age from appearing in something that's very culturally significant for them as well as for adults.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban child actors.
Thank you.