Goal-line technology brings more good than harm.
So, by this we mean things like instant replay, and technology actually at the gold level in fifa matches, and we think that, by do more good than harm, that ultimately this would be good for fifa, and it's good for sport in general.
So we have to arguments for you, the first is about faith and referees.
So, most sports rely very heavily on perceived legitimacy of the officials, like the referees, in order for people to have faith that the outcome of the games aren't rigged or aren't heavily biased.
So if people don't think that the referees are doing their job properly, then they're going to be less invested in the sport.
We think that we solve for this because when you can go back and have a referee reverse the poor call by using instant replay technology, then people know that the referee is actually doing a better job, is more willing to overturn bad calls, and is actually able to make a good call when they're too far away to see something up close.
All of this means that you get more viewers because people will think that the sport is more fair.
One reason why people might stop watching sport or choose not to watch it, is that they think that the matches are rigged, and it's much more difficult to think that matches are rigged if it's demonstrably true that they simply aren't because we have computers that can replay exactly what's happening.
But on top of that, we think referees will be more willing to change calls.
Right now while it's true that referees in fifa and other sports can change a call after it's made, they have little reason to do so because they're not getting more information after they make their original call.
Now we can provide them with more and better information which might reverse bad calls, and reward teams for playing well rather than for having good luck.
So we think that ultimately teams will play better when the incentive is more to focus on winning the game and not gamesmanship and showmanship, as unfortunately is sometimes the case right now.
Think about flopping in basketball as an example of this.
Players pretend to get injured who aren't really getting injured, but with instant replays we can tell if it's legitimate or not and avoid the rest being tricked by gamesmanship.
So our second argument, is about why we think it's harder to rig matches if you have instant replay technology.
So we think that first of all you need accountability to prevent matches from being rigged.
Recognize first of all that when a match is rigged, lots of people have to be involved in this.
Many players, coaches, referees are all involved.
It's very rare that it's only one person who is rigging a match, and in those instances we still think we better check by having instant replay technology.
Because we think that we can prove that someone didn't play their hardest, or that a goalie allowed the ball to go in, or that a referee was calling shots unfairly for a particular team, or that a coach wouldn't make a certain play that needed to be made for his team to win the game.
We think that accountability and rigging matches are really important because so many people invest a lot of money in owning and managing teams, lots of communities, economies are based around the supplying service economy that goes along with the team, so we think that this actually is very important to a lot of communities that sports are fair and that people are going out to watch matches.
We think that you change the decision making process for everyone involved who might be engaged in cheating by having instant replay.
If everyone knows that there's a greater risk that they'll get caught doing the wrong thing, then we think that they won't do the wrong thing as often.
This seems pretty intuitive, that if you know you could lose your cushy job as a ref or as a sports player, that you're ultimately not going to cheat because you would rather keep your job rather than gamble or otherwise break the rules.
But we also think that players will have more faith in one another if everyone is kept honest by this instant replay technology.
I think that it's pretty likely that a lot of players who cheat right now, or officials that cheat right now, do it because they think everyone's doing it and there's a cultural problem where it's impossible to prove that other people aren't taking advantage, and you are worse off than everyone else if you aren't also take advantage.
But with instant replay we can show who was actually being genuine and who isn't, so we think that people will have more faith in other people involved in the sport, and thus that there will be less of an incentive to cheat for that reason.
Lastly we think that punishments will be more fair if it's more apparent what people are actually doing.
Using instant replay is a bit like having DNA evidence in a court trial, instead of just relying on witness testimony.
We think that you can actually be more fair in allocating punishment to players, officials, and anyone else who's involved in cheating.
So for these reasons, we think that goal-line technology brings more good than harm.
Thank you.