We should not abolish nuclear weapons.
By that we mean to say that the current countries with nuclear weapons, especially russia, china and the united states, should not get rid of their nuclear stockpiles.
We think that they should be maintained and perhaps that russia and america should reduce their vast stockpiles, but that ultimately it is in everyone's interest to have the great powers of the world be nuclear powers.
Our first point is that nuclear powers are ultimately less likely to go to war with one another.
Why is this true?
Well first of all, let's just look at the historical evidence.
In the past, great powers traditionally went to war almost every generation.
We saw world war one was followed by world war two and preceded by the franco-prussian war, which was preceded by the crimean war, which was preceded by the napoleonic wars, and ultimately as you go back, we see repeated conflict between the major powers of the world, especially in europe where all these very powerful countries are packed in tightly together, like wolverines in a cage.
Since the invention of nuclear weapons though, there has never been a war between two major countries.
Ultimately, the reason this is true is because of mutually assured destruction.
If the soviet union and the united states had gone to war, both countries would have been destroyed, which meant that for the first time in history, you could have an existing powerful empire, like the united states, and a new rising empire, like the soviet union, coexist in relative peace.
Now, obviously, the two fought many proxy wars such as in vietnam and afghanistan but ultimately, it was much better for the people of the world to have the superpowers limit their conflicts to proxy wars rather than fight a massive land war in central europe that would have killed probably tens and tens of millions of people, since it would have been on an even greater scale than world war two.
Ultimately, the reason why there hasn't been another world war is that nuclear weapons make the cost too high, and this extends even beyond great powers.
Why haven't pakistan and india gone to war again since the seventies?
We posit that it's likely that the existence of nuclear weapons makes it too risky for even these two sort of ultimate enemies to conscience going to war with one another, whereas we see that regionally in the middle east, where israel has nuclear weapons and the other countries don't, israel and its neighbors are relatively free to go to war with one another because there's no risk of nuclear destruction.
So for these reasons, we think that ultimately many more lives are saved by nuclear weapons than are likely to be lost, because no rational actor will ever actually use these weapons due to mutually assured destruction.
So we think that it would be a huge mistake to abolish nuclear weapons and that it would return us to a state of international affairs in which powerful countries like russia, china, and the united states, fight wars that ultimately kill tens of millions of people.
And our second point is that nuclear weapons aren't uniquely bad.
So, this might seem a bit strange to say that the most terrifying weapons in the world aren't especially terrifying.
But imagine if you were a person who was killed by a nuclear weapon.
Let's say, you lived in hiroshima at the end of world war two.
Well, the united states destroyed tokyo before hiroshima and nagasaki using conventional bombs, and I don't think it made an iota of difference to the people who died in tokyo and other cities whether they were killed by fire bombs or nuclear bombs.
Ultimately, when you're destroyed in a horrible inferno, the effect is the same for you.
And while it's true that nuclear bombs damage an area for long periods of time, they're far from the only weapons that do this.
We see that all the way back to roman times, there was the idea of sowing an area with salt so no one could ever live there again.
And today, things like chemical weapons ultimately can also make an area unsafe to live in for many generations.
So nuclear weapons aren't uniquely bad for the victims or for people who live in the country after they're used as long as they aren't used on a cataclysmic scale, which seems unlikely to happen due to mutually assured destruction.
So because we're really talking about tactical nuclear weapons in this debate, they don't seem so bad compared to the alternatives.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish nuclear weapons.
Thank you.