We should not abolish personality tests.
Now, sam tells you that government agencies should stop using personality tests for hiring.
We think that in instances where personality tests are used in the status quo that it should be up to the agencies whether to continue to use them and that private companies, similarly, should continue using them if they think it's useful.
Ultimately, we find that these personality tests are an important tool in our toolbox, even if they're not the only criterion that we use for hiring someone.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that these are a useful tool, even if they're imperfect.
While it's true that you cannot boil someone's personality down to its most basic elements using a two hundred question quiz that gives you a myers brigg type, you can learn some details about people.
For instance, if someone's job requires that they be outgoing and personable, then hiring someone who is extremely introverted is probably not the best hiring decision.
Now it's true that we can't quantify these things perfectly scientifically, but we can gauge whether someone is more or less extroverted or introverted, and if that's important for a job, then that ought be something that we can consider in the same way that we might consider whether or not someone can lift forty pound boxes if their job is to load a truck.
Similarly, tests that reveal someone's neuroticism might tell us whether or not that person would be able to do an extremely stressful job over the long term.
If someone is given to extreme anxiety or prone to depression, ultimately that person might not be suitable for a job which might bring out those traits, because the person would be inhibited from working at their highest level while they were experiencing those emotions.
So while it's true that these are not perfectly scientific, they can reveal traits that are useful for employers to know about, and we don't think there's anything wrong with discriminating against people who are unsuited to a job.
These aren't protected classes.
These are personality traits that make someone more or less suited for a certain line of work, and we ought try to suss those out before the person actually takes the job, rather than fire them later.
Our second argument is that ultimately, the harms sam gives you for personality tests are not unique to personality tests.
He tells you that they entrench certain power structures, that they rely on sort of judgments of people rather than fair assessments, but ultimately, as long as we have interviews, the same kind of process is going to take place.
When you interview someone, you're trying to tell the same sorts of things that a personality test would tell you.
Is this person outgoing?
Is this person personable?
Is this person well-suited for the position?
So, ultimately, we tell you that as long as we continue to use interviews, which are essential, people are going to be participating in this sort of power imbalance and that, with that being the case, there's no unique harm to personality tests, so banning them has no benefit.
At that point, because there is some benefit to using them and no benefit to banning them, we ought defer to not abolishing these personality tests.
And the final thing I'd like to say is that abolishing personality tests is unfair to people who score well on personality tests.
If these people have a trait that makes them well-suited to a job, they deserve the opportunity to show employers that trait.
While this may hurt some other people, we think it's unfair to reward certain types of traits and not others, when they contribute to someone's ability to do a job.
So if someone has a personality that makes them uniquely well-suited, we ought let them make that apparent to employers, not only through interviews but also through some sort of measurable facet, in the same way that we would let someone with high test scores or a good degree show that to an employer.
This is unfair to the people who benefit from these personality tests in the status quo.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish personality tests.
Thank you.