We should not disband unesco.
On our side, we're going to argue, first, that unesco actually does promote cultural and scientific collaboration and, therefore, that it does achieve its stated goal, and secondly, that the alternative is no better, and therefore there's no actual reason to disband unesco.
So, first, we want to talk about how unesco actually does promote cultural collaboration.
By raising awareness of issues around the world, by sponsoring events, by encouraging people to volunteer, by protecting cultural sites, unesco absolutely does protect human heritage and encourage scientific and cultural collaboration.
It's true that unesco is far from perfect, but oftentimes this is because different groups don't agree what is meant by promoting scientific and cultural collaboration.
Unesco is only ever going to be as good as the countries that make it up.
Unesco is never going to be able to be completely perfect from any one person's perspective because it has to balance many different viewpoints and try to achieve the goals of many different groups simultaneously, while being fair to them all.
So, for instance, unesco doesn't spend a lot of money promoting cultural sites in wealthy countries because those countries can probably afford to maintain and promote them on their own.
So, necessarily, unesco focuses its resources and efforts on less wealthy countries.
This leads some people to think that unesco is biased against particular countries.
We'll come back to israel in just a minute, because there is bias there, but we would tell you that unesco tries its best to allocate its resources and that even if it isn't perfect, it is still achieving its goals, because it does promote this awareness and understanding.
Now I'd like to respond to what rachel said about how unesco picks on israel.
First, this isn't a problem that's unique to unesco.
The entire united nations is very strongly opposed to israel and very supportive of the palestinians.
I don't think this is really the place to hash out the why, but simply to point out that any organization that involves every country in the world as members is going to be anti-israel, because most of the world's countries are opposed to israel.
We think that at the end of the day, this leads nicely into our second point about why they're the alternative will also be political, but at the end of the day, the situation is much clear-cut regarding israel than rachel says.
Yes, unesco often singles israel out, but israel also doesn't have like a unique claim to all of its heritage the same way that a country like italy does, because of the circumstances in which it was created.
So we think it's a little bit reductive for rachel to complain about israel not being recognized as the sole inheritor of the temple mount when the situation there just simply is much more complicated than the situation for the roman forum or the greek acheron.
Our second argument, then, is about how the alternative would also be political.
Unesco is political because it's made up of politicians and it has tries to represent the interest of many different countries.
It has money to spend and therefore people are competing to get that money.
There's no solution from the other side to these problems.
Rachel says that we should get rid of unesco, but she also presumably believes that the things unesco does are good or in some way valuable.
Right?
I think almost everyone would agree that it's good for the UN to promote cultural and scientific understanding and learning around the globe.
In fact, unesco's probably one of the least objectionable things that the UN funds and does.
So, her solution is to get rid of unesco and replace it with another group that does the same thing, but nothing would actually change then.
This group would still be opposed to israel because of the fact that the international community is opposed to israel.
This group would still focus on some countries more than others.
This group would still be full of petty infighting and sometimes fail to achieve its goals for political reasons.
We think that at the end of the day, there's no real solution to the problem of international institutions being political, but we should still respect the successes that unesco has had and not disband it.
Thank you.