Slum tourism does more good than harm.
So I think it's clear that when we talk about this debate, the people we should be most concerned about are those who live in the slums and favelas an impoverished areas.
Because ultimately, they are the people who have the least ability to help themselves and who most need to be uplifted.
So three arguments: the first is that slum tourism helps poor areas.
We tell you that fundamentally, slum tourism will always bring in tourist money.
Even if, as the other team tells you, sometimes the tour operator keeps most of that money, we still think that comparative is that more businesses in this area are now drawing these people in.
Presumably they're still buying things like water and food while they're there, we think it's very likely that businesses will be able to start to serve the interest of these tourists, like selling them knick-knacks and trinkets and ultimately that this is a way for people in those communities to better themselves.
But on top of that, we think that it will help these areas because it draws attention to them.
Many people simply are unaware of the issues faced in these favelas and in these slums and ultimately we think that they will be more aware and there will be more outcry if this tourism exists.
And we also think, on top of that, that there is more of an incentive for governments to care about safety in these areas, if they're popular with tourists.
Recognize that tourist areas are often the best policed and the most protected by a local government and we think if you have lots of tourist entering a favela or similar area, that they're more likely to have a police presence that will actually protect people in that area from crime.
And this is essential because if you don't have the ability to rely on the state to protect you, it's much more difficult to accumulate capital.
This is a huge problem at some countries like south africa where people in slums and shantytowns feel like they should spend their paycheck immediately because the rate of mugging is so high, that they're afraid to hold on to any money because it'll be stolen from them.
We can reverse that kind of thinking by bringing in more police in order to protect the tourists.
Secondly, we think that you access better socialization.
You can reduce racial bigotry, for instance, if a slum is full of people of one race in the tourists are mostly of another.
Because if you actually meet individuals who are from a different group, we think you're more likely to be able to be sympathetic towards them and to recognize that they're not so different from yourself.
So we think that comparatively we will get more sympathy and more respect for the human dignity of these people on our side, which will ultimately lead to people caring more about them.
We think that this will lead to the creation of advocates for these groups that otherwise wouldn't exist.
So recognize that in order to really advocate for a cause you need to have education and access to the media, things that people who live in slums normally don't have.
But if lots of wealthy tourists are coming in, we think that even if only one percent of them really care, that ultimately you're more likely to get the kind of advocates who can demand that governments improve these people's quality of life and actually provide them with the services that they need.
We think you're more likely to get things like lawyers doing pro bono work to help the community, because they'll actually be aware of the needs that exist and because the visceral experience a visiting an area can have a profound impact on people.
So our last argument is about the indignities that slum tourism creates.
So we don't contest that there is a strange dynamic where these people are being put on display by slum tourism, but you need to weigh the benefits of the reactions that you get in the tourists versus the harms.
Recognize, first of all, that indignities don't go away just because you get rid of this tourism.
These people, who don't have access to things like running water and electricity, face indignities and affronts to their human dignity every single day of their lives.
So we don't see that this is something uniquely created by slum tourism.
What we do think is unique is the benefits of the reactions that tourist have.
When they go in they see how unfortunate these people are, they are much more likely to go back to their own communities and demand some sort of change.
So when you're thinking about who wins this debate, it's going to be the side that can prove to you that they actually have a path to improve these communities, and I think clearly that's one.
Where people have a visceral reaction that causes them to care about these people and identify with them as fellow humans.
Something that will never happen from reading a unesco report as the other side tells you.
So for these reasons we think that slum tourism can actually do more good than harm.
Thank you.