We should not abolish intelligence tests.
So we think that IQ tests and other similar institutions should continue to be used by employers or schools as they see fit.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that even if IQ tests and similar tests are imperfect, they still give people an opportunity to prove themselves.
We think that ultimately, IQ tests give people a way to demonstrate their ability to recognize patterns and solve puzzles.
While these aren't the only ways to measure intelligence, ultimately they are indicative of some skill, namely to solve puzzles and recognize patterns.
So it's not that IQ tests don't measure anything.
Maybe they're being built to broadly by measuring overall intelligence, but they do reflect some ability.
And I think generally we find that people with high IQ's tend to correlate with our perceptions of people with high intelligence.
It may not be a perfect correlation but it is there.
We think that it's useful to offer these intelligence tests because they can allow people to demonstrate their intelligence, who for social reasons might not otherwise be able to.
For instance if people have an inherent bias that certain races or groups are more intelligent, then this might allow someone from another group to prove that they're actually just as smart as people from a different group.
For instance, in the US we often see asians or jews as kind of model minorities who are more intelligent than other groups, but if you have someone from a different background who is black or hispanic who is able to do very well on an intelligence test, it would be more likely that that person would be respected for their intelligence than they would just based on their race.
Maybe the world shouldn't be that way.
In fact, it certainly shouldn't be that way.
0 but since that how is how the world is, we think intelligence tests provide a useful way for people to prove themselves.
Our second argument is that these can be useful in selection processes.
So for most jobs or most competitive scholarships or spots in a school there will be many more competitive candidates who deserve to be able to go to the school then there are spaces.
So, in other words, there would be more people who could do the work at a school, more people who could succeed at a job, then there are spaces for people to participate.
We need some way to choose between people.
And ultimately, while intelligence tests aren't perfect, at the very least they're better than something like an interview.
These tests don't involve any one person's implicit biases.
You may say that the tests themselves are biased but we still think that they're preferable to having interviews as the alternative, because ultimately interviewers are likely to be much more biased than a test is.
Interviewers tend to select people who are more like themselves and to favor people who are very different from themselves less, and we think that these tests ultimately consult for that.
Because everyone has an equal chance to solve some sort of math or puzzle based test relatively speaking.
So this is still a good way to choose people for jobs or for positions in schools.
And our final argument is that there's no clear better alternative.
I already mentioned that interviews are much more biased than these tests, and I think it's quite likely that you would see any replacement would be at best equally biased as intelligence tests.
Ultimately when you have to sort people based on intelligence no one metric is ever going to reveal the full story.
One person might be good at solving math puzzles, another person might know six languages and another person might have an eidetic memory.
But ultimately we need some way to distinguish more from less intelligent people.
And intelligence tests are a sufficient way to do this.
They're not the perfect one, but there's no clear superior alternative.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish intelligence tests.
Thank you.