We should not abolish the olympic games.
So we're going to argue that the olympics should continue in much the same way that they're held and organized right now.
Our first point is about international cooperation and competition and its value.
The olympics are really a unique time for countries to compete and come together with one another in a way that allows them to show off their own culture and unique identities to the world and also butt heads in a peaceful and even productive way.
We see, for instance, that oftentimes the olympics allow countries to compete against their rivals in a way which is fundamentally peaceful and if anything very enjoyable for everyone involved.
So if you look back to the cold war, for instance, the united states and the soviet union were competing in every sphere globally, but we see that when they competed at the olympics it it was more with an air of athletic camaraderie than one of active hostility and what's more that it was a way for people to vent their feelings about tensions between the two super powers without actually having to compete in any sense that would harm people.
So when you have things like the americans winning the gold medal in hockey or the russians winning the gold medal in basketball, obviously that stirred up a lot of tensions between the two countries but it also let people vent feelings in a very healthy way.
We think that's a unique value of sports is that they let people express their emotions even negative emotions in an ultimately harmless and safe environment and because the olympics let people do that across national boundaries, we think it's really valuable in order to reduce things like jingoism and in order to let people also see those from other countries in a different light because if you're watching someone perform in an incredible way athletically you're more likely to be sympathetic to them as a person even if they're from a country that may be enemies with your home.
So we think that's a very special and unique value of the olympics.
Our second point is that the olympics represent the acme of human athletic achievement.
We think that this is tremendously valuable because for many sports there would be no sort of highest stage without the olympics.
While sports like soccer or basketball have other high profile international competitions, we don't think many people would have a chance to see the peak of human ability in things like gymnastics or swimming without the olympics.
This is really the only venue for those sports at an extremely high level.
We think it's valuable to celebrate human achievement even if it's in venues like swimming that may not actually improve our day to day lives.
Simply to have an appreciation for other people's hard work and achievement to something that gives people tremendous enjoyment and also lets them reflect upon their own life and their own efforts.
So we think that this is good not only for the athletes and the countries that win and get to celebrate, but also for the people who watch and get to appreciate the fuller view of the human experience and our third and final point is that contrary to what tim tells you the olympics actually can be good for their hosts.
It may be true that brazil lost lots of money hosting the olympics but there's no reason why that has to be the case.
Think about how popular barcelona is today as a tourist destination.
It's one of the most visited cities in the world and everyone I know wants to go there but before the nineteen ninety two olympics barcelona was relatively obscure.
So we see that the olympics are a way for a city to boost its international profile and raise awareness of the things that it has to offer to the world.
What's more, other cities like los angeles may not need that same boost in the international eye because they're already well known but they can still bring in lots of tourist and make lots of money by hosting if they use existing facilities intelligently.
Tim tells you that cities have to build too much for it to be profitable but this is why some cities like atlanta build services like the atlanta metro that ultimately go on to be very beneficial for citizens for decades into the future.
So we think that this can't ultimately pay off even if there are high upfront costs.
So for all these reasons, we should not abolish the olympic games.
Thank you.