We should abolish temporary employment?
So in this debate, we're talking about countries with strong labor regulations, like the US, canada, wherever, and that they should abolish temporary employment, things like temp agencies, which are like placement agencies that, help you get short term work, seasonal workers.
So, if you think about strawberry pickers in california, these people tend to only work for a couple of months out of the year, and then they travel to another area to work on a different type of farm.
So, these are the types of things that we're talking about abolishing.
Two big arguments: the first is that, we think that the system of temporary employment is abusive to workers.
Basically, what it does is shifts all of the risk of the economy onto vulnerable workers, and away from wealthy business owners.
How does this work?
So, when you have this big reserve pool of labor, you have lots of people who are desperate for any kind of work they can get, who are at the whims of employers.
Employers can hire people, and give them no health benefits, no way to provide for their family, they pay very low wages, and there's lots of people who are desperate to get this type of work, because they don't have anything else.
So what this means is that, employers can bring people in, for, say, three months to meet demand.
In doing so, they, first of all, are able to hire fewer full time staff.
Recognize that, the trade off of temporary employment is fewer permanent employees, because why would you want to have ten people on staff, if you only need six of them in july, but you need all ten in december?
He'll just get rid of them, and replace them with temps, who also don't take up health insurance money, and things like that.
But aside from that, we think that it's abusive to employees, because it commodified them, it strips away everything individual about these people, it strips away their ability to improve themselves, and leaves them being treated solely as someone who is able to do the most basic of task, for a handful of weeks, and then be kicked out to the curb, with no consideration and no rights from their employer.
So, we think that, it would be better to abolish temporary employment to increase per full time employment, and also because we think that, if you had these people who are unemployed, and there was no temporary employment, that new opportunities for full time employment would open up, as a result from different businesses that would want to take advantage of skill sets that aren't available right now, because laborers are commodified, and employers aren't looking at their individual skills.
Our second argument is about how this limits the economic potential of a country.
So, we think that as a government, you ought abolish this, because it will lead to more economic growth if you were to do so.
These temporary employers are effectively wasting millions of man hours every year in your country, because if people are working two months as a farm hand, and two months as a factory worker, and a month here as a seasonal employee for something, at the end of the day, these people are spending a lot of time between jobs, when they're not working.
These are people who aren't contributing to your gross domestic product, who aren't paying taxes, who are probably taking up unemployment, and things like that.
So, you have a clear financial incentive, as a government, to want the economy to grow, and to want people to be employed, so you should abolish this.
But on top of that, people need long term employment, in order to be able to grow the economy through investment.
If people have long term jobs, then they're more willing to save, they're more willing to invest, they're willing to get educated, so that they can get promoted at their work, and all of these things will lead to your workers being more competitive, relative to other countries.
It'll lead to them putting more effort into their work, and ultimately contributing more to the economy as a whole.
So, I think it's clear that as a government you would benefit from this, and that the citizens in your country, who rely on you as a government, would benefit from it as well.
So for these two reasons, we should abolish temporary employment, thank you.