The right to internet access should not be guaranteed.
We are going to argue, on our side of the debate, that government should not give people a constitutional or legal claim to internet access.
Three points for our side.
The first is a little bit of analysis about where rights come from.
We think that you can identify three sources of rights in a civil society.
The first are rights from nature.
These are rights that people are born with and have by virtue of being a human being or from their creator, depending on how you view the world.
Something like the right to life is probably a natural right that people have simply by virtue of being a human being.
They have the right to continue to live and experience the world around them.
A right by convention is a right that people have because society has decided that this is the way that we want to treat people.
So the right to a fair trial obviously doesn't exist in nature.
There aren't courtrooms out in east africa where we evolved, but it's something that just societies acknowledge as important to let us do business and participate in society around us.
And finally, we have facilitative rights.
These are the rights that we need in order to access our natural or rights by convention.
So a facilitative right might be the right to hire an attorney if you have the right to a fair trial, for instance.
It's a right that lets you access something else.
So with this framework in mind, let's turn to the question at hand.
We're going to argue that the right to internet access is not comparable to other rights that people have and that it doesn't derive from those sources.
So this is our second point: that there's no comparable right.
Consider that before the existence of the internet, in order to receive the same kind of protection, you would need access to a printing press and a subscription to every publishing catalog in your country.
But we don't see that governments give people a newspaper every day even though it might improve their education, and we don't see that people have access to a free press either in order to print their opinions in the newspaper.
The internet might make it much cheaper to access information or to disperse information, but it's not categorically different from an old-fashioned news press.
And since people very obviously don't have a right to access a newsprint and a news press every day, we don't think that they have the right to access the internet either.
Clearly this right doesn't exist in nature, there are no newspapers, there is no internet, but it also doesn't arise by convention.
I'm not aware of any country in the world where people have the right to use technology to disperse their views, only the right to have different views.
And it's a facilitative right, which is what the last speaker gets at.
He argues that this is facilitative to education, but no more or less so than a newsprint subscription or an encyclopedia, and again we don't see that governments give those to people.
We're fine with having the internet at public schools so that people can learn from it, but we don't think that you have the right to access the internet throughout your life.
Our final argument then is that ultimately this is a tradeoff with other rights.
Sometimes, even if people do have a certain right, if it trades off with a more important right, we don't enforce this.
So even if you don't buy all of my earlier analysis, we think that it would be a poor use of state funds to provide everyone with access to the internet.
Remember that most people who don't have access to the internet now, don't have it because it's prohibitively expensive.
My grandmother lives in a very isolated area, and it would cost a small fortune to run cable out to her home for the internet just so that one old lady could use it.
So no one's paid to do it yet.
In the or in the other side's world, the state would have to provide access to the internet for my grandmother and spend thousands of dollars to give one person access to the internet.
That's money that trades off with more important things such as social security payments or universal health care payments.
So at the end of the day, we think that this trades off with basic rights, such as life or the right to human dignity, and that ultimately, therefore, we don't want to spend this money on internet access.
So we don't think it should be a right.
For all of these reasons, we do not think that the right to internet access should be guaranteed.
Thank you.