Sam tells you that it's very obvious that we should fight against gender inequality.
Unfortunately, I think that he's missed a couple of the more important points in this debate, so I'm going to explain to you why we shouldn't fight against gender inequality.
My first point is about accelerationism.
Now as we all know, the only way to create a fair and just society is to overthrow global capitalism and to destroy the colonial and patriarchal artifacts that go along with it, but when we make life better for people living under capitalism, they're less likely to join revolutionary parties and try to destroy the system from within.
So what we would argue is that if we fight gender inequality, fewer women will become communist guerrillas, and it'll actually take longer for us to achieve the revolution to destroy capitalism, which will ultimately usher in a better world.
And since the world after capitalism will likely be much more egalitarian for women and people from different countries and races, ultimately if you care about helping women, you should want the revolution to be sooner.
And remember that there are infinite women who will be born in the future who will benefit from the revolution, whereas there's a finite number of women today who would benefit from fighting gender inequality.
So if you look at this from a perspective of the numbers, you help many more people by accelerating the pace at which a communist revolution occurs, rather than trying to make life better for people living in the capitalist state right now.
So, I think it's pretty clear at this point that there's no way sam can win the debate, because he's failed to take into account the most basic levels of revolutionary theory.
Our second argument is about sort of the inverse of this: radicalizing men as a result of fighting gender inequality.
I think it's very likely that men will experience a lot of backlash if you fight gender inequality, because the media will present this as zero-sum.
The media's going to say that women being better off hurts men, even though obviously this isn't true, it would be better for everyone.
But as a result, many men are going to be radicalized, especially because of groups on the internet, such as reddit communities, that basically feed people lots of lies and make them hate women and people from different backgrounds.
But right now, we're in a uniquely dangerous time, where there are two very powerful radical groups that these men will join.
The first is neo-nazis, like richard spencer.
These groups have a huge reach in the united states and much of western europe.
They've basically come up with a way to be nazis without getting punched for it and as a result, we think it's quite likely that they're going to be the ones going after these disaffected young men.
So people who right now are just kind of sexist and mean to their girlfriend might become actual nazis because of sam's policy, and I think it's clear that the side of this debate that gets more nazis is going to lose this evening.
But there is potentially an even worse alternative, which is that these men will join isis, because who's the other group besides neo-nazis trying to recruit lots of disaffected young men on the internet right now?
That's right, isis.
And we've already seen that they're doing this in the united states and france and britain and many other countries.
So sam's definitely losing this debate as well, when he's feeding more people into isis recruitment.
People who right now are just kind of average bad dudes are suddenly going to become actual terrorists if we fight against gender inequality in the way that sam describes.
So if you weigh the benefits of having people be more respectful to the women in their lives around them versus the harms of having them become isis fighters who'll go on to kill innocent people and blow up buildings, I think it's very clear that we've won this debate.
So vote for the revolution, and vote against nazis and isis.
Thank you.