Assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
We think that doctors should be permitted, with the patient's consent, to help someone to commit suicide if they're in some sort of terminal illness or other very low quality of life situation.
We have three arguments for our side.
The first is that we think that the right to choose whether to live or to die is a fundamental human right.
We see that people choose to exercise this throughout the world and in literature and that, generally speaking, this is left up to individuals.
While some jurisdictions criminalize suicide, generally speaking this is done purely for formal reason, since there's no way to punish the person committing suicide.
But we think that what's important is that someone's life is ultimately their own, and what to do with it should be up to them, and if that means they want to commit suicide, they ought be able to.
This right should not only be extended to the able-bodied.
People who, because of physical disability, are not able to end their own lives deserve the same amount of control over themselves as anyone else.
And the only way they can access that, in this case, is through physician-assisted suicide and therefore, in order to ensure that these people have equal access to their rights, we ought not criminalize physician-assisted suicide.
Our second argument is about doing the least harm.
Now it's well-known that the hippocratic oath requires doctors to do no harm, but sometimes people are caught in a double bind.
If they continue to provide someone with treatment which is agonizing and prolongs a very low quality of life, then they're harming the person by prolonging that period of suffering.
And if they euthanize someone, then they're also causing a harm in the end of that person's life.
So it's not possible to do no harm, and in that case, we think the best thing for people to do is to defer to doing the least amount of harm.
We think that while this might take different forms in different circumstances, at least sometimes, the least amount of harm will be ending someone's life rather than prolonging their suffering.
So at that point, we think that the most consistent thing with their oaths for doctors to do would be assisted suicide for the patient.
At that point, we ought not criminalize good conduct for doctors which is designed to minimize human suffering.
We ought encourage and reward it, if anything.
Therefore, for this reason as well, this ought not be a criminal offense.
And our third and final point is that it is impossible to rectify this harm in court.
This is a general argument as well against suicide being illegal, because the person who is ending their life cannot be punished.
So when you criminalize assisted suicide, you're going after the doctor, not the person who's passed away obviously.
But because the doctor ultimately is doing what they genuinely believe is in the patient's best interest and what the patient wants them to do, remember that we can require some sort of written informed consent, ultimately we think that it's unfair to go after the doctor, if you think that suicide is something that society ought prevent, you really ought go after the person seeking it out rather than the person who is merely a facilitator.
We think that in this instance, it's unfair to punish the doctor who wasn't the active agent in the assisted suicide since, generally speaking, this will be a doctor providing someone with the means to commit suicide rather than doing it themselves.
So the only way to punish this in court would be to punish the wrong person, and we think that that is fundamentally unfair.
But what's more, this is a victimless crime in the sense that the person who has died is the only person who had a real claim to their life.
So although family and loved ones may be distraught, ultimately it wasn't their life to decide how to dispose with.
So the victim is the person who made this decision and therefore, there is no living victim whom we can help.
For all these reasons, assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
Thank you.