We should not subsidize public service broadcasters.
So we think that channels like PBS in the united states or the BBC in britain should not receive public subsidy.
So we would end federal government payments to PBS.
We would get rid of that tax on televisions that funds the BBC and we would have these channels compete on the free market with everyone else.
Three points for our side.
The first is that while at some point in the past organizations like the BBC may have been important to provide information, today information is so widely available that it's not really necessary for the government to pay to disseminate it.
In other words even if you don't have cable, which danny seems very concerned about in the last speech, you still have access to things like television broadcast over the airwaves in the united states and I would imagine in many other countries as well.
Channels want you to be able to see their programming so that you watch their commercials which means that basic network news like ABC and NBC in the US is available to people free of charge over the airwaves.
This wasn't true sixty, seventy years ago maybe but ultimately it is today so PBS can go by the wayside because that role is being filled by the private market.
And even if you think that people wouldn't be able to access television news, there's no particular right to access news in any one medium.
Ultimately, people can go online and read the news.
They can read the newspaper.
We don't think that this is an undue burden on people.
We also think that it's an individual's responsibility to inform themselves not the government's duty to spoon feed it to them.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make them drink.
Putting information out on PBS doesn't make the populace better educated if they don't want to learn and if they do, then they would seek that out even without PBS.
Our second argument is that this pushes a government narrative.
The problem with news casters like PBS or like the BBC is that the narrative that they present is always going to be one that can't be too critical of the government.
When the government signs your paychecks and makes decisions about hiring, ultimately the people you hire are going to be people who are more sympathetic to the government and people there even if the government is misbehaving, will be aware that they need to report in a relatively positive way in order to keep their jobs.
Now this isn't to say that britain has some sort of north korea style scheme to fire any journalist who is critical of the government but ultimately we think that people who are paid by the government will be more sympathetic towards it than people who are paid privately.
So the comparative is that this is a more pro-government narrative than what you would receive from a purely private broadcaster.
So ultimately, we think that this unfairly privileges one particular narrative at public expense even if that narrative is it actually what most of the public want.
Our third and final point is that we don't think the government should pick winners and losers.
What does it mean to have a subsidy?
Basically, it means that public broadcasters can operate less efficiently and not take certain cuts compared to private broadcasters.
So in other words if you have something like an economic downturn or changes in business that will make it more difficult to make money, public broadcasters are insulated from those problems while private broadcasters have to pivot and deal with them directly.
Ultimately, we think this gives an unfair advantage to those public broadcasters.
It's easier for them to compete than private broadcasters because they're insulated from the cost of doing business.
This is especially obvious for the BBC which really dominates television in the united kingdom.
It wasn't until the last few decades that there was any sort of independent television in the UK of any size and even today the BBC is by far more popular than channels like sky partly because it's so easy for them to do business.
So for all these reasons, we should not subsidize public service broadcasters.
Thank you.