Patriotism does more harm than good.
So by patriotism we mean the love of one's country and the belief that it may be the best country in the world.
Similar things like that.
We see patrias-tism as a phenomenon throughout the world today and throughout history in places like rome, nazi germany and the united states.
And some of these places probably had better and worse outcomes than in others, but we do see that it has occurred in very diverse places with very diverse outcomes.
So we acknowledge that while patriotism may sometimes be good and encourage us to do things like put a man on the moon, it can also be bad and encourage us to invade france, say.
With that in mind we think that we're going to win this round on the comparative by explaining that the harm outweighs the good.
Two arguments: the first is that patriotism is an exclusive narrative.
By its very nature it authorizes anyone who is from outside of your country because the assertion that our country is the best means every other country is not the best.
They're worse than us.
We think that this makes it very difficult for people to relate to foreigners.
When you promote superiority we think that people lose sympathy because they think other people who have problems should just be more like us.
They're less willing to be sympathetic and think about the problems they have and how they're similar to other people and instead more keen to blame them for things that might not be their fault.
This is likely to build resentment.
Particularly in multi ethnic countries.
In a country like the united states, for instance, where tens and tens of millions of people were born in another country, telling them that the united states is the best country in the world and superior to their home is likely to breed resentment.
So we think that it's likely that you will get less integration of immigrants because of patriotism, and on top of that, the people around the world will resent this narrative.
If a country tells its citizens that they are better than the citizens of other nations that seems like a relatively poor way to make friends and a good way to have other people dislike you.
So at the end of the day we think that this exclusive narrative is likely to lead to conflict within and without a country.
Within a country it's likely to lead to conflict between different ethnic groups or people who have connections to other countries, and externally we think it's likely to lead to conflict with other countries because you're less likely to be sympathetic to their citizens, more likely to be willing to go to war with them, and because other countries will be more likely to seek out conflict with you, because they resent the narratives that you promote about themselves and yourself.
At this point I think it's clear that patriotism does more harm than good.
Even if patriotism gives something to feel proud of, even if it brings people together within a country, the divisiveness that it calls externally ultimately is going to outweigh that benefit and the risk of conflict is always going to outweigh a slight increase in national unity.
So our second point is that patriotism is a fundamentally false narrative.
We tell you that no country in the world is the best country, no country in the world is uniquely superior to all others, even if every country is probably really good at one thing or a few things.
We think that patriotism encourages people to overlook the shortcomings in their home country.
If you believe that you're the best country in the world you're probably more willing to accept things that are actually unacceptable.
For instance, if your government chooses not to invest in infrastructure, while telling you that this is the best damn country in the world and you should be proud of it, then you're less likely to demand that they invest in that infrastructure because you're already the best.
We think that this leads to an environment of limited criticism.
Anyone who attacks legitimate problems in the state is likely to be seen as unpatriotic.
This will lead to a backlash from other citizens.
Perhaps it'll jeopardize their status in the workplace, perhaps it could even lead to violence against them as some sort of fifth columnist or traitor.
We think at this patriotism also gives people unrealistic expectations for their country.
They might rush into wars expecting to win very quickly when actually they're unable to do so.
That certainly happened throughout history.
Or they might expect that certain outcomes of policies will occur even if their government isn't spending money or resources in a way that would make those a likely outcome.
We think this is a huge tool for leaders to abuse their people because they can use patriotism to avoid solving problems and they can use it to stir up trouble, to create resentment against other countries, etcetera, and ultimately channels people's attention away from legitimate problems in their own country to external boogie men by using the sort of proto-jingoistic narrative in the form of patriotism.
For these reasons we think that patriotism does more harm than good.