We should not ban scientology.
On our side of the house we would argue that it would be preferable to arrest individuals who are scientologists and have committed crimes rather than banning the entire group.
It's true that the church of scientology has conspired to commit crimes against the US government, but we think that it would always be preferable to punish the individuals who planned those operations or who took part in them rather than to collectively punish the entire church by banning it and discriminating against that religion.
That leads nicely into the first of our two arguments which is about why we can't ban a religious group.
I'm going to argue that you can't scrutinize people's belief.
There's no way you can determine whether someone genuinely holds a particular religious belief.
The only thing you can do is ask them and see if they're involved in a religious group.
I think it would be fair for the government to say that someone doesn't hold a genuine religious belief if they don't follow the tenants of that religion in an obvious way.
For instance, if you had someone who never goes to church and who does lots of things that are forbidden by christianity, perhaps you could scrutinize their belief in that case.
But if you have someone who goes to church every sunday and follows all of the tenets of their church, then I don't think the government is in a position to say this person doesn't genuinely believe that or this person genuinely believes this.
Similarly, although the church of scientology is certainly less familiar than mainstream christianity, I don't think that we can scrutinize whether people hold a genuine belief.
Essentially it's just going to be a matter of every individual judge's opinion whether the church of scientology is a legitimate religion or whether everyone who's a member of this church, all the thousands of people, are faking it for some sort of unknown reason.
I think it's much more likely that maybe there are cynical people within the church but also many people who genuinely believe in its teachings than that millions of people or thousands, however many there are, are faking all of this for some unforeseen benefit for celebrities.
With that in mind, we can't ban scientology because it is a legitimate religion, even if it's one that many people find distasteful.
And our second argument is that it's arbitrary to target one antisocial religion when there are many others in society.
It's true that the church of scientology preys on people who are vulnerable and has committed crimes in the past, but they're far from the only religion that does bad things.
We would argue that many much more tolerated groups like seventh day adventists also do certain bad things in society.
For instance shunning people in order to incentivize them not to leave the church or jehovah's witnesses who teach their children that it's really bad to say the pledge of allegiance or have any loyalty to their country for instance.
Most people find these religions somewhat distasteful and wish that they wouldn't do those things and some people might even want to ban them by saying that their values go too much against the interest of mainstream society.
So it seems arbitrary in that case to pick on the church of scientology when the only offense that they've committed is that they're not as well established and as closely connected to mainstream religion as other distasteful religious groups in the united states.
You can't just let the westboro baptist church run around picketing soldiers' funerals and then ban the church of scientology for taking advantage of some gullible los angelinos who get tricked into going into their group.
At the end of the day I think that you need to take the same position with similar issues, otherwise the law is being arbitrary and unfair and there's no reason that people should buy into it.
And if you punish the church of scientology but no other group it seems to me that you are being arbitrary and that that's unacceptable.
For all of these reasons and many more we should not ban the church of scientology.
Thank you.