We should abandon gmail.
So, gmail probably needs no introduction.
It's google's email service and it's very popular, because it's free to use and offers lots of storage, and by abandon, we mean that people should move to other email providers that take a firmer stance on one's privacy and security.
So our our first argument is that google harvests our data from gmail.
It's a well-known fact that google is really an ad company that happens to provide all these services to get us to look at ads.
Google doesn't make any money off of you checking your inbox if you aren't looking at ads every time you do.
The same applies to google search and many of their other services.
Ultimately, the way that google make so much money is that they take data from your emails and your search preferences and use them to target better ads to you.
In other words, they do a better job than other providers at figuring out what you want to see, but the way that they do that is by reading your email.
No, I'm not saying that there's some intern who can look at your email right now and see, " oh, well, this person's going to canada next month and he just bought a pair of shoes. "
Rather, it's that they use metadata from your email, such as keywords or who you email, in order to determine what you might like to see.
But this is a huge violation of our privacy.
Most people don't really understand how this metadata works and don't realize how much information google is able to access about them.
But moreover, we tell you that no one should really have to use a service or ought use a service where they can't choose to opt out of the spying.
The only way to get away from having your data harvested and misused by google would ultimately be to use a different service.
And there have been many people who have had harmful effects of looking at certain ads, such as people who have been outed as being gay, because google starts displaying ads about, you know, homosexual websites and things like that, based on their emails or search preferences.
So there are real world effects that this can have that we ought avoid.
And our second argument is about how this affects the way we interact with our government.
As is now well-known at this point, the US government spends an astronomical amount of time and money spying on people not only in america, but in various countries around the world.
Yet, the US government doesn't have any way to collect data if we don't freely give it away to corporations.
It's not like the NSA is sitting in a black van outside my apartment right now, listening to me talk to IBM.
Rather, they look at the things that I google and they get that information by the company's cooperation in many instances.
So if the government wants to know, for instance, if I'm a risk of joining isis, I guess that's not a big problem anymore, but historically, then they might ask google to turn over my search records and my emails so that they can get that metadata in order to see if I am the type of person who might be at risk of going to syria to join isis.
Ultimately, this government spying simply could not happen if we used other companies' email services.
There are plenty of email services that refuse to cooperate with NSA spying efforts, unlike google.
First of all, we ought reward these companies for doing a civic service by refusing to cooperate with quasi-legal and certainly socially-damaging spying efforts.
But moreover, these companies will go away if no one patronizes them and all we'll be left with is companies like google that freely interact with the NSA and just give them all of our data.
But moreover, the whole government spying apparatus, as it exists right now, would just be untenable if hundreds of millions of people switched over to other email services.
So this would reduce the incentive for them to put so much effort into spying on us online, which would ultimately protect our privacy and make us more free.
So because google harvests our data and because the NSA abuses that data, we should abandon gmail.
Thank you.