We should not cancel the patriot act.
So I want to be very clear what this debate is about.
We're not arguing if, back in two thousand one, congress should've passed the patriot act in the first place.
We're talking about today, in twenty seventeen, whether it would be a good idea to repeal the patriot act.
And I'd like to remind you that donald trump is the president, unfortunately, for at least the next few years, and that the republicans control the house and senate and are generally more conservative than they were in two thousand one and more supportive of the military and the surveillance state than they were in two thousand one.
So those are the material factors you have to consider as we go into this debate.
That said, two arguments for our side.
Our first point is that even if the patriot act shouldn't have gone into effect in two thousand one, its replacement today would likely be even worse.
Over the last few decades, people have gotten used to the patriot act.
It's become a part of our everyday lives to know that our phone calls are being recorded, to know that when you go to the airport, you're going to be groped by the TSA, to know that you're not allowed to carry certain things on trains.
Ultimately, people have gotten used to this kind of everyday intrusion by the government and the surveillance state into our lives, as opposed to in two thousand one, when this was an outrage and seen as something very radical.
What was radical then is normal now, which means that a replacement that's radical by our standards, and I'll explain why that'll happen in a minute, would be even worse than what we have today.
It's quite likely that we would see new bills passed that would give much more sweeping and vague powers to secret courts or to the TSA and the NSA.
So, ultimately, we think that this would actually make people's lives less free.
And as for why we think it's the case that the replacement would necessarily be worse, it's because donald trump cares less about your freedom than george bush does, it's frightening to say.
It's because the republican party has become much more polarized, much more pro-surveillance state than they were in the early two thousands.
At that time, many republicans had certain an unwillingness to support the surveillance state, because they thought that it wouldn't actually help the american people or because they were worried about freedom.
But now, the republicans' definition of conservatism has changed, to put that charitably, and they're willing to do anything in order to maintain the favor of the american people.
And since the american people support donald trump and have voted him into power and continue to support him, despite what the times tells you, it seems likely that the republican house and senate would pass even more radical bills in order to feed on this kind of islamophobic narrative and other harmful narratives that go throughout our society today.
So even if it shouldn't have been passed, the alternative that they would create today would be much worse.
And our second argument is that obscuring the removing the patriot act would obscure the surveillance state.
Right now, since the snowden leaks, the american people have a pretty good idea of how the secret state apparatuses of surveillance work.
We know, for instance, that the NSA records all of our phone calls and all of our browsing history, that they take photos of us when we're in public, that kind of thing.
But remember that before snowden, everyone laughed at people who said this was going on and called it a conspiracy theory.
We're living in a unique time, where people are under intense surveillance but also have been made aware of that surveillance, and no one really contests it after snowden.
So what happens when you remove the patriot act is that new mechanisms are put into place, nobody believes in the new mechanisms, we see historically that people are unwilling to do so, and so people go back to being unaware of the surveillance going on all around them.
We would prefer that if we live in the panopticon, that we are aware of the panopticon, that if we're constantly being surveilled, that we understand the mechanisms by which we're surveilled, rather than one in which we live in ignorance.
For all these reasons, we should not cancel the patriot act.
Thank you.