We should subsidize wikipedia.
So we think that in this debate we're talking about some private groups like universities and religious organizations offering funds to wikipedia, and also perhaps state, local and even national governments offering funds as well.
One thing we would say though is that because wikipedia refuses sponsorship, and in order to preserve wikipedia's independence, that all of these donations should be made anonymously.
So perhaps while it would still be known that there is a line item in the new york state budget for wikipedia, that ultimately wikipedia itself would act as though all the donations were anonymous.
With that in mind we have two main reasons why we think wikipedia should be subsidized.
The first is that the website is a public good for all mankind.
One of the most important things about wikipedia is that it's very accessible everywhere around the globe.
In the last decade high speed mobile internet has made many people more connected than they ever were in the past.
Even people in very poor countries, that don't have access to conventional phone lines and internet media, like the central african republic say, have pretty high rates of mobile penetration.
Because it's relatively easy to build mobile towers and smartphones are much cheaper than any other type of computer or similar technology.
This means that young people especially around the globe have access to wikipedia.
And because the website is available in all the most popular languages, like english, french and others, it's something that's available even to people who don't have the educational privilege to learn a given language.
With this means is that it's not only useful for european and american school children but also for people who don't get to go to school because their country is poor or war torn.
So this is something that really benefits people around the globe.
But not only is it valuable because of the access to information but also for the information that it provides.
Because wikipedia isn't sponsored by any one group or organization they can be devoted to having very high organizational standards for the truth.
Which means that they can publish information on things like the US government mistreating its citizens, that might not be published in other american encyclopedias.
And if that's true or western countries, it's even more true for dictatorships or countries with low access to information.
So that they can publish information about things like to choose a good example, the way the PRC treats its citizens, that's available in the people's republic of china, even if the government tries to censor it.
So ultimately wikipedia offers the truth to people who otherwise wouldn't have a chance to get that truth.
And we think that access to the truth is a human right and moreover, that it creates a more tolerant global society when people are able to read about others and learn the truth and empathize with them.
And our second argument is that providing subsidies to wikipedia ensures its continuance and security.
If you visited wikipedia in the last few months I'm sure you've seen the banners asking for people to make donations.
And if you haven't done so I hope that you will go make a donation after this speech.
We think that ultimately the only way to prevent wikipedia from becoming dependent on one large donor who can dictate policy and undermine that openness we just talked about, it's through many groups to get involved and funding wikipedia.
Relying on individual kindness clearly isn't working.
So we think that it's up to churches and universities and schools and other small institutional donors to make sure that wikipedia remains available, and that if you have this kind of patchwork funding no one group will ever be influential enough to change wikipedia and undermine its mission.
So ultimately we think that that's the ideal world.
Is one in which many small donors take on the honors of funding wikipedia.
For all of these reasons we should subsidize wikipedia.
Thank you.