We should not subsidize public transportation.
So, what we're talking about in this debate is things like subsidize subway fares, bus fares, train fares as tim just told you.
We're not talking about things like building new subway lines.
We think that that's still happens on both sides of the house because that's not really a subsidy so much as a state infrastructure investment.
So we're talking about subsidy at the point of use.
Three arguments for why we should not have this: first, we think that state spending should be allocated according to individual need.
Basically the principle we would support for funding and spending with the government is from each according to their ability to each according to their need.
We see that people are taxed according to their income, we think that spending should also be proportional to income.
When you subsidize public transit though, the money doesn't get allocated to the most needy people in society.
It's certainly true that there are people in poor areas of new york city who would benefit from having cheaper subway fare, but at the same time very wealthy people living in the upper west side and places like that would also benefit from this.
We think that it is unethical for the state to spend on policies that aren't means tested.
If the other side would advocate for having this be means tested, even them we think that it would be better to subsidize things like housing, which are actually more essential human needs, than transportation.
We just don't think that this is a, going to go to the neediest people, or b, be important to fulfill the most basic needs that people have.
And we think that as long as there are people who are going without housing, without adequate food, without education, that it would be unjust for the state to focus on subsidizing transportation.
Our second argument is that this gives unfair subsidies to certain businesses.
If you subsidize public transit in place of roads and other modes of transit, businesses along public transportation lines benefit.
So, coffee shops, say around a train station are going to benefit from the increased ridership whereas a coffee shop at the intersection of two streets wouldn't see any benefit.
Effectively we think that this amounts to corporate welfare.
You are pumping lots of money into certain businesses who aren't contributing especially more than any other business to society.
We don't think government ought pick winners and losers.
We think that businesses ought compare compete as freely as possible so that the best businesses win out.
When you subsidize public transit, you effectively make it more difficult for businesses that aren't located at public transit stops to succeed, and when you change the way that people commute you make it harder for employers who built their buildings or their offices, through no fault of their own, in areas that were more accessible by car the by train, and you make it harder for them to attract employees.
So we think that effectively this gives an unfair advantage to certain businesses over others and that therefore it is unjust.
Our final argument is that this won't improve access to public transit and that right now access to public transit is extremely problematic.
I live in boston.
In boston we see that much of the public transit infrastructure isn't aimed at helping the poorest neighborhoods, it's aimed at helping middle class neighborhoods instead.
For instance, in the nineteen seventies the city tore down an elevated train and replaced it replaced it with the subway that went through a much wealthier area.
The reason why this happens is that the people with the most political clout are middle class voters, not low income voters.
What that means is that when you subsidize public transit, the access is going to remain only for people who can afford to live near existing transit centers which tend not to be built to help low income people.
We don't think there's any incentive to build more public transit near low income people just because of subsidies it's true that they might be more willing to ride the train if they were more able to afford it but at the end of the day those people still don't have enough of a voice in government to demand that trains or subways or buses be installed in their neighborhoods.
So we think that the put this won't improve access that a better use of our money would be to subsidize the construction of public transit for low income people.
For these reasons we should not subsidize public transportation.
Thank you.