Global warming is a major threat.
So we have two main points, but before I get into that, I think some definitions will be useful for this debate.
When we say global warming we mean man made climate change, and when we say is a major threat, we think that this poses an existential threat to the human species.
So I think that when we have this debate, our side is going to defend that this is an existential threat, and the other side has to defend that it is not an existential threat.
So two points.
The first is about sea levels, and the second is about agriculture.
So with regard to sea levels, most people around the world, according to the united nations, live very close to the coast.
If you think about cities like shanghai or singapore or new york or london, they are all very close to the sea.
There are entire countries, most notably bangladesh, which are entirely at sea level.
With this means is that when, due to global warming, the ice caps in greenland and iceland begin to melt and the sea levels begin to rise, millions of people are going to lose their homes and be displaced.
So let's think about bangladesh.
It's one of the most populous countries in the world, it's due to pass two hundred million people, and due to global warming it is likely that the entire country is eventually going to be under water.
Almost the entire country is part of one large river delta, which means that it's basically at sea level.
So what happens when hundreds of millions of people in countries like bangladesh, and around the world more generally, are displaced?
It is going to lead to a type of conflict which has never been seen before in human history.
If you imagine that for instance, the roman empire was overthrown because a few thousand people wanted to move into the empire because of shifting conditions in northern europe, imagine what will happen to civilization today when hundreds of millions of people need to be resettled.
Countries like india for instance, are not in a position to take these people in.
We don't think that there is space for them in most countries around the world, and ultimately, we think that the reason why these people live near the coast is that it's the best place to live right now.
So we're going to lose out on some of the best places to live around the world.
There's nowhere to settle these people, and it's going to lead to massive conflicts that will mean the end of civilization as we know it, and that's not speaking hyperbolically.
We've seen that mass migrations in the past led to the fall of the roman empire, of chinese dynasties, of indian dynasties, and we are in a position where we face the same thing today on a scale hundreds of times worse than anything seen in the past, and if that isn't an existential threat to humanity, I don't know what is.
Our second point is about agriculture.
Recognize that the only reason why we're able to support billions of people in the world today is that we've been able to genetically engineer certain crops that produce lots and lots of food.
Now, what these crops rely on is being able to grow in certain environments.
The most productive soils and the most productive environments are also the ones that are at threat from global climate change.
So think about a region like the central united states, where lots and lots of food is grown for export.
Millions of people around the world, billions probably, are dependent on places like iowa and illinois and corn production in order to feed animals and people.
So due to global warming, these areas are gradually going to get too warm for good corn production, and what's more, rain patterns and wind patterns are going to shift so that they lose their fertility.
Now, the other team might see that we can just farm areas further north, like central canada.
But the soils in those regions are not the same as the soils in the current grain producing regions.
Central canada, for instance, has very acidic soils that wouldn't produce as much corn as the soils of places like illinois and iowa.
This is catastrophic because it means that the food security of the entire human race is at risk due to global climate change.
Again, this is puts us at risk of famines on a scope that have never been seen in history, and that must be the kind of existential threat to humanity that we're talking about in this debate, when billions of people will have to go without food because our food producing regions will no longer be fertile.
So at the end of the day, global warming is a major threat, an existential threat to humanity, because of rising sea levels, and because it will damage our agriculture.
Thank you.