We should not disband the united nations.
While I will be the first to admit that the UN has fallen short of the vision that was held for it after world war two, ultimately the world is better off for the existence of the united nations than it would be without it and therefore we ought maintain it.
Our first argument is about conflict resolution.
Because of the united nations security council every country in the world has the opportunity to express their opinion on matters of international importance.
The UN security council does a great job balancing the interest of the most powerful countries who have to be considered in every situation and other countries who are less powerful but still deserve some input.
So because the US, britain, france, russia, and china always get input on security crises ultimately no decision is ever made which would back one of them into a corner.
This means that the great powers of the world who could do tremendous damage if they were to go to war against one another have never entered into a conflict since world war two.
But the UN security council is also important because it lets other smaller more regional powers like india or brazil enter on to the council in rotation and help to make decisions which ultimately reflect the interests of other countries in their area and not just these great powers.
Is it a perfect system?
Far from it, but it's better than the ad hoc system of treaties and negotiations we had before which were rarely multilateral and rarely included small countries.
I can't imagine a situation in which a country like bangladesh would ever be included in international conflict disputes that didn't involve bangladesh without an organization like the security council.
So this gives a voice to countries which otherwise would have none and has worked successfully to prevent another great power war since world war two.
Our second point is about why many of the UN organizations are highly effective even if the general assembly is not.
Groups like unicef and unesco do a huge amount of good around the world even if the UN is kind of irrelevant in terms of what the general assembly wants it to do.
Unesco, for instance, has done more work to protect human culture around the world than any other organization in history.
They protected thousands of archaeological sites, helped countries to find ways to preserve their own culture and heritage for the common good, spent billions of dollars to digitize ancient or religious documents and to ensure that things won't be lost in future conflicts or due to the ravages of time.
So anytime you visit famous ancient building or read something that was written hundreds of years ago you may owe that to unesco and the hard work that they do and organizations like unicef which works to promote children's interest worldwide provide a voice to people who otherwise lack one.
The UN has done a huge amount to promote the rights of children and women worldwide in countries where the culture is not to respect those groups.
In doing so they've helped to change culture around the world such that generally things are improving for women and children even in countries which traditionally have not respected their rights very much.
So these organizations are worthwhile to keep around and wouldn't exist without the united nations and the last thing I'd point out is that the UN has a powerful symbolic value.
While it's true that the united nations is not anything like a world government and can't actually do that much day to day to change people's lives, the symbolism that countries are coming together and working together as one for a common interest is really powerful.
Everyone in the world, in theory, has some sort of representation at the united nations and it's the only body that encourages people from all different countries and all different nations to come together except for maybe the olympics but that's quite a different thing.
So the symbolic value of the united nations as a peaceful way for countries to work together is tremendously valuable.
For all these reasons, we should not disband the united nations.
Thank you.