We should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
This is, of course, the second amendment to the united states constitution.
Over the last two hundred and some odd years, the US constitution has been interpreted in very different ways from what was originally intended when the document was written.
There are huge debates between people who think that we should interpret the constitution according to the original will of the founding fathers and those who think that we should see it as a living document and adapt it to suit our current times.
Ironically, the conservatives, who usually favor an originalist view of the constitution, tend to take a much more interpretive version of the second amendment whereas liberals, who normally want to interpret the constitution to suit themselves, want to take a very originalist view of the second amendment.
So we're going to talk about why the second amendment should be abolished with those things in mind.
Ultimately, our first concern about the right to bear arms is the huge amount of externalities that it has.
There's always a tradeoff between individual freedom and the effects that it has on the community and we think that in the case of the right to bear arms, the balance has queerly clearly swung to the point that the harms to others outweigh the benefits to individuals.
It's true that many people who own guns are responsible and law-abiding but at the same time, the biggest problem the united states has with gun violence is not lunatics shooting up hotels in las vegas, and it's not people stealing illegal guns and using them to commit gang violence as the media would tell you, the biggest problem is actually suicide.
One reason why the US has a very high rate of successful suicides compared to other countries is that guns are extremely easy to access and very easy to use compared to other suicide methods.
So a huge part of the suicide epidemic is the fact that people have easy access to guns.
Now someone might say that this is an individual choice, but hopefully we can all agree that suicide is a health problem and that we need to remove something that is taking important members of our community away from us, namely guns in this instance, during this mental health epidemic.
But at the same time, guns absolutely are a huge reason why the US has such a high murder rate.
In a country like germany, where it's hard to get guns, it's just harder to murder someone.
So it's not that there aren't criminals in cities like berlin and paris and london, it's that those criminals don't have tec-nines, they have knives, and it's much more difficult to kill people that way.
At the end of the day, a major reason why the US has much more dangerous cities than any of its peer countries is because of the proliferation of firearms.
So we don't think that any individual can have a right to own a gun if it puts other people's lives at extreme risk.
Now, gun defenders will say, " oh, owning a car puts people's lives at risk, " but it's clearly not the same because the only purpose that a gun serves is to harm others whereas anything else that people own has a more constructive purpose.
But aside from all of these massive external harms that guns have, we also just think that the second amendment has been wildly misconstrued and needs to be reworded.
At the time when the US was founded, there was no national military so the individual states, think massachusetts or new york, had to provide a militia to protect the country if the british came back.
Ultimately, this proved to be an impossible way to defend the country and a military was formed, but that's why the right to bear arms exists.
And in the second amendment, they even mention a well-regulated militia.
Ultimately, the intent was never that individuals would be able to have any gun they want, although that may have been the case in seventeen eighties, but rather to have a well-regulated militia.
And because of changes in our society that the constitution has not kept up with, it's clear that we need to do something to ensure that the second amendment is not used as an excuse to harm other people.
For all these reasons, we should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
Thank you.