We should cancel the patriot act.
By this we mean that the united states congress should repeal the patriot act.
For a little bit of background: the patriot act is a law that was created in this country shortly after the september eleventh attacks in two thousand one.
It vastly expanded the domestic security apparatus and created many institutions and agencies that are now familiar in american life.
Whereas before the patriot act, there was relatively little domestic surveillance of US citizens, today it is routine and extremely commonplace in every aspect of our lives, as we've learned from the snowden leaks.
So with that in mind, I have two main arguments for why we should cancel the patriot act through a full repeal.
The first thing I'm going to do is explain how the patriot act has failed to achieve its goals.
When the bush administration rammed through the patriot act, they did so claiming that it would protect us from terrorism but, in fact, it hasn't done any such thing.
Terror attacks have remained relatively commonplace in the united states, because they have nothing to do with what the patriot act prevents.
Most terror attacks in this country, or a plurality I should say, are conducted by either far-right extremists or these militiamen who generally live out west and conduct mass shootings and other attacks.
For instance, a group of these militiamen took over some federally-owned land out west a couple of years ago and shot at federal agents who tried to remove them.
That's the shape that terror normally takes in the united states.
It's not mostly muslim.
There're actually many more political terrorists than there are religious-based terrorists, and overwhelmingly, terrorists are white men not arabs, as the patriot act would have you believe.
So we haven't seen a decrease in terror attacks, and if there hasn't been another nine eleven, well that was already an extraordinary event, why should we expect there to be another nine eleven?
We should repeal the patriot act because it hasn't done anything to make us safer, and the other team in this debate needs to explain to you how it does so, when the rate of terror attacks has remained essentially the same.
But next, I want to talk about how the patriot act has actually made all of our lives worse.
Due to the patriot act, almost all of us are being surveilled every day, and all of our data is kept by the vastly expanded NSA.
This surveillance cost a fortune and has undermined our ability to express our political or other beliefs without being spied on by our government.
In effect, the united states is now a high-tech benevolent surveillance state.
What that means is that if a future administration or, god help us all, the current one were to choose to use this data to go after political opponents or reviled minority or other group, it would be very easy for them to do so.
We should all be suspicious when our governments demand more information about us, because we've seen in countries like germany and serbia and the soviet union how this kind of information can be abused in order to remove people's civil liberties, even if it's initially connected with good intentions.
But moreover, it's also introduced huge inconveniences to our lives.
I didn't fly personally before the patriot act.
I'm too young.
But it used to be that going through the airport didn't involve being groped by a security agent and stared down by men with machine guns, the way it often does today.
Things like the TSA, the american airport security agency, didn't exist before the patriot act.
What the patriot act has done has extended this surveillance state not only into our virtual lives, but into our everyday lives as well.
It removes our freedoms through gradual erosion.
The patriot act is the first step in a long road to losing our civil liberties, but it is actively threatening them as we speak.
Ultimately, we run the risk of the united states ceasing to be a free and open society if we don't repeal laws that make it a less free and less open society.
Thank you.