We should not abolish needle exchange programs.
So we're going to break this round down into three big points.
The first is about the duties of the state.
We think that governments have an obligation to help ill people.
We see that governments around the world provide health care and that organizations like the UN with their declaration of human rights guarantee that people have a basic human right to healthcare.
And we tell you that drug addiction is a disease.
Nobody wakes up in the morning and says, gee I really wish I was addicted to heroin.
People who are drug addicts are in that position because they have certain personality traits that put them at greater risk of addiction and because society has failed to protect them from this possible situation we think that drug addicts need care not punishment and that ultimately on our side we better provide that care.
But on top of that we think that we also minimize public expenses.
Clearly the government needs to use public money in the most efficient way possible and it's much less expensive to give people needles than to give them forty five years of HIV pills.
At the end of the day the comparative in this debate is between fewer people with HIV and aids on our side versus more people with HIV and aids on the other side and clearly the government has an incentive to limit the spread of this disease so that they don't have to spend as much of the public's money on treating it.
But aside from that we tell you that government should pursue affected policies and that needle exchanges in cities like san francisco have been very effective at reducing the spread of blood borne diseases like HIV aids and also at protecting the addict population from one another and from violence.
We think that the state cannot just say that certain people are no longer subject to the social contract.
No one ops into the social contract first of all, so we think it's unfair to just kick them out and aside from that lots of people who are addicts pay taxes and have jobs.
It's not like every single person who uses IV drugs is just lying out in the street somewhere in san francisco.
That's just not accurate.
A lot of these people if you met them you would never know that they use these types of drugs, but we think that these programs should still be available for their safety in an emergency.
Because even one time re-using a needle or sharing a needle could lead to the spread of HIV aids.
So our second point is about ethics and we're fine with the deontological framework set up by the last speaker.
We think that there is a moral imperative to save lives.
Recognize that if everyone in the world decided that they wanted to save people's lives, that the world would be a better place.
So at that point we think everyone probably should try to do this and necessarily fewer people die from blood borne illnesses on our side.
There's also very little cost to this, so there are few trade offs.
We think it's inexcusable, therefore, not to save people's lives.
And lastly: if you imagine that you were behind a magical veil that took away all of your knowledge about who you are as a person, you didn't know if you were a male or female, if you were american or canadian, if you were a drug addict or not a drug addict, we think that you would want this policy.
And the reason why is behind the veil you would see that the cost to every individual is very low to provide these needle exchanges but the cost of having HIV is extremely high for some people and given the possibility that you might have HIV you would want this policy to exist.
Our last argument is about better for third parties.
So we think first of all that this saves the public money, as I said before, so this is obviously good for everybody.
But on top of that we think that most people probably know somebody who is a drug addict.
We think that if this was your cousin or your sister or your daughter you would probably want that person to have access to safe needles rather than to be reusing ones that other drug addicts have been using and potentially getting really risky diseases.
We think that access to clean needles makes it easier for drug addicts to be functional members of society.
If you know that in a pinch you always have access to them it's probably easier to hold down a job and things like that because you won't get ill.
And aside from that we tell you that there's going to be less spread of HIV aids.
Recognize that one of the main ways that this awful disease spreads is through people sharing needles not just through sexual contact.
We tell you that at the point where more HIV aids in the general population increases the risk that any one person gets the disease whether through sexual contact or any other way, ultimately it's clearly in everyone's best interest to try to limit its potential spread, to try to limit the amount of people in the population who have the disease.
So at that point, because we limit the spread of HIV aids using these policies, and this has clearly been demonstrated in cities like san francisco, I think it's clear that we should not abolish needle exchange programs.
Thank you.