We should not abolish algorithmic trading.
So we think that investors should be free to use computer programs to make decisions especially for things like day trading.
We have two arguments for our side.
The first is that banning algorithmic trading is an arbitrary punishment of some investors.
Many people have invested a huge amount of capital and effort into developing algorithmic trading techniques and many companies are based around this.
These people and companies have acted in good faith because this has been legal in the united states and many other countries during this period.
So we think that if you pass this law you're punishing people unfairly who acted in good faith while rewarding people who have failed to adapt to the new ways that investment works.
We don't think that government should pick winners and losers or that basically luddite should be able to decide what is and is not good for investment which is what this is tantamount to doing.
It is punishing technological advancement for its own sake when in fact this isn't really harming anyone.
We think that the particular reason why governments ought not step in to punish investors who are using algorithmic trading is because these people have actually created huge growth for the general public.
Funds have been able to spend less money on hiring traders and brokers and therefore return more money to their investors as a result of adopting this algorithmic trading.
So this is actually done a service to small investors, retirees, and other people who have benefited from this and we think that those companies deserve to be deserve to be allowed to continue to practice their business as they see fit especially because of the social goods that they're performing.
Our second argument is that this offers an incentive to invest elsewhere.
Sam tells you that every western country should adopt these policies but we tell you that even if this were the case, which seems unlikely because there's a huge incentive for one country to be the hold out in order to attract investment from people who want algorithmic trading, but even if all of north america and europe were to pass this, we think that other markets like singapore that are in less liberal countries would just attract hugely more investment.
After all, if you are an investment firm and you want to invest in international companies you can do that in singapore or in beijing every bit as well as in new york or london.
So we think that if anything investors will turn to other markets that allow this kind of automated trading because it's so much in their interest.
After all, if it weren't in their interest they wouldn't do it in america or britain.
So therefore you're going to actually lose investment in these countries if you have a ban algorithmic trading.
Why is that so problematic?
First of all the ability to attract foreign capital into your country is a huge part of why countries like the US are so wealthy.
It's very easy for businesses to raise capital because people want to invest there and one reason is that they have so much freedom in how and when they invest.
So we think that if you limit that freedom you make it a less appealing destination for foreign investment which ultimately undermines a lot of the advantage that countries like the US or britain have over other countries in terms of investment.
This would ultimately harm the citizens of those countries because it would make it more expensive for businesses to raise capital which will be passed on to the consumers of in those countries in the form of higher costs for products and services.
So ultimately banning algorithmic trading would hurt everyone in the economy not just traders, not just businesses.
But I think that aside from that, another reason that this would create an incentive to invest elsewhere is that it changes the regulatory culture of a country.
It's a move away from letting people invest freely however they want and towards a more heavily regulated form of market.
Which means that there's less room for creativity which ultimately incentivizes the best investors to look elsewhere where their skills can be used better.
For all these reasons, we should not ban algorithmic trading.
Thank you.