We should not further tighten gun control laws.
So, this is a debate that's somewhat difficult to have without any specific location, but I'll try to be broad in my general arguments.
The first thing I'd like to talk about is how this limits individual freedom, without commensurate benefits.
Let's talk about when it's okay for the state to limit people's freedoms.
We think that, generally speaking, when there's a lack of access to information or when there are harms to a third party, the government should step in to limit individual choice.
Now, when people purchase guns, we don't think there's any sort of lack of access to information.
Every adult who's going to go buy a gun has a pretty good idea of what they do, and we can require people in most jurisdictions to certify that they actually know how to safely use and clean a gun before they buy it.
So we think at that point, there's no lack of access to information, and in terms of harms to third parties, the problem for the other side in this debate is that while, yes, it's true guns harm third parties when they're used against them, that doesn't really change just because you tighten the law, because gangsters and drug cartels and mafiosos are not going to stop using guns in their crimes to hurt people, no matter what the law is.
In fact, in countries like britain, where you already have strict gun control, organized crime just brings guns in from other countries.
And in the united states, where you have relatively lax gun laws, most of the guns used in crimes are actually stolen or have been taken from someone's home, rather than being purchased legally from a store, in the criminal's name.
So, while there are third party harms, the law doesn't actually prevent them.
So you're limiting someone's freedom to buy a gun with this policy, without any commensurate benefit to other people.
So at that point, I think it's clear that the government ought stand aside and not get involved in the situation, that it would be unjust for them to do so.
Our second argument is about the public will.
Right now we tell you, in liberal democracies, that people have the ability to change gun control laws by voting on them but that they choose not to do so.
So, for instance, in the united states, where this is probably the most contentious, people choose to elect pro-gun politicians every election.
Even though people could choose to change the second amendment or encourage lawmakers to regulate guns more closely, they don't want them to.
And in a liberal country, ultimately, the legitimacy of the state comes from following the will of the people.
So if the people will less strict gun controls, then we ought not have more strict gun controls, because that would be the state acting contrary to the interests of the people it relies on.
So we think that, ultimately, because there's no evidence that most people in most liberal democracies want stricter gun control laws than they already have, that ultimately those laws ought not be implemented.
And our third and final point is about economic effects this would have.
Many western countries, even those you don't normally think of as being especially warlike, have large arms industries.
And we think that when you impose strict gun control laws, you harm your domestic arms industry.
For instance, if american gun companies had a more difficult time selling weapons in the united states, that would incentivize them to go to other countries where they would be able to better tap a domestic market, and it would also harm them overall in terms of their ability to compete with other companies, since they would lose access to this domestic market that they've traditionally relied upon.
So we think that this would have a negative effect on those companies and also on secondary industries that depend upon them, whether that be ammunition, gun ranges, gun stores.
Ultimately, a large sector of the economy could be affected by stricter gun controls.
So this would have a real effect on people's ability to make their livelihood, and we think that it's unfair to punish those people.
So for all these reasons, we should not to further tighten gun control laws.
Thank you.