We should not further exploit small modular reactors.
Contrary to what tim told you, we think that this would be bad for two reasons: one, that it's actually not a good fuel source, which will clash with what tim tells you about energy, and secondly, because of the risks it has for nuclear proliferation.
So, first, why is this not a good fuel source?
Tim tells you that small modular reactors are an effective fuel source because they can be used in areas where solar power and other types of alternative energy aren't practical and because it's very clean.
We're going to argue that solar power is almost always better than small modular reactors.
Solar power has gotten much more efficient now than it was even five years ago.
It was once the case that only exceptionally sunny places, like california, might be able to use solar power but today, even perpetually dreary places like england can also use solar power, because the panels have gotten much more effective.
And what's more, as battery technology has gotten better, we don't have to worry now about long nights in the wintertime or cloudy days that make solar power ineffective.
Tim tells you that there are areas where it would be better to have small modular reactors, but we would argue that the main reason why this isn't the case is that they consume so many resources to create and set up.
The process of mining and refining uranium, and then of building and establishing safe reactors, and then, most importantly, of storing their waste, ultimately means that this is a very dirty process.
Even if the energy that they produce has no emissions, which is certainly true, we think that the secondary cost of establishing them as a way to produce fuel is actually not very green at all.
Indeed, many studies show that natural gas can actually be less harmful to the environment than building new nuclear reactors.
So we think that maybe these areas where solar power really isn't an option should just continue to use legacy fossil fuel infrastructure until we have a better alternative than nuclear power or existing solar power.
We think that it's important that we consider the secondary costs, because they're a major factor in setting up these new modular reactors and make them an ineffective technology to adopt, even if we might keep using them where they exist now until the end of their lifetime.
Our second argument is about the risks of nuclear proliferation.
Almost every country in the world right now is party to an international treaty not to proliferate nuclear technology.
The reason why it is that it's seen that countries that have access to nuclear weapons pose an existential threat to the rest of humanity.
And you might say, " well, nobody's going to build the next atom bomb out of a small modular reactor, " and that's true, but dirty bombs are actually one of the biggest concerns for security specialists today.
These are weapons that might use a conventional explosive, like a plastic explosive, for the actual bomb, but they contain nuclear material so that they spread radiation and give lots of people radiation sickness and make an area unsafe.
So you don't have to be able to build a full-size nuclear warhead in order to create a nuclear weapon, you just need enough radioactive material to poison tens or hundreds of thousands of people, and a small modular reactor could certainly give someone that.
We think that by their very size and the fact that they're built to be used in less protected areas, these are particularly vulnerable to being captured by non-state elements or by rogue elements in weaker states.
So, in other words, the threat of al qaeda or someone getting their hands on a small modular reactor is much greater than a traditional reactor.
For all these reasons, we should not further exploit this technology.
Thank you.