We should end daylight savings time.
So daylight savings time is a practice where during the summer we advance clocks by one hour so that what would normally be nine o'clock in, say, new york city is now ten o'clock.
The idea behind it is that it's better to give people more daylight in the afternoon so that they can play sport outside or better take advantage of their free time after work.
We think though that this policy should be ended, the policy of having a different time in the summer and winter.
Two arguments.
The first is that this undermines the purpose of time zones.
The foundational idea between having these big time zones is that it ought to be easy to calculate the time difference between any two points.
So recognize that two cities in the same time zone.
Like say new york city and boston, don't actually have the sun rise at the same time, because boston is further north and further east.
But we recognize that it's useful to pretend that they're at the same time in these two cities because they're close together and it makes it easier to do business.
And even if you had to cities like say san francisco and new york, that are in different time zones, it's easier to calculate the difference in time between a large time zone on the east coast and one on the west coast of the united states than it would be to say, ' well, in new york city at seven o three and in san francisco it's eight fifteen.
So we see that daylight savings time actually makes it harder to calculate this time because not every city and state observes daylight savings time, the rules for its application are inconsistent around the world, and even within some countries like the US and canada.
So this actually undermines the idea that it should be easy to calculate time differences.
Moreover, daylight savings time is complete the arbitrary, it's not tied to your physical location in the world in the same way that a time zone is, so we think that, yes while it's true that time zones aren't perfect, they would be better without introducing the arbitrary shift of daylight savings, some of the year and not other times, which makes it more difficult to call the entire system sensible.
Last thing, we think it makes it more difficult to do business if you change your relative hours compared to other people.
So for instance, new york city and singapore are normally twelve hours apart, but if part of the earth are thirteen hours apart, then that makes it so that people are not in the office at the same times relative to one another in say july and november, which probably makes it more difficult to organize long term projects and things like that across international borders, particularly over long distances.
And we think that as the world becomes more and more inter connected, this will only be a greater and greater problem.
So our advocacy then, our second big point is that it would be better to make it always daylight savings time, at least in most of the world.
So first of all, this would solve the idea of uncertainty.
We think that if it was always one hour further ahead, then everyone would think of that as the normal, time rather than in an adjusted time, but you would still access all of the benefits of longer days.
I think it's probably true that most people, particularly the farther north you move, appreciate having the sun up later.
Where I live in boston, the sun goes down at like four PM in december because there's no daylight savings time, and ultimately people will be better able to make use of their free time and travel to and from work if it was always one hour closer.
So I think that the issue with daylight savings time is that it is addressing the real problem.
It's addressing the idea that the sun and the clock are disconnected in many parts of the world, particularly very far north cities, but the solution to that isn't to have daylight savings just to adjust the time zones so that they actually make sense for these cities this would also end the problem of no inconsistency within countries.
Right now, some american states have daylight savings and some don't, so your time relative to say arizona or new mexico might be different during different parts of the year.
But if we always knew that boston was half an hour ahead of new york, then you would never have to make any adjustments based on time of year, you would just know it the same way that you know current time zones.
So at the end of the day, we think that it would clearly be preferable to just make daylight savings permanent in the sense of having one time zone that's farther ahead, rather than to have it change throughout the year and then have all of the harms of not having daylight savings the rest of the time.
So for these reasons, we propose