We should not disband the united nations.
I'm going to explain to you, first of all, why the united nations is actually anti-imperialist, then explain why it's effective at preventing major conflicts, and thirdly, why it doesn't actually create the problems that sam correctly identifies.
So, first, why is the UN anti-imperialist?
In a world with no united nations, there's absolutely no reason for any country to give any consideration to countries like chad or central african republic, but as long as the UN exists, and those countries have a vote that is potentially valuable to other countries and they have the ability to take seats on committees, there's at least some reason for the rest of the world to include them in international diplomacy.
Sam says that the UN is imperialist because it's made up of imperialist countries, or those countries dominate the UN, but the biggest problem with sam's entire speech is that the alternative is also imperialist.
The US and britain and russia and china don't push other countries around because of the UN.
They would do that either way.
The UN just gives those smaller countries or third world countries a forum in which they can express their discontent and actually work together to avoid imperialism.
So we think that the alternative is actually worse than the status quo, as sam presents it, and therefore that the UN is actually an anti-imperialist force.
Our second argument is that the UN has been extremely effective at its actual goal.
Yes, the UN says they have all these lofty purposes, but the real reason it was created, the most important reason, is to prevent a great power war.
After the failure of the league of nations to prevent world war two, the allied powers at the end of the league of nations after world war one, pardon me, the allied powers set up the united nations in order to prevent another major war from breaking out.
The UN security council is extremely effective because it gives all of the great powers a veto over any activity that could push them towards war.
One of the biggest problems for the world in the lead up to world war one is that britain and germany and russia had no way to resolve disputes except to keep building up their militaries.
But now, thanks to the united nations, the US and russia can veto each other's actions if they think that they pose a threat to them and in doing so, they allow us to avoid conflicts that could become military and keep them purely diplomatic.
So I think the UN has actually been extremely successful.
And the other side might point out that the twentieth century was full of conflicts, but that doesn't mean that the UN wasn't working.
The fact that there were so many small wars and proxy wars in the twentieth century but no more great power wars shows you that the UN actually was effective at preventing the types of war that could kill eighty million people or could lead to a nuclear weapon being used.
So we think that the united nations is actually one of the biggest reasons why the cold war didn't turn hot and that it continues to be effective at preventing conflict between major countries today by giving them a way to sort out their problems.
Maybe we need to adjust who's on the security council, but let's not throw the baby out with the bathwater just because the UN isn't perfect right now.
And our third point is that the UN isn't the source of most of the problems sam identifies.
I hinted at this above with imperialism.
But sam says that the UN is problematic because the US doesn't buy in and that this prevents institutions like the world court from being functional.
The UN would not or the united states would not buy in more to the world court if we abolish the UN.
The other side can't solve any of the problems they identify by abolishing the UN.
The way the US treats the united nations is a symptom of american skepticism and isolationism, not a cause.
The alternative world is one in which the US doesn't participate in many more international institutions that it's currently involved in because of the united nations.
For all these reasons, we should not disband the UN.
Thank you.