We should not ban racial profiling.
So I want to be very clear of what we're actually advocating on this side.
We're not saying that racial profiling is an admirable tactic for law enforcement or that it's one that would exist in an ideal society, but for two reasons we think that life would actually be worse for everyone if the tactic were banned.
So first we think that it's impossible to actually stop racial profiling with a legal ban.
All of the analysis that the other team gave you about how racial profiling leads to harmful outcomes and it's racist are still true, but they also explain why it will never go away even if you ban it without changing the minds of the police and the soldiers who carry it out.
Recognize that if you have for instance an all white police force in a largely black community that it will be very very easy for them to profile and get away with it.
We think that there's relatively little oversight of police in most instances so they're actually going to continue to racially profile.
But we think that right now, when it's a legal practice, there are certain limitations on how and when people can racially profile.
We think that if you ban the practice entirely it will still go on, but because it's under the books the police want to cover it up by threatening people who might turn them in and that ultimately they'll have an incentive to be more cruel.
The short version of this argument is that you cannot get rid of the practice without changing the people enforcing the practice and that seems unlikely to ever happen in most countries.
At that point we think it's better to have it above books when you could have trials and things like that and regulations that can ultimately make it a less bad practice.
So our second argument is that we think that banning racial profiling will create resentment among majority groups that will actually make life worse for minorities.
So for instance we think that one tactic that will be used to do racial profiling despite the fact it's illlegal is likely to really frustrate a lot of people.
And you see this in american airports, and I would imagine around the world.
So basically the tactic is that the security officials see a person who they think is muslim and that they want to racially profile.
So what they do is they say we'll get in trouble if we stop more than one in ten muslim people.
So what they'll do, is they'll say well he's the twenty third person in line so we'll stop nine white people before we get to him and then we can still profile that guy.
In this way you can see that you don't actually prevent the racial profiling you just spend lots of resources searching all those white people for no reason and make everybody in line angry and frustrated at the experience that they've just had because everyone knows full well what's going on that they're being searched just so that the people can search someone else.
So this is likely to lead to resentment towards the minority group that we claim to help and we think that ultimately that is going to be enough of a reason to keep the practice legal so that we avoid this backlash and resentment.
But we also think that another class of white people is going to be angry that the police can't profile.
They're going to see that perhaps a crime in their community is committed disproportionately by a minority group even if there are social reasons for that, or even if their perception is wrong, and they're going to feel like liberals and the government are intervening in a way that's preventing the police from keeping them safe.
This is likely to be a huge tool for conservative candidates and right wing populists who are sweeping across the states in europe right now to get into power and implement really harmful policies that'll actually make things even worse for minorities than they are right now.
So look, we're not saying racial profiling is good.
In a perfect world it certainly wouldn't exist, but in the world that we live in right now we think that it would be better to keep it legal and above books than to ban it.
For these reasons I am proud to oppose.
Thank you