Organ donation should be mandatory.
So by this we mean that liberal democracies like the US, canada, britain, ought to require people to add themselves to organ donation lists, and should require them to give up tissue if they are called upon.
So we think that living people might be asked to give part of like their liver or something like that, and that the deceased ought have any necessary organs harvested if it's going to save someone else's life.
So that's our stance in this debate.
Two arguments.
The first is about why we think needy people are more deserving of organs than anyone else.
So we think first of all that for a living donor, yes, there's a certain amount of pain and inconvenience and risk when you go in for a surgery to have some of your tissue removed, but that all of these things are outweighed by saving another person's life.
We think that first of all, we can probably offer some sort of compensation as a reward for people who give tissue.
You know, make up for their time that they're losing it work and things like that.
But at the end of the day we think that saving someone's life because we're giving them a new liver or a new kidney is always going to be better than preventing a little bit of pain and inconvenience for someone else.
And in terms of the deceased, I think there's no way that the other side can get up here and say that someone's desire to be buried or cremated in a certain condition outweighs another person's right to life.
In a a body is an inanimate object, it doesn't have any sort of rights whatsoever, and we don't think that the person's family or community has a greater claim to it than someone who's very life is at risk if they don't have access to the organs from that body.
So we think that in every instance, particularly in the instance of the deceased, they should be required to put all their organs up so that people in need are able to access them.
We think that furthermore, that since healthcare is a fundamental right according to the constitutions of many countries and their laws, and also according to things like the UN declaration of human rights, that governments need to take a radical action to better protect the health of people who aren't very wealthy.
We see that around the world there are many more people who need organs then their organs available.
So those with the most wealth and privilege and power are the only ones who are ever able to access these organ transplants.
We think governments should take radical action to increase the supply of organs so that people who aren't as fortunate will also be able to access them, and the only way to do that is to have mandatory donation, because there's no way that they're just going to convince people to give these away for free otherwise on the other side of the house.
At that point, we think it's clear that governments need to step in and take action here because people who are in desperate need of organs are not able to access them right now in the status quo.
But our second argument is that is twofold.
First, we say that ethically, we always ought donate organs.
We think that if something is a universalizable, basically if everyone were to do an action and that action would be better for society or the world, then that action is probably the right thing to do.
And we can see that if everyone in the world were to give up you know a little bit of organ tissue that they don't need to live in order to save a child's life, that the world be a better place.
And if every dead body had its organs harvested, then we probably wouldn't need very many living people to get tissue first of all, and secondly, we would be saving living people at the expense of the dead.
I think it's clear that this would always be the right thing to do.
So at that point we tell you that the state needs to take action to make the ethical thing happen.
We think states are ethical actors who need to act according to the same standards as individuals because they're made up of and represent individuals.
The other team might say that government shouldn't be bound by the same morality as ordinary people, but at the point where presidents and prime ministers are ordinary people, we think that they need to act in a fundamentally ethical way when they make decisions about how the government should use its power.
So at that point, because on our side we are saving people's lives, particularly people without a lot of privilege and money, because we are allocating a very limited resource in the most effective possible way, and because this is the right thing to do, organ donation should be mandatory.