We should not subsidize distance education.
On our side of this debate, we're going to explain why it's not a good thing to preference distance education over traditional education.
We don't think that government should prefer distance education to traditional or in-person education, first, because of the effect that this has on quality, and second, because traditional education actually does much more than just teach the kids who are sitting in the seats.
Danny's speech really focuses a lot on access, and while we agree that access is important, we think that access to a bad education is not something that the government should be promoting.
Our first point, then, is about how this affects quality.
We think that in a world where the government subsidizes distance education, there a few things are going to happen.
First, most students are going to learn much less than they would if they had gone to an in-person school.
The reason why is that they're not going to have the same interaction with the teacher, they're not going to feel the same pressure to study, they're not going to have the same ability to talk to other students and learn from their peers, and as a result, they're going to learn much less than they would have learned if they had been sitting in a classroom or a lecture hall.
But moreover, we tell you that there's now going to be an incentive for governments to close traditional schools.
Why?
It's very expensive, as danny points out in his speech, to operate a school in a rural or low population density area.
For instance, in some parts of the US, students have to take a bus for hours to get to school because they live in such a low density area.
Sometimes in developing countries, where there are fewer schools for the number of people, students just don't have access in certain areas that are relatively poor and can't support them without heavy subsidy from the government.
But those students are going to lose out on the ability to go to school at all, in person, in danny's world.
Why?
Well, governments are going to always choose something cheaper, like distance education, over something more expensive but higher quality, like an in-person education.
So, on the other side, you're going to see students lose access to in-person education who have it right now and, as a result, lose a high quality education that they would get in the status quo.
The last thing I'd like to talk about with reference to quality is that there's no way to verify what students have learned.
You don't have a teacher who's able to look at a student's progress in the same way that you do with in-person classes.
And although you can administer exams remotely, cheating and things like that are going to be much more common, as we see with the higher rate of cheating on certain exams that are taken at home rather than in school.
Our second argument is about why traditional education is more deserving of subsidies, aside from quality.
The first is that it actually does much more.
The money that goes to letting students attend traditional universities and colleges also funds research and training for future educators.
The research that's done at universities is made possible in large part by the money that they bring in by offering a service.
While some countries, like the US and britain, have massive government research funds, in other countries, that research is being funded by students' tuition.
So if students stopped going to traditional universities, then that research funding dries up and your universities and colleges are going to close and aren't going to be able to provide that research to the same extent that they do today.
But we'd also point out that colleges and universities are important training educators.
If you want to solve the problem of a shortage of seats in the schools, the answer isn't to get rid of schools, it's to train more teachers.
And to do that, you need more people going to university and getting a high quality education, not fewer.
So for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize distance education and prefer it to traditional education.
Thank you.