We should raise the retirement age.
So our proposal is that the retirement age should be pegged to life expectancy.
So if the life expectancy was sixty seven years old back when the retirement age was set at sixty five in the united states and today the life expectancy is seventy five, perhaps the retirement age would be something like seventy two trimming proportional to the higher life expectancy.
So with this in mind we have two main areas for debate.
The first is the purpose of the retirement age.
So we think that fundamentally the goal of having them a retirement age is to protect those who are very elderly from being exploited.
We tell you however that people today are physically healthy much longer and that the types of work that people do, particularly in the types of developed countries that most often have a retirement age, is no longer as physical.
So we see that not only are people in better shape well through their sixties, but also the work they do is less demanding of them physically.
So we think that it's less likely that people will be taken advantage of in the sense that they were actually able to continue working from a physical perspective.
We think that the other side of this is to avoid poor quality of work.
This is the second purpose of the retirement age.
But people are also mentally fit much longer today.
People are more aware of illnesses like alzheimer's and obviously you would still be able to retire if you were mentally unable to work, but on top of that we see that people are better educated and generally speaking better able to continue contributing to the workplace much longer, especially if they're more specialized in their expertise is of even greater value than it might have been in the past.
So we see at that point that we are not seeing people being exploited there and that they are able to continue to do high quality of work and on top of that the equality of people's physical and mental health into old age is only improving and so is life expectancy.
So we think that on our side of the house, because we have a flexible retirement age, they can change as circumstances continue to get better and better.
Ultimately, we will better continue to fulfill the purposes of the retirement age moving into the future.
So this is a very forward looking proposal that we think would actually be much better than the status quo.
So our second argument is about social security, because I think that this is the main reason why the retirement age matters.
People are free to stop working whenever they want.
I'm twenty one.
If I wanted I could quit my job tomorrow and I guess go sit on a beach except that I need money, but we see that society needs lots and lots of people working in order to fund social security.
If you gave it to twenty one year olds then there'll be very few people working and lots and lots of people collecting.
Now perhaps that's an exaggeration, but you do have a similar situation today where more and more people are retired because they're living ten, twenty years past the retirement age and drawing on social security during that time.
What this means is that the proportion of retirees to workers is much greater than was intended when social security and pension schemes were set up in the early twentieth century, and this is threatening the solvency of those programs.
You need a proper balance of workers to retirees, and the best way to do that given that birth rates are falling and you're not likely to get a huge influx of workers, is to reduce the number of retirees.
So obviously what governments could do is to require people to work longer before they're eligible for their benefits.
We think that this is critical because right now programs like social security in the united states are nearing insolvency, which means that potentially people might not be able to receive the benefits they're entitled to in old age.
If we raise the retirement age then everyone can get the benefits they're entitled to.
They just have to wait a little bit longer.
So that seems much more fair to people who have yet to retire.
Rather than just allowing people who have already retired to soak up lots of resources and screw over the next generation.
We think that our policy is likely to ensure that there is always a healthy balance between workers and retirees because as people live longer and longer our policy will solve for that by encouraging them to work longer and longer.
So for these reasons we should raise the retirement age.
Thank you.