We should not ban whaling.
In my speech, I'm going to explain to you, first, why whaling can be done sustainably and, secondly, why it's wrong to limit the rights of native peoples.
And I will do some rebuttal to the arguments we heard from rachel on the affirmative side of this debate along the way.
So my first argument is that whaling can be done in a sustainable fashion.
And I think that this undermines the analysis rachel gave you about why whales are a keystone species in the environment, because if we can do whaling without seriously damaging the ecosystem, then it's clear that we don't need to ban whaling, according to her own logic.
So, first, obviously, there are many different species of whales.
Some species of whales, like humpback whales, are endangered.
Some species of whales, like minke whales I think it's pronounced, although I could be wrong there, are not endangered.
So we think it's clear that if there are some species of whales that are not endangered, that we can probably come up with a way to harvest them as a resource sustainably.
I'm going to explain what that might look like now.
We think that the most fair way to limit this valuable resource would be to allow only the native peoples of the arctic to hunt these whales.
To my understanding, the only whales that could be sustainably harvested are those that live in arctic waters, where whales are more numerous, for whatever reason, and many of the native peoples of the arctic, such as the yakutat people and the inuit people, have always relied on whaling as part of their religion and culture.
We'll explain, in a moment, why it's wrong to limit those people's culture, but we would argue that given the very small populations of these native peoples of siberia, alaska, and northern canada, that they really wouldn't pose that much of a threat to whales and that if it was clear that they were abusing this resource or harvesting them unsustainably, an agreement could be reached that would allow only sustainable harvesting.
In fact, a similar agreement already exists for alaska natives, and we think that something could be done like this all around the arctic that would exclude countries like japan, that harvest whales in a way that's not sustainable, but would allow these native peoples of the far north to do so.
So, now, our second argument: why is it wrong to limit the rights of native peoples?
And I think this clashes a lot with the arguments rachel gave you about why future people should be able to access whales for aesthetic reasons, because we think it's wrong to discriminate against the already existing peoples of the far north of this world in favor of future people.
So, first of all, we tell you that banning whaling poses a sincere threat to these peoples' way of life.
Their ancestors have been whaling in the arctic for thousands of years, probably since the last ice age, and it's part of their religion, and it's something that's necessary to sustain their communities, because there are so few resources available to them.
We tell you that at the end of the day, we need to prioritize people over animals.
Why is this true?
Well, first of all, countries like canada have treaty obligations to these native peoples to respect their way of life and permit them to live according to their customs, and we think it would be acting in bad faith to violate those treaties on behalf of whales.
But secondly, we would tell you that even the people of alaska, like the yakutat, still deserve the right to hunt these whales, even without a treaty, because we think that, ultimately, states have obligations to their citizens rather than to the environment.
States are made up of people who are part of the social contract, excuse me, so even if whales might be something that the state could maintain stewardship over, they don't have the same standing as people who are members of that state.
We think that the government needs to defer to people rather than animals because at the end of the day, the government exists to serve people and is a way for people to maintain their own rights and freedoms.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban whaling.
And I think this directly contradicts what we've heard from rachel about the environmental concerns you may have.
Thank you.