Astrology brings more harm than good.
So we think that in this debate of course neither side is going to be able to prove that astrology is the best or worst thing in the world, but we think that we're going to be able to tell you that on balance it does more harmful things than good things and that that's how you ought judge this type of debate.
And by astrology of course I mean things like horoscopes and the zodiac and all of those type of things.
So our first point is that astrology encourages a poor way of thinking.
The state and society in general spend a lot of money teaching young people to think like scientists.
They learn about the scientific method in school, they learn to be critical of information presented by the media, or by science and other places like that, ultimately so that they are able to make their own decisions about what seems reasonable based on the evidence available in the world around them.
Yet at the same time many people believe in astrology which is obviously not supported by evidence, and which often flies directly in the face of science.
We think that this therefore challenges the notion that it is important to be critical as a thinker, and the notion that people should believe in evidence based science rather than non evidence based faith, and we think that this can be confusing for young people and ultimately could lead to an anti-scientific view point.
And we think that when people have an anti-scientific viewpoint they're more likely to do things like think that vaccines cause autism and not vaccinate their children or to believe in unproven alternative medicines that don't work or might actually be harmful.
So we think that we would prefer a world in which everyone had a more scientific way of thinking and that in that sort of world astrology wouldn't exist.
In our world it is only doing a harm by discouraging this scientific way of thinking.
Next we think that astrology discourages personal responsibility.
Now obviously not everybody checking their horoscope is completely ignoring their own responsibility for good and bad things that happen in their lives, but if you think, on some level, that the alignment of the stars determines if something good or bad will happen, we do think that you're less likely to take ownership over the events in your life.
We think that it's more likely for instance that if something bad happens to you that you won't take responsibility but rather that you blame it on your horoscope and that this is particularly true for day to day events.
We think therefore that astrology is a way for people to avoid taking personal responsibility.
And in a perfect world we would want everyone to always take responsibility for their actions.
To own up to them and to believe that they can try to improve and get better over time by taking responsibility for their actions.
So in that type of a world astrology very likely wouldn't exist.
So we see that, again, it is doing more harm than good even if it's not a massive harm or a harm that fundamentally changes everything about the world.
Lastly under this, we think that astrology encourages people to have unrealistic expectations for their lives.
We think that in general people's lives don't change for the better without lots of hard work, we think that luck is really overstated.
So when horoscopes and astrology in general tells people that, well, you might have a really good month if the stars align in a certain way, that probably does set people up with unrealistic expectations and we think that when those expectations aren't met that people are likely to be disappointed and ultimately that we would prefer that not happen if people just didn't believe in astrology and avoided this disappointment and these unrealistic expectations.
So for our second point we'd like to weigh the potential good and bad of astrology a little more explicitly.
The other team is likely to tell you that astrology gives people hope for the future or that if their life is going poorly, belief that it will get better.
But this is a false hope and there's no reason to think that their lives will get better without something changing in the real world.
So we think it ultimately astrology is peddling a lie and we don't think that that's going to really help anybody.
And next they might say: " well, astrology is harmless fun. "
But we think that even if this is normally the case it does certainly encourage a less scientific world view and encourage people to take a little less personal responsibility.
So on balance we think it's a bad thing there as well.
For these reasons we think that astrology brings more harm than good.
Thank you.