We should abolish disposable diapers.
So, in this debate, we're saying that common disposable diapers, like the type made by pampers, should ultimately not be allowed.
We would phase them out over time and encourage people to switch over to using reusable cloth diapers in their place.
So with that in mind, our first argument for why we ought abandon disposable diapers is the massive amount of waste that they create.
Every year, hundreds of millions of disposable diapers go into landfills around the world.
They can't be recycled, so they end up just sitting in these landfills for hundreds of years because they're full of plastic.
Ultimately, these products are very environmentally unfriendly but what's more, they're just wasteful by their very design.
Not only are the diapers going to be thrown away, but there's also an infrastructure surrounding them.
Families get these diaper disposal tools so that young children are able to dispose of their own diaper without having to go to a parent once they're old enough to walk around, and at the same time, there's also a huge infrastructure around diaper disposal in public places and elsewhere.
So we think that it's not just the harm of hundreds of millions of diapers going into landfills, although that is a sufficient harm to abandon disposable diapers, but also of the infrastructure that goes around to to facilitate their use.
But moreover, we think that another big problem with disposable diapers is their cost.
Recognize that for most parents in countries like the US, canada and britain, disposable diapers are not a choice.
If you work, then your children have to go to daycare.
And if they go to daycare, then they have to use disposable diapers, because daycare facilities won't accept children who use the traditional reusable type of diaper.
Ultimately, this forces parents to take on an absolutely enormous cost.
Diapers are very expensive and babies go through them very quickly whereas, on the other hand, reusable diapers, while they might be expensive upfront, are then going to be able to be used for a couple of years and are going to save a huge amount of money, not to mention the environmental benefits that we talked about.
For working class parents, changing this social norm would make a big difference.
I already mentioned that people don't have a choice about using disposable diapers, but this burden also falls disproportionately on those who can least afford to bear it.
The people who are most likely to use reusable diapers right now are wealthy people because they can afford to have one parent stay at home and have the time to clean and reuse these cloth diapers whereas low-income parents are more likely to have to have both parents working, so that there's no time available to devote to this process.
Therefore, by changing this norm, we would free up a significant amount of income for low-income parents the time when they need it the most, namely, when they have young children who are, as everyone knows, very expensive things to have.
We think that this money could go towards things like better childcare and better services for their children rather than literally being thrown away at the end of every day.
And our last point is just about the long-term sustainability of diapers.
Right now, the world is willing and able to endure huge amounts of waste, but that's going to change in the future.
Climate change is making people more aware of the environmental costs that their actions have.
Producing disposable diapers produces an enormous amount of greenhouse gases in the form of a production, since essentially they're made from oil in the form of plastics.
At the end of the day, people aren't going to be willing to bear this cost in the long term, so we ought abandon disposable diapers and turn to something with a smaller carbon footprint.
So, for all of these reasons, we should abandon the use of disposable diapers.
Thank you.