We should disband nasa.
By this we mean to say that the american government should dissolve nasa, the american space agency, and not replace it with anything else.
We have two main arguments for our side this evening, the first is that nasa is no longer needed.
Recognize that although nasa was created, on paper, to serve as a civilian space exploration agency, it was actually a front for ICBM development.
The saturn five rocket that sent all of the american astronauts to the moon was actually an intercontinental ballistic missile.
They just put an apollo launcher on top of it, instead of a nuclear bomb.
Because it was unpopular with the public to spend billions of dollars on ballistic missile research, and because the americans wanted to get a leg up on the soviets in deploying these missiles, nasa was created and billions of dollars were poured into it.
Today, the united states has enough ballistic missiles.
We don't need new and better ones, because we can already hit anywhere in the world in a matter of minutes, and we have more functional ballistic missiles than any other country.
So nasa doesn't really fill the same purpose anymore, and now that its true purpose has gone away, it's fulfilling a bunch of ancillary goals that don't really matter.
We'd also like to point out that even if you think space exploration matters, more on that in just a moment, private companies are now stepping in to fill this need.
Companies like space_x are already fulfilling contracts for the US government.
So why do we need a bloated, inefficient organization like nasa, when we can have private industry take on all the costs, and we can just contract out to them?
In particular, since the age of great manned space exploration seems to have come to an end and it doesn't seem like we're going to mars anytime soon, it seems like it's worthless to keep nasa around, since that's the only thing they're still good at.
So, the next thing that I'd like to talk about is that space travel itself is useless, and we shouldn't invest more money into it.
Now, I know that space travel holds a kind of romantic place in all of our hearts, because it's the final frontier, and we all grew up watching star trek, but space exploration doesn't actually do anything for you and me.
Defenders of space exploration usually defend it by saying that other technologies are developed as a result of space exploration.
They often point to things like the ballpoint pen or certain types of foil that are used in vehicles today, but the reason why nasa was able to produce so much useful technology wasn't that space travel is uniquely good, it's that massive government spending on science is uniquely good.
We think that if you poured billions of dollars into exploring the ocean or preventing climate change that you would also get these kind of ancillary benefits, but those things would actually help us here on the ground.
No one on earth really benefits from knowing more about what type of salt they have on mars.
So at the end of the day, the declared ends of space exploration are no good, and we shouldn't let the fact that there were some ancillary benefits to the moon exploration project convince us to keep spending billions of dollars on something that doesn't do anything to help people on earth.
The last thing I'd like to say is that spending on nasa is a misuse of the government's funds.
All government money is fungible, which means that it could be spent on other projects if it weren't spent on the current projects.
There are people dying right now in the united states because they lack access to health care or access to shelter.
There are people in puerto rico as I speak, who don't have electricity or water to drink.
Why should we be spending money to look at pebbles in space when there are real people suffering here on earth that we could help with that money?
Although nasa's budget isn't large, and I'm sure the other side will say that this money wouldn't help everyone in america, it could help some people, and we think that to those people, it's clearly better not to have nasa and instead to spend on things like disaster relief.
For all these reasons, we should disband nasa.
Thank you.