We should not abolish term limits.
On our side, we're going to explain to you how this actually is good for democracy and actually promotes stronger democratic norms, directly contrasting with what rachel told you about how they undermine them.
Rachel tells you that the most important thing in a democracy is letting people vote for who they want to, but I actually don't think that's true.
It's clear that we need some limits on who is allowed to stand for what office.
We think that achieving a system of government that has good representation is more important than literally letting people vote for any particular candidate.
After all, in a trustee system of government, the individual representative shouldn't be that important, what should matter is if they can represent the people that they claim to represent.
So with that in mind, rachel kind of brushes off incumbent bias, but this is actually a really big problem for democracies.
It's really difficult for an outsider to ever beat an incumbent just because that person has so much name recognition, and people who are less informed or less educated about politics are going to be unlikely to know who the newcomer is, but they'll recognize someone who's been their senator for twenty years, let's say.
And so that person's going to have a huge boost, even if they're not doing a good job and not representing the people that they're supposed to represent.
We think that you need to check incumbent bias because it's actually a threat to democracy.
If people can get into office and then stay there just because of this huge bias, then they have very little incentive to actually represent people.
Rachel tells you that people do have an incentive to represent their constituents because they want to get reelected, but if it's extremely easy because of incumbent bias, then that's simply not true.
Next, we tell you that if you don't have term limits, it's almost impossible to ever make radical change or substantial change in a political system.
Why?
If people are serving for thirty years or thirty five years, they're probably in favor of the status quo by the time they get later into their term of service.
Why is that the case?
Well, because they helped make the status quo.
So if the status quo isn't working for people or if things need to change to adapt to new circumstances, representatives and senators who have been in place for decades are probably not the people who are going to be able to make change.
If you don't have term limits, you basically impose a huge bias in favor of the status quo, and that's really bad because countries like the US and britain are becoming more diverse over time, so a lot of viewpoints that are now commonplace or types of people who are now commonplace just weren't around in the same numbers as they were twenty years ago.
So you see underrepresentation of non-white people or of women in houses of parliament or houses representatives if you have this massive bias in favor of incumbents.
The other side might say that this can benefit women too, and that might be true down the line but for the most part now, it benefits men or it benefits white people, because those are most of the incumbents.
Rachel also kind of brushes off the idea that we need to check corruption.
And it might be true that most senators or representatives in the US or MPs in britain aren't taking bribes, but in countries like brazil where that's a very big reality, we do think it's important that you limit the ability of people to get into office and then make a living taking bribes for the rest of their life.
We need to crack down on corruption by making it harder for people to rely on one particular seat in order to secure the interest of their business or the interest of their special group.
And finally, we think that this is a way to prevent a " geriocracy ".
We think that it's really important that you have representatives who aren't all senior citizens which is something that often happens in countries that don't have term limits.
People get into congress when they're fifty and they stay there until they're ninety, and as a result, they don't really represent the vast majority of people who are young.
So we think that a lot of perspectives are missing there and that ultimately government suffers as a result, because there's not a diversity of opinion.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish term limits.
Thank you.