The affordable care act, or from here on out I'll call it obama care, brings more harm than good.
We have three arguments in this debate.
The first is that we think that obama care has done a poor job helping the people that it claims to make better off, namely low income people, or business owners who in the past didn't have health insurance.
First of all, you have to recognize that obama care requires people to buy very expensive insurance that doesn't actually offer them a lot of coverage.
The lowest level of plan, the bronze plans that most people are actually buying on the exchange, cover basically nothing, and cost hundreds and hundreds of dollars a month per person.
So, while it may be true that people are insured, they're not insured well, and the cost is astronomically high.
We think that people chose not to get this kind of plan in the past because it's a bad buy.
Now, you're forcing people to buy something that's not a good deal, that they don't want,and we don't think this really helps those people.
But on top of that, many of the reforms that were important to obamacare such as the expansion of medicare and medicaid, weren't implemented by many of the states.
Recognize that this happened on a state by state level.
So even if massachusetts did a really good job, we think that other states like north carolina did a really poor job, and those are often the states where the most people were uninsured because their governments already didn't provide for them.
So we think that again, obama care has failed to help the people who needed it the most.
Aside from that, the lack of a public option, namely, a public insurance company that competes with the private ones to drive down costs, means that the insurance companies have no incentives to keep costs low.
They drive them up as high as they possibly can, and are able to gouge people because everyone has to buy insurance now.
So we think that, again, people are being taken advantage of by the insurance industry as a result of obama care.
So, at the end of the day, if you care about helping people, and I think that we have a moral obligation to do so, obama care has failed to actually help the people who needed it most.
Our second argument is that it prevents reform.
The discussion around obama care has required progressives to defend president obama and his legacy, even though obama care has very little to do with the progress of health care system.
We think that in order to defend to this very moderate reforms that's actually not been very successful, the conversation surrounding things like single payer healthcare or competition across state lines has fallen off, and ultimately people aren't talking about the kind of solutions that really would help them.
So we think that at the end of the day, there's been a chilling effect on discourse as a result of obamacare, and in the long term this is very damaging.
Because the united states needs a first world healthcare plan that will actually take care of its citizens.
And because of obamacare, we have lost eight years in terms of actually developing such a health care system, and the infrastructure that we've created has only strengthened private insurance companies who are now in an even greater position to resist creating any sort of public option in the future, because they have so many more clients and so much more money to spend fighting such a plan.
So again, if you care about helping people in the long run, obama care has damaged that.
Our last point then is about the economic impacts of obama care, and why we don't think it's been a good thing.
First of all, recognize that it's basically corporate welfare.
If you're an insurance company, you used to have to offer a good product in order to get people to buy insurance.
If your insurance was expensive and didn't cover very many things, people would just pay for the doctor out of pocket.
But now because of obamacare, the insurance companies know that they're going to get customers no matter what, because everyone has to buy insurance.
This removes the incentive for them to actually compete with one another to offer better plans, so they all offer effectively garbage at a very high price, and everyone has to purchase it because they don't have any other options, and ultimately this leads to a worse insurance industry.
You have massive public spending in many cases or mandatory private spending, which leads to private profits for the shareholders of insurance companies, and doesn't help ordinary people.
And on top of that, we think that an idea that would lead to economic growth, allowing insurance companies to compete across state borders, because right now they only compete with in given states, has fallen off.
This is an idea that was popular before obama care but no one's talking about it anymore because of the president's plan, and this means that costs are artificially high in some states like massachusetts, and relatively lower in other states, but there can't be any competition over the state border so the situation is unlikely to get better in the immediate future.
So for these reasons, because it doesn't actually help the people who need help, and because it funnels public money and the money of hardworking americans into insurance companies, who aren't actually offering a good product, we think that obama care, or the affordable care act, actually brings more harm than good.