Single sex schools bring more harm than good.
I think the most important issue in this round is that we keep an eye on what the purpose of education at the secondary level actually is.
And we think that the main thing that society needs from these schools is to produce young citizens who can work and vote and participate in society.
So obviously there's more to school than just shakespeare and science, and we think that social education and socialization is an important part of producing well rounded young people who can go on to be citizens.
So two main arguments.
One is about preparing students for the real world, and the other is about the quality of education.
So first.
We tell you that we should break this down fundamentally into the different groups as they're affected by single sex schools.
So as the world is right now, women have to learn to succeed, unfortunately, in a patriarchal society where they're going to be spoken over by men and ignored by men in the workplace or not treated fairly.
We think that putting girls in single sex schools where they don't have to deal with this day to day, doesn't do them any services because it prepares them to succeed in a world that doesn't exist, which is a world without sexism and patriarchy.
So we think that you actually hinder these women's abilities to succeed, because even if they get better grades in biology they're not going to be better prepared to compete with men in the workplace, to use those grades in the future.
And we think perhaps even more perniciously, that boys are not going to be learning to treat women with respect and treat women the right way, particularly if they don't have sisters, they're not going to be around lots of other women their own age the way they would if they were in a normal school, and we think therefore that they're not going to normalize how they should actually interact with women and be respectful.
We think that schools are a tremendously powerful tool to encourage good behavior that you're losing out on on their side.
And the last point that we'd like to make is that in today's world we think that queer people are basically going to be erased if you have single sex schools, if you have people who are transgender or not binary I think it's likely that they're going to have a lot of difficulty fitting into single sex schools, and that even if this is a small amount of the population, these are people who already face a lot of discrimination and bias and we shouldn't make their lives more difficult by forcing them to fit into these schools where they're not going to be accepted perhaps.
So regarding the idea that students are already going to have to deal with a lot of distractions and that having this people of the opposite sex in the classroom.
We tell you that first of all, students around the world already go to co-ed schools and do very well.
If you look at the countries with the best schools, like finland or singapore, they're co-ed, so we just don't think this is true.
And also we think teenagers will get distracted no matter what.
If there aren't girls in the classroom then they'll be gossiping about something else.
We also tell you that not all students are going to be attracted to people of the opposite sex, so you don't get perfect solvency even if you do have these kind of single sex schools.
And aside from that, students have to learn to deal with this eventually in the workplace, they can't get distracted because they've a cute co-worker, so we don't see why you're not doing them a disservice here.
Our second point is about the quality of education.
So we tell you that at the end of the day, if schools do not produce students who are then able to work in society and participate fully in every aspect of government and the workplace, then schools are not doing their job.
And I think I've given you lots of examples about why individual groups are not going to be able to do this, because women aren't being socialized to interact with sexist bosses and co-workers, and boys aren't being socialized to interact with women as equals, and queer people are being erased, and students as a whole are not being provided with the kind of education that they need to do well in the future.
So society as a whole is the clear loser here, because you're going to have people graduating from secondary school, who should be able to act professionally in a mixed sex in workplace, and aren't going to be prepared to do so.
People will still have to learn the school or these skills, but now rather than learning them when they're fourteen, they're going to be learning them when they're twenty, and that's going to be a drain on the economy because people probably won't be as effective in the workplace.
And also it's probably going to lead to a lot more serious things, like sexual assault and other crimes, because people won't be socialized to have the kind of norms that we expect from them in a civilized society.
So for these reasons we think that single sex schools bring more harm than good.