We should not abolish veto power on the UN security council.
Three arguments for our side today.
The first is that the most important role of the UN is to prevent world war three from occurring.
The other team in this debate has tried to tell you that the UN was founded to be democratic or to promote democracy, but this is obviously untrue.
You see that the soviet union was one of the founding members and that china, under chiang kai shek when they were admitted, was also not a democracy.
The real reason why these five countries, britain, france, the states, china and russia, were put on the security council is so that they could settle their differences in a peaceful fashion without resorting to war, as great powers had in the past.
So we argue that the UN security council must exist to keep great powers placated.
Ultimately, the problem with the UN security council is not the veto, but rather that a few countries ought be granted the veto who don't have it now.
We think that countries like india and germany have probably become powerful enough to deserve access to the veto power, even if they were too weak after world war two because they were a colony or because they lost the war respectively.
But ultimately, removing the veto power means that countries like the US or russia might not be able to have their will in the UN.
The other team seems to think that this could be a good thing, because it would be more democratic.
I'll respond to this in a moment, but what's important is that right now the UN doesn't take actions that back major countries into a corner.
For instance, the US doesn't have to go into the awkward position of defending israel from a foreign invasion, because of the UN security council.
The majority of the general assembly would happily vote to invade israel in order to create a state for palestine, but that's prevented and the US is prevented from having to go to war with other UN member states because of the security council.
And you could say the same thing for russia.
If we voted without a veto, it's quite likely that the rest of the world might have tried to do something about crimea, which would have put russia in the awkward situation of having to fight other UN member states.
In order to avoid major conflicts from breaking out, we have the veto so that the UN can't take actions that would lead to conflicts between major powers.
This is clearly a good thing.
This is the reason we live in the most peaceful time in history: is that powerful countries around the world are unable to be forced into an untenable position by the international community.
In other words, there won't be a land war between the US and russia as long as they have the ability to control international acts through the UN security council.
This saves millions of lives, trillions of dollars, and ultimately makes everyone better off.
So we think that it's critical that we do not abolish the security council veto.
But next we'd like to point out that the UN is explicitly founded for peace and not equality.
Recognize that every country in the UN has one vote in the general assembly.
This is regardless of the fact that tongo probably has four thousand citizens and china has one point two billion citizens.
There's nothing democratic about it.
On top of that, many of the representatives are chosen by dictators.
I don't think that robert mugabe is checking in on public opinion when he appoints his ambassador to the UN.
Even in democratic countries like america or france, the UN ambassador is not an elected position, so there's nothing democratic about the united nations, nor should there be.
The UN exist to promote peace and, ultimately, that's the highest goal that any international body could have: to prevent conflict and war which would kill millions of people.
If democratic interest would lead to an international war, then we're fine with ignoring them.
Recognize that world war one was wildly popular with the citizens of france and germany until it broke out.
The public doesn't always make the best decisions, and when the potential outcome is wars that could kill tens of millions of people, we think it's better not to defer to democracy but to have the UN take actions to prevent these wars from breaking out.
And that is made possible by the security council veto.
Thank you.