We should not legalize organ trades.
So we have three arguments for you this evening for why we think this is the case.
The first is that we think that these agreements will always be coercive.
We think that many people, when confronted with the idea that they could make forty, fifty thousand dollars for their kidney, say, won't be able to make a rational choice.
They'll feel like they have no other option because not doing this would be so much to the detriment of their family and their future income.
We think though that on top of that, if people are in a position when they need an organ that they are going to apply every form of pressure that they're able to apply in order to get someone to agree to give up their organ.
We think that for instance very wealthy people who could actually afford to purchase these organs would also be very likely to have the means to coerce people with less means.
We think that you might see older family members coercing younger family members, community leaders coercing members of that community, etcetera, and that for this reason we should not allow this so that we don't allow the system of coercion to go on with legal sanction.
Our second argument is that we shouldn't allow these organ trades because of the asymmetry of information.
So the other team tells you that people are going to be informed, that they'll have doctors and lawyers involved, but we don't think that's enough.
We don't think that anyone can truly conceive of what their life will be like after they give up their organ to someone else.
We think that, for instance, someone can't imagine what their life would be like if they develop cirrhosis later in life after giving up part of their liver.
If that person goes on to need an organ donor or goes on to die because of this, right now they aren't able to internalize those risks.
But on top of that we think that there's an asymmetry because presumably, the person seeking out the organ is going to have more access to information, more wealth, etcetera, relative to the person who would be donating that organ.
It's a similar problem to what you see for surrogacy.
Those who are most likely to donate are going to be those who are least educated, those were most likely to be motivated by this money because they're low income or because they have few options.
Everything I just told you about coercion.
But it also applies here because if these people have less access to education, have less access to resources, then they're likely going to one, have inferior council compared to the other person, two, be less able to understand the council that they receive, and three, have less experience in making these kind of decisions based on the advice that their council gives them.
So we don't think that the donor is ever going to be adequately informed to make this decision and we also think that donors will be people who are uniquely unsuited to make such an important decision.
At that point we think that clearly the government should step in.
Because when one party is going to be systematically abused by a contract, we see that in the status quo this contract isn't allowed.
This is why for instance we don't allow children to sign contracts or why we don't let people sign themselves into indentured servitude.
Our last argument is about the perverse incentives that this creates for doctors.
So recognize that any organ donation benefits one person at the expense of someone else.
We think that whereas in the status quo this is purely altruistic.
People are choosing to give something up for themselves.
Now that's no longer the case, now you have this financial aspect.
What does this mean?
First of all it means that doctors are going to be able to help their patients who aren't wealthy enough to afford to buy organs because recognize that once you can make money through the sale of an organ, you'll have much less of a reason to donate it for free.
So doctors will have an incentive to mislead people into getting them to donate organs to help patients who can't afford to purchase them.
Or, on the other hand, doctors may feel the need to encourage people to sell their organs rather than donate them so that doctors can make money off of wealthier patients.
We think that either way this perverts the duty that doctors have to do what is ultimately best for their patients and introduces money into the equation where it shouldn't be there.
So for these three reasons we should not legalize organ trades.
Thank you.