The one child policy brought more good than harm.
So, just so everyone's clear what this debate is about, the people's republic of china had a policy throughout the nineteen eighties, nineties, and two-thousands, which limited families to one child per couple.
So basically, there was a large fee if you were found to have a second child.
, a fee that was so high that most families probably couldn't even afford it.
So with that in mind, obviously there are gonna be harms on both sides of this debate, but we're going to tell you that the good that the one child policy did outweighs the harms.
Our first argument is about how this created stability in china.
So, recognize that the one child policy reduced the food strain on the country.
China is a country with a booming population, in the twentieth century had difficulty providing enough food in order to be self sufficient.
China was unable to rely on international supplies of food because one, their population was so great that other countries couldn't supply them, and two, they had strained diplomatic relationships with the US and the soviet union that prevented food imports.
So we see that the one child policy let the population grow more slowly relative to the rate of technology improving, which ultimately allowed the country to achieve total food security which has prevented any famine or hunger in the country for the last thirty years.
Our second argument is that it led to less unemployment.
We see that china now has a very low rate of unemployment and that this is been true for several years.
The reason why this is the case is that the population has grown relatively slowly.
What that means is that as the economy has grown, new jobs are created and we've allowed the job creation to catch up with the population.
If people had continued to have many many children than the population would have grown exponentially, and ultimately the economy would have been unable to keep up.
And our third point is that it created stability by leading to fewer youths to adults.
If you look at the problems china had in the mid twentieth century during periods like the so called great leap forward, one of them was that you had many urban youths who were very radicalized relative to the older population, and who outnumber that older population.
We see that china has had relative stability because when parents have fewer children they're better able to look out for their children and prevent them from becoming radicalized, and also that when you have fewer young people it's more difficult for radical youth movements to take off.
All this has made china a more stable country which has ultimately improved the quality of life for all of the people who live there.
Before our second argument, we wanna look at some more explicit ways that this has affected quality of life.
First, in terms of accumulated wealth.
When you have lots of children you are investing your income into those children and betting that that will pay off as an investment.
You're gambling that your children will take care of you when you're old effectively.
But when people don't have children, they still have that same income and they still need to provide for their old age.
This means that they invest.
That might be in property, it might be in the markets or in business, but ultimately we see that the chinese people have been able to accumulate more personal wealth because of the one child policy, because they were putting their money into other vehicles besides children.
This means that the average chinese person is able to retire more comfortably, and ultimately that there's more money in the economy moving around to have how growth and development in the form of investment.
Our second argument is that the one child policy was good for development.
Because when the state was able to spend more money on things like roads and infrastructure instead of on childcare programs because parents were more able to provide for their families, we see that the country was able to advance very rapidly.
You saw china to go from a very poor rural country to a middle income very urban country.
I don't know if you've ever seen a photo of shanghai in nineteen ninety versus today, but the difference is shocking in how much larger the city is.
And all of this rapid growth has been made possible because of people saving money to invest, and because the state doesn't have to worry about carrying as much for families because with only one child even the poorest farmers can look out for themselves.
So for these two reasons, because of the stability that the one child policy created, and because of the increased quality of life, we think that the policy did more good than harm.
Thank you.