We should not get rid of speed limits.
While tim is correct that nobody actually follows speed limit laws and that the speed at which people are traveling is not the only factor which determines how safe they are, ultimately speed limits do help to set norms and at the same time speed is an important factor in how much danger people are in during accidents.
The first thing I'd like to talk about is stopping time.
The speed at which you are traveling dramatically affects how quickly your car is able to come to a complete stop.
If you were in a situation where do to an emergency you need to stop your car immediately, there's a huge difference between going thirty five and forty five miles an hour or sixty five and eighty miles an hour.
So even if it's true that people are not solely at risk because of speed, people's ability to come to a complete stop is limited by this factor and ultimately they pose a risk to everyone else around them if they're traveling at an unsafe speed.
And I'd like to point out that most people are really bad at gauging how fast it is safe to go.
If you're like my mom, then you think that you should always go very slow even when that means you're putting other people at risk because you're not driving safely and if you're like my brother, then you think you should drive eighty miles an hour all the time even though that puts other people at risk.
But I think that because stopping time is so abstract and because we don't often have to slam on the brakes that people really can't be expected to calculate this for themselves, and that therefore speed limits ought be set which give people an appropriate amount of time to stop based on the circumstances that they're in.
So you should have to drive more slowly in a neighborhood, for instance, than on a two lane divided highway.
Our second argument is about why speed limits are necessary in some circumstances.
Even if you don't agree with me that we always need speed limits in order so that people can stop in time, you should agree that there are circumstances in which speed limits are appropriate.
To give an example, when there is work going on at the side of a highway, perhaps they're mowing the grass on the verge or something like that, then it's appropriate to require people to drive more slowly so that they don't pose a threat to the lives of the workmen.
Someone who's going sixty five miles an hour might not be able to see a workman in time and stop or might pose a greater risk to them than someone going forty miles an hour.
So we think it's appropriate to limit people's speed in these circumstances.
Making people slow down near school playgrounds or youth soccer fields might be another example of a time when we want people to be going slowly and paying close attention so that they don't pose a threat to any children who might run out into the road in that environment.
So I think we can win this debate because we need speed limits sometimes because the other team has to explain to you why categorically we should get rid of speed limits and that's a ridiculous claim.
They need to tell you why you should be able to go sixty miles an hour past a schoolyard if they're going to win this debate.
And our final argument is about why cars are simply unsafe at certain speeds.
Now I know the other side is going to talk about the autobahn in this debate, but one problem that we see with people driving whatever speed they want on the highway is that not every car is safe to drive at high speeds.
If you drive a nineteen ninety honda, you probably shouldn't be going sixty five miles an hour or a hundred kilometers per hour or whatever the normal highway speed is, because your car is very slow to accelerate and very slow to decelerate and ultimately not up to the standards of modern cars.
If everyone drove a relatively new BMW then maybe it would be safe for people to go at very high speeds because they would have high performance cars.
But when most people drive old poorly maintained cars and can't even be trusted to turn on their lights in the rain, we just don't think they should be allowed to drive eighty five miles an hour.
They pose a threat to other people and to themselves when they do so.
For all these reasons, we should not get rid of the speed limit.
Thank you.