We should ban homeopathy.
So just so that we're all clear what we're talking about, by homeopathy we don't mean all alternative medicines.
We're talking specifically about a belief that if you dilute a substance that its essence somehow becomes stronger in the water.
So, for instance, if you wanted to use antimony in a homeopathic remedy, you would have one part per million of antimony in the water and then dilute it even more till it was one part per billion, and then dilute it even more until there was no antimony whatsoever in the water that people are actually purchasing, but the homeopath believes or claims that some essence of the antimony is left behind in the water, and they could do this with any other chemical or substance as well.
So, three arguments for why we should ban homeopathy.
The first is a standard for when we think government should paternalize, intervene and prevent people from taking some action.
First: if there's a third-party harm, then we think that, obviously, the government should get involved.
Everyone is okay with people banning smoking because of the harms of secondhand smoke.
We're okay with requiring people to make their children wear seat belts because of the harm to the child if they don't so this.
We think that, broadly speaking, homeopathy works in a similar way.
The people who do debate, a lot of healthy young college students, might not be at a lot of risk from homeopathy because if one of us gets pneumonia, we're young, we're healthy.
Our body will probably just fight it off, even if we're just taking expensive water, rather than real medicine.
But for the elderly or for children, this is very, very, very different.
If you have a parent who were to give their young child a homeopathic remedy when they had bronchitis or pneumonia or some other relatively serious, but not usually life-threatening illness, that child runs a much greater risk of being harmed as a result of this homeopathic treatment, because the body of a young child is not as well able to fight off the illness as a healthy young adult.
The same thing is true for the elderly, who may be misled by a caretaker into taking some homeopathic remedy that actually does nothing for them, and they run the risk of developing a much more serious illness.
The second time when we'd say the state can paternalize is when there is an asymmetry of access to information, and this is certainly true for homeopathy.
Recognize that it's not a bunch of, you know, hippies and grandmas whipping up these remedies in their kitchen to help out their kids.
It is major companies that sell homeopathic drugs nationally and internationally.
It's a big business and these companies know full well that homeopathy doesn't work, because all the scientific research points to that.
So what they do is they mislead their customers into thinking that they'll get care.
They put things on their boxes like treatment for pneumonia or treatment for cold, even though there's no treatment for the common cold, even though this doesn't do anything to cure pneumonia.
And, ultimately, we think that people are being misled and that the government should intervene: one, to protect third parties and two, to protect people from misinformation.
Our second argument is that we think this would encourage more development of real medicine.
Why is this true?
If people spent more money on real medicine than they do right now because they weren't buying homeopathic medicines, then it stands to reason that there would be an even greater incentive to develop cures for the types of illnesses people tend to use homeopathy for, things like the flu, the cold, etcetera.
We think, ultimately, even if this is small, it's still better on our side.
Our third argument is that we think that you should punish the companies that produce homeopathic drugs.
These companies for hundreds of, not hundreds of years but for decades, close to a hundred years, these companies have gotten away with selling sugar water to people who can't really afford it in order to trick them into thinking that they're receiving a cure, but really to profit, because there's virtually no expense to producing homeopathic drugs.
At the end of the day, we think that these companies deserve to lose their investment because they've acted unethically by misleading their customers.
If anything, we would be okay with going after them and prosecuting them for misrepresentation in advertising, but at the very least, we should ban their income stream.
For these reasons, I'm proud to encourage that we should ban homeopathy.
Thank you.