We should not ban abortions.
We're going to give you two positive points of material, the first about the rights of mothers and the second about the implausibility of a total ban on abortion, and then move into a bit of rebuttal against the previous speaker.
So with regards to the rights of the mother, I think that it's clear that what this debate boils down to is a right between current er a rights conflict between current people and future people.
What we can see is that the mother is already a citizen who has certain rights from society or nature or wherever it is that rights arise from and that the fetus has potential to grow into such a person but is not one right now.
A fetus doesn't participate in society so they don't have rights by convention and they haven't been born yet so they probably don't have the kind of rights from nature that the mother has.
So we think that obviously there are trade offs to be made in this round and we aren't saying that the fetus has no rights but we think that we should always defer to the notion of protecting people who are already citizens, already participants in society versus protecting people who might, if everything goes right, eventually grow into such a person.
I think it's clear for instance that at some point the fetus is not a person.
Right?
When they're like a zygote and they're a handful of cells, that they're clearly not a human being the way that you or I are.
And it also seems intuitively true that after nine months of pregnancy the fetus probably is a person and we should probably protect them at that point.
So it's unclear when the transition is but I don't think that's very important to that debate because the other team is banning abortions as a rule.
We can defend, say, first trimester abortions when it's clear that the fetus is not yet a person.
We don't have to defend the worst type of abortion.
We think that fundamentally under this as well that it is an abuse of state power to coerce the mother.
We think that everyone in society is given the right to choose how to use their own body and that that ought to include choosing not to carry a baby to term.
Particularly we when this is very painful and dangerous and limits one's ability to work and to engage in society otherwise.
We think it's unfair for the state to target this one group of people, pregnant women, and not other groups of people who also have anti social behavior.
So our next point is that it's impossible to stop abortions.
I think a good example of this is that ireland legalized abortion relatively late and still has lots of restrictions on it.
So most women either get illegal abortions done in ireland or they go to the UK instead.
So you can't stop individuals from actually getting abortions.
People have done it throughout human history in lots of dangerous ways.
We think that it would much better to allow abortion and regulate it and maybe provide things like counseling and obviously to have it done by doctors rather than by untrained people to protects the health and safety of the people who are getting these abortions.
Because at the end of the day if you can't stop people from doing something, and you simply can't, then you need to actually step in and make it as safe as possible to protect the people who are getting these abortions.
Particularly when in many cases its young people or low income people who don't have access to a lot of education or resources to go to another country to have something done safely.
We also tell you that you'll never stop abortion because even if you set aside that the drugs to do it are freely available online from other countries, or that people will try to use dangerous techniques, the incentive to get an abortion is so great that people's decision making will never change even if you ban it.
So a brief point of response: if as the previous speaker says, rights come from convention, from people's agreement about what rights are, then we think it's perfectly fine to kill the fetus if there is no right by convention.
If you buy the argument that we heard from the last speaker, that a society can choose to legalize abortion and this is no longer any sort of rights violation, because by that speakers own claim, this is just a right by convention, so we can all agree not to grant this right.
But I'd also like to point out another important distinction, which is that the fetus is not yet a child.
A child is biologically independent from the mother in a way that the fetus is not.
So we don't kill a child because we can put it up for adoption or have it go to foster care and grow up to live a happy life but we can't do this with the fetus.
Biologically it is inseparable from the mother so we don't think it's fair to treat them as though they were one and the same.
So for these reasons we should not ban abortions.
Thank you