We should ban male infant circumcision.
So the practice is probably familiar enough, it's when the foreskin is removed from a male baby.
This is extremely common in many cultures such as judaism, islam and certain branches of christianity.
It's also commonly practiced even in secular hospitals in the united states and some other countries.
So we have three arguments for why we think this practice should be banned.
And I'd like to point out that we're only talking about infants here, not people who later convert to judaism or other religions.
So first of all, we think that there's a gross rights violation in allowing parents to circumcise their children.
The other team is very likely going to get up here and say that we ought defer to parents in the same way that we let them make decisions about their children's education or other important parts of their life.
But recognize that most countries around the world don't let children get tattoos.
In fact, many countries in europe don't even let you pierce your children's ears until they're of a certain age.
We don't see why something equally permanent and much more potentially damaging to their psyche and future happiness should be permitted while those things are banned.
We think that it's absurd to say that there's a religious rights claim when babies presumably don't practice any religion.
In the same way that we don't allow other forms of harmful body modification, because they violate the right of the child in the future, we think the same is true of circumcision.
The other team might try to tell you that circumcision is harmless and that babies don't remember it, but first response, it is still tremendously painful, we see that babies cry and have to go through post operation treatment after this, but secondly it reduces sexual function later in life, so we think it's a decision that should be left up to individuals rather than one made for them by their parents.
Our second argument is that we don't think that doctors ought be able to participate in this.
To implications of this: so the warrant for why we think doctor shouldn't be able to do this is that they swear a hippocratic oath to do no harm, and clearly removing healthy tissue from a newborn baby is doing some harm.
So what are the two worlds look like?
Either you have doctors perform the operation, in which case they are violating their oath and we think ultimately not acting in good faith when they swear that oath, or you of non medical practitioners doing this, as is common in some orthodox jewish communities.
These people are untrained and often unprepared to perform a delicate surgery.
We think there's a greater risk of damage to the child's body and that ultimately that's unacceptable.
Even if the risk is fairly low, we shouldn't be taking on that risk for children.
Our third and final argument is that this forces religious norms onto people at birth.
So we tell you that while it may be true that someone's parents practice religion that believes this is a good thing, there's no guarantee that the child will follow that religion.
For instance, if your parents are jewish or muslim there's no guarantee that you will grow up to practice those religions.
Perhaps you'll convert to another religion that doesn't require circumcision or perhaps you won't practice the religion at all.
We think that in effect circumcision is an attempt to lock a child and to a certain religious practice and world view from an early age through body modification.
We think that this limits the ability of that child to access other world views, because they've already had their body modified in this way.
Subconsciously, we think it's quite likely that when they grow up and learn about this, that that's likely to influence their views in a way that is beyond their own control.
We think that people in liberal societies ought to have the freedom to determine what religious beliefs are right for them, what is ultimately in their own best interest and that circumcision denies them this ability, not only by changing their physical body but also quite likely the way that the interact with other people and the way that they think about the world.
At that point we think that it's clear that it ought be banned because it's a rights violation for these children on multiple fronts.
So for these reasons we should ban circumcision for infant males.
Thank you.