We should not ban herbal medicine.
The first reason why we feel that these medicines should not be banned is that they are part of the traditional beliefs of many cultures.
Although most people living in highly developed countries today probably don't have a strong opinion about their own ancestral medical beliefs we think that for many people such as the first nations of canada and native americans, use of traditional herbs and traditional remedies is an important part of their culture.
We think that at that point it would be wrong to ban these medicines even if they were actively harmful because these people have been historically oppressed by the governments and not allowed to practice their culture fully.
We think that at this point we have an obligation not to continue to oppress these people and deny them access to their culture simply because there is some material aspect of western culture that might have better outcomes for people than the traditional beliefs.
With this in mind we don't think that countries can ban this medicine because it would be oppressive to their native peoples.
Our second reason why we don't think we should ban these herbal medicines is about government overreach.
We think that government should intervene in three instances to limit people's freedom, but otherwise should allow people to have the maximum amount of freedom possible and we don't think that standards have been met here.
So first, third party harms: who actually is harmed by taking an herbal medicine that doesn't work?
Probably only the person consuming it.
So we think at that point, when there's no harm to anyone else there's no reason not to allow people to consume these herbal medicines in order to treat their own illnesses.
Next we would think the government might intervene if there was a asymmetry of information.
So by this we mean, if for instance, corporations were lying about the efficacy of these herbal medicines or if people were otherwise misled into thinking that they did things that they don't really do.
How can we solve for these things without this type of regulation?
Well first of all, we think that you can put warning labels on packaging and otherwise make information available to people about these types of herbal medicine.
We don't think that it's the case that you need to ban something and use the harshest possible measure when there are many smaller things that you could do instead in order to prevent people from being taken advantage of or possibly harmed.
And if there is a risk to a certain herbal medicine that actually could injure or poison people then we're fine with banning that but we think that in general this is a round about herbal medicines that are safe for human consumption.
Our last argument is about why there's no compelling public interest.
We think that, for instance, public health care costs are unlikely to go up because people are taking herbal medicines.
Why is this true?
So think about when people would actually take an herbal medicine.
It's probably if they have a cold or a headache, not when they have a really serious illness.
We think that, for instance, people who have the kind of medicine or the kind of illness that might require tylenol or another cold medicine might be ones who would replace that instead with an herbal medicine.
We don't think that you're going to see people who have pneumonia or bronchitis or some serious illness not going to the hospital because they think an herbal medicine would help them better.
So for this reason we don't think there's any compelling public interest to intervene since these aren't the kind of illnesses that people would be going to a doctor for anyway.
So the last thing to talk about is the trade off between use of traditional and non traditional medicines or herbal and other medicines.
So we think that ultimately there's a low opportunity cost of people buying herbal medicines to use in place of traditional medicines.
So somebody might spend twenty dollars on herbal medicines, but we don't think that that's going to prevent them from accessing any other type of care in the long term.
So for this reason we think the trade off is more or less acceptable.
So for these three reasons ultimately we think that we should not ban herbal medicine.
Thank you.