We should subsidize electric cars.
So in this debate we're not talking about hybrid cars like a prius, we're talking about fully electric cars like the tesla.
And I think that we're talking about countries that already have a domestic industry surrounding these cars.
So places like the US, like germany, like japan, that are already manufacturing electric cars today.
So with that in mind we have two main points.
The first, it's about the environment and the second is about domestic industry.
So in terms of the environment, we think it's clear that we need to move towards electric cars in order to reduce the use of fossil fuels.
We see that transportation is one of the primary drivers of fossil fuel emissions in the status quo.
People are using way too much gasoline to get work every day and we could drastically reduce that by using electric cars.
Why is this true?
First of all energy production at the grid bubble is much more effective.
So in terms of actually reducing carbon emissions the grid is already much cleaner than any individual car.
In countries like the US, germany, japan, you have a mix of alternative energies playing into that grid and you also the use of things like natural gas, you're not just burning a bunch of gasoline.
So we see that we need people to be driving electric cars and the way to do that is to reduce the cost.
If you make it so that a tesla costs about the same amount as you know, a new ford then people are going to be much more likely to be willing to buy the tesla.
But on top of that, we tell you that you can also facilitate the development of new technology that will benefit the environment in the future.
By subsidizing electric cars you don't just get cars at the end.
You get better batteries, you get a better understanding of alternative fuel sources, you get people who are doing research into other sustainable uses of this technology.
So ultimately we think that although you put a lot of money into this one project, the benefits will disperse widely.
If you want an example of how this has worked in the past, think about the moon landing.
It's actually useless to send a man to the moon but the technology that we got from that, things like microwaves, things like ballpoint pens, all of these great things that we have today that make our lives better, are a result of that one project.
We think that investing heavily in electric cars could have a similar spillover affect.
Our second point is about domestic industry.
So when you subsidize electric cars in your own country you put a lot of money into research and development in your country.
We think this means that more young people will go into those fields that are being subsidized.
So you'll have more engineers, more scientists, all these other things which will ultimately make your country more competitive in the long term in the high tech sector and in automotives as well.
We also see that by subsidizing this you're going to see increased production of electric cars.
Which means that you'll create manufacturing jobs.
Recognize that manufacturing for subsidized industries like defense is already a major source of good, union jobs in countries like the US and germany that have large arms industry.
We just want to extend that into the civilian sphere through electric cars.
And on top of that, we think that you're also going to have a new industry bloom up in order to service all of these electric cars.
Right now very few people are licensed or able to service electric cars but if you put millions more of them on the road through subsidies, than we think that ultimately you're going to see an industry crop up that will create new jobs for people to supply and service these cars.
Now the other team might tell you that by putting all of this money into subsidies you're helping people who already have enough money, who don't really need any help, because the lowest income people aren't going to be purchasing electric cars.
But we think that the benefits to the environment and the job benefits created will ultimately help some of those who are in a difficult economic position right now.
There will be more good jobs for people without a college degree from this manufacturing and also more opportunities for people to go on to do higher education as a result of these subsidies for things like engineering and so on.
So for these two reasons, the both benefits to the environment and benefits to domestic industry, we should subsidize electric cars.
Thank you.