ADHD management brings more good than harm.
So I think what this debate is really about is whether or not the use of medications like ritalin and adderall to treat ADHD, especially for children, is a good thing.
And I think the wording of the topic necessarily means that this is comparative.
There's going to be some benefits and some drawbacks and both sides should acknowledge that, and we're talking about which is ultimately more important and which outweighs the other.
So we're going to talk first about why we think these treatments allow people with ADHD to lead more fulfilling lives.
So recognize that ADHD is an illness.
It's not that different than having a physical ailment.
And when people have a physical ailment that prevents them from working or going to school or living fulfilling lives we treat that ailment.
Even if there are drawbacks.
You know wearing a cast on a broken arm makes it more difficult to play soccer, say, but in the long run it'll make you better off and more able to participate in society so we're okay with that temporary drawback.
I think that for many people ADHD treatments work in a similar way.
Particularly for children there might be some drawbacks in terms of their ability to focus and succeed outside of school or some potential social harms to taking these medications but in the long term because they're able to get an education they're able to work and support themselves and help others better on our side.
So we think that particularly with educational success, many children with ADHD struggle to succeed in schools and not only did they struggle to succeed in their classes but they take away resources from other children because they demand more attention from educators.
So we think that these children and anyone else who's in class with them are better off if they're receiving treatment in the long term in terms of receiving educational success.
And this extends into the workplace as well.
Of course if people are educated and they're better able to get a job but also if you're receiving treatment and you're better able to succeed at that job, to train others to be productive, to help your company or whoever you work for and ultimately be a productive member of society in that respect as well.
We also think that your mental health is likely to be better.
Because people who struggle to find employment or to succeed educationally often experience anxiety or depression and we think that those can be mitigated by giving people the tools they need to succeed in work and education and that often means treating their ADHD.
So in the long term, we think that people with ADHD can better lead fulfilling happy lives as a result of these treatments.
So we think that they are something that's good on balance.
Certainly some people have adverse reactions, but we think that if you look at the broad scope of millions of people who are affected by this illness, more people are going to benefit them be harmed.
Our second point is on a more societal level.
We've talked about the individual, what's good for people as a whole.
So we think that many people who struggle with mental illness like ADHD struggle to participate in society.
They have are hard time getting an education and getting a job so they're dependent on things like government support or rely on family members to care for them even into adulthood and in general are not able to thrive and succeed as well as they should otherwise.
This is a tremendous cost because in order for society to provide for everyone in need everyone who's able bodied has to be able to work and to produce so that we can take care of those who can't support themselves.
This means that treatments that allow people to be able bodied, to be able to help others are going to be a good thing and we think that ADHD treatments are a good example of this where people who might otherwise not be contributing as much to society as others are now able to contribute a great deal and that means that we can support people who can't contribute like children, like the disabled, like people in need.
So I think that the comparative is much better off for people who can't help themselves.
We also think that you reduce any social behaviors.
If people can't succeed in the workplace, they're probably more likely to turn to crime and issues like that and we think that if you can reduce this by encouraging people to receive treatment for mental illness like ADHD that ultimately that's going to be good for society as well and make everyone safer.
So in the long run we think that society will be better off as a result of ADHD management techniques like certain drugs like adderall and ritalin.
So because this is good for individuals and for society we think that this does more good than harm.
Thank you.