We should subsidize agriculture.
So I think it's important that when we talk about this debate that we think about the businesses that are actually benefiting.
We tell you that what's going to happen when you subsidize agriculture is that farmers will produce more food and be more willing to take risks as a result of this policy because the risk is being shifted on to the public and off of the private farmer.
With that in mind, three arguments: first, this will lower food prices.
So recognize that right now when companies receive subsidies to produce agricultural products that they produce more.
A farmer who, let's say, would produce a thousand pounds of cheese without a subsidy might now produce eleven hundred pounds of cheese because of the subsidy.
The result of this is that now there's more cheese on the market for the same number of consumers.
This means that prices will go down.
We can see that as supply grows and demand remains constant prices ultimately decrease.
But at the point where consumers are still going to buy this cheese because it's now cheaper, we think farmers will be okay and we think that the subsidy will also help the farmer to overcome any decrease in prices that will hurt him on his end.
This is really beneficial of course for the obvious reason that it helps people, especially low income people, to purchase food.
We think that at the end of the day farm subsidies work as a sort of social welfare benefit where they drive down food cost for everybody.
Obviously this is helpful for the kind of people who would be using things like the supplementary nutritional assistance program and other welfare programs in the united states, as an example, that give people money to purchase food, their dollar now goes farther when they go to the grocery store.
Our second argument is about preventing supply fluctuations.
So without subsidies we think it's likely that the agribusiness would be more prone to having huge fluctuations in supply.
Why is this true?
Right now farmers produce much more food than there is an actual demand for because the government is subsidizing their production.
So they want to grow as much as they can, even if nobody wants to eat it.
What this means is that if farms in israel had a bad year, then farms in another country that also had subsidized agriculture would be having a good year and because of the subsidy in a given year both sets of farms would be producing as much food as possible.
So if you had a decline in production in israel and, let's say, good production in I don't know, bulgaria, than you would be able to import that food and it would be there because of the subsidy.
Without subsidies farmers would only produce the food that there was an immediate demand for.
So a fall in production in one part of the world could lead to famine or a drastic increase in prices in another part of the world.
We think that we avoid these fluctuations relatively better on our side of the house through subsidies because everyone is always producing at closer to maximum capacity.
And I think this is a big reason why there are so many fewer famines today than in the early twentieth century.
Is because governments like the american and chinese governments subsidize agriculture so highly that if any one country around the world has a shortfall in production, they can import food from these major food producing countries.
Clearly this benefit a reduction in famine is going to save lives around the world and outweigh any harm that they can tell you about on the other side.
Our last point is why we think this encourages innovation.
The biggest barrier to innovation is the fear that the money you invest in a new technique is going to not pay off.
This is why people who are conservatively minded tend not to innovate.
It's a risk and you might not get your money back.
But by subsidizing agriculture we make it much more likely that you'll actually get some return on your innovation because at least part of the risk is being borne by the public.
So this means that farmers will be more willing to adopt things like new strains of crops, new agricultural technologies and these things either will increase production because they're more effective, or they'll teach scientists and engineers and other people what techniques do and don't work.
So we think that this is a tremendously valuable type of information to have so that we can continue to innovate and produce more food with fewer resources and less land.
So for these reasons, because of lower food prices, to prevent fluctuations and to encourage innovation, we should subsidize agriculture.
Thank you.