We should legalize organ trade.
So, what we mean by this is that, individual should be allowed to buy and sell organs on a regulated market.
Right now, if you need an organ, say, you need a kidney transplant, in most countries, like the US or britain, you get put on a list, and you get promoted up the list, as people ahead of you either you know receive a kidney, or pass away.
There's no way to advance yourself forward, there's no way to be sure that you get a particular kidney, and the rate at which people are advanced on the list is determined solely by the number of organ donors giving up a kidney, at a given time.
So, we're saying that you should be able to sweeten the pot a little bit, that individual should be allowed, regardless of their position on the waitlist, we're okay with keeping the wait list for organs that are, you know, given by the deceased, things like that, but for individuals on the wait list, you should be able to purchase an organ from a willing donor at a fixed price.
We're not going to have the like some mad max madness, we're going to have regulations in place, we'll be sure that people are consulting with doctors and attorneys at every step of the process, so that it's very fair and carefully monitored.
Three arguments for why this should be the case.
One: the market would solve supply problems.
Thousands of people in the US, about a thousand people a year in britain, die because they're on an organ waiting list.
They have no way to save their own lives, or those of a loved one, because the only way to advance on this list is for people ahead of you to receive treatment.
We think that, there are very few organs available relative to the number of people who need organs, because there's very little incentive to donate right now.
Basically, you just need to be like a good generous person in order to be incentivized to give up an organ.
But most people, realistically speaking, aren't going to give up a kidney, that they might need one day, out of a spirit of altruism.
We think that forty thousand dollars would probably change their mind.
We think that, on the free market you would likely see that the price of organs would be very very high, but that this would incentivize many more donors, so the overall supply would increase, because realize that, the free organs that exist right now don't go away.
Most of them are from people who die in motor accidents, and were organ donors, things like that.
So, that supply remains constant, you will only see an increase as more people who are healthy are willing to donate part of their liver, or donate a kidney.
We think therefore that, fewer people will die, obviously this is preferable to the status quo.
The second point we have to make is that, even if it's principally unfair that rich people are going to be able to get organs, and poor people are not, as a result of this, we think that it's wrong to let people die over a principle.
Recognized that, whether you're a millionaire or whether you're a million dollars in debt, ultimately you still have a right to life.
We think that it's wrong to force people to stay on a list, when there are organs available, in theory if there were an open market, that no one can claim, and then those people die.
We think that you need to allow people to do what is in their own interest, inasmuch as they're not harming anyone else.
We think that, if anything, as more wealthy people purchase organs on the private market, you would have fewer people competing for those donated organs, and ultimately this would help low income people too.
Indeed, it seems that a rising tide would lift all boats.
Our last argument is that, this is the only way to help people with certain rare conditions or genetics.
Recognize that, you can't just, you know, take any old organ and slap it in somebody, and then sow'em up and call it a day.
They need to have certain genes in common, they need to have the same blood type, all of these things.
What this means is that, if you have a rare gene, or a rare blood type, or if you are a minority ethnicity, then you're going to have a much harder time getting an organ, than some white american with o negative type blood and no special genes.
We think that, if these people could propose a bounty effectively, asking someone with the relevant genes to donate, that it would be much more likely that they would receive an organ.
In the status quo, they're effectively condemned to death.
So, because we think the market would increase the supply, because it's wrong to kill people for principle, and because it helps people with rare genetics, we should legalize the organ trade.
Thank you.