We should ban racial profiling.
So, racial profiling is when the police or other security officials stop, detain, even arrest somebody, solely because of their racial appearance.
So, this might mean that you're at an airport and the security choose to stop one person who, looks like they might be arab or even is wearing some sort of muslim head covering or otherwise appears like they might be part of a group that a stereo typically associated with terrorism.
And by ban we think that should be categorically ruled out as a policing tactic and we think that this should be the case in liberal countries around the world.
So two big arguments.
The first, is that racial profiling is unjust.
We have a few reasons why.
Recognize, that race and related factors like religion in many cases are immutable characteristics.
By this we mean that people don't choose to be a certain race and they can't change it.
If you happen to be born as an arab or black or hispanic, you didn't choose that and there's nothing you can do to change that about yourself.
We think that these immutable characteristics ought be protected classes, because at the end of the day it seems wrong to punish people for something that they had no control over.
Next, we think that it is unjust because it's arbitrary to use this sort of racial profiling.
Many people who are white americans go around committing crimes, many terrorists in the united states are white christians, not arab muslims, so it seems arbitrary to go after this one group, even if perhaps in the past some members of that group have committed a crime.
At the end of the day we think the law cannot be arbitrary, that it needs to have the same standards for everyone otherwise there is no rule of law, it's just punishing some people unfairly and unjustly.
And lastly, we think it's unjust because it's racist.
Recognize that, implicit in the kind of thinking that goes into the sort of racial profiling, is the idea that a particular race is dangerous or more likely to commit a crime than other races.
I mentioned earlier that most terrorists in the united states are actually white not arab, so we see that it's fundamentally unfair that in airports and elsewhere around the country, arab americans are harassed and mistreated for something that they have nothing to do with, these people haven't been involved in a terrorism and they're not very likely to be involved in it compared to their american fellow citizens who are white.
So we see that at the end of the day this is racist, just punishing one racial group and ignoring the things that another group does because of pre conceived stereotypes.
So for these reasons, we see that racial profiling is principally unjust and we think it should be done away for, with for that reason alone.
Next, we tell you that we want to ask you how we actually prevent crime.
So first of all we think that you need intelligence, not stereotypes to prevent crime.
If for instance you know that a given airport is at risk of terrorism, then you need to think about who in the community is likely to conduct terror attack.
And it might be that you find out that it's a muslim extremist group, or you might find out that some sort of white nationalist group.
You need to really be looking into what's going on in the community, and what your intelligence is revealing to you, rather than just relying on stereotypes.
Because at the end of the day, even if stereotypes are sometimes correct, it's because even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Stereotypes are also based on unfounded information and anecdotal evidence, and we don't think that you can use that to make important decisions about law enforcement.
It won't help you to prevent crime, and if you really want to stop bad things from happening, then you need to be gathering evidence, not relying on outdated notions about certain races.
But on top of that, we think that bigotry makes criminals.
If you're a young person who gets profiled by the police, you have less of an incentive to be part of the societal systems to prevent crime.
You're going to be more skeptical about the ability of the police to be fair and unbiased, and ultimately you're not going to buy into the criminal justice system.
And we think all of those are factors that lead to people being more likely to commit crimes in the future.
And lastly, we think that this will lead to the police ignoring covert criminals.
It'll be easier basically for members of a majority group like white americans to get away with crime if the police are only looking at minority groups.
So for these reasons, we think that you won't stop as much crime, and that it's unjust to use racial profiling.
So we think that it should be banned.
Thank you.