We should adopt mobile payments.
So, I think that what this debate comes down to is that it would be preferable to the status quo if there was much more access to paying for things with mobile phones or text, things like that.
So, we see that this is already getting more popular in developing and developed countries, but we would like to see basically every business accept mobile payments in in place of cash and credit.
So, two big arguments for you.
The first is about why this would improve access to financial services.
We're going to talk about the, so called, unbanked people.
These are people who maybe they live in a developing country and they don't have access to a local bank branch, there's no, you know, whatever their version of bank of america or chases in their town or their village or their neighborhood, so these people have no way to access financial services.
They have no way to get personal credit, which makes it very difficult for them to start a business or make a large purchase, because, you know, there is if there is no bank you can't get a credit card or you can't get a personal loan, and on top of that they have no way to protect their personal wealth.
When you have a society that operates purely on cash, your money is always greatly at risk.
I was talking to a friend who lives in south africa, and he was explaining to me that people who live in these unbanked areas in south africa, these towns built near major cities, where a lot of people are very low income and there's a lot of crime, people get paid on the first through fifteenth of the month, and thieves will wait near the businesses where people work and attack them and take their paycheck, because it's all in cash.
So people feel like they have to hide their money or leave it with their employer, which means that their employer has a lot of leverage over them.
People don't think about saving money because if you keep it in your house, a thief might break into your house and take all of your wealth.
So there's no incentive to save and there's very little ability for people to actually use their money in the most effective way, they feel like they have to spend it all at once right away, and they're taken advantage of by businesses who know that this is the case.
How does this change as a result of mobile payments?
So sure, somebody can steal your cell phone, but that's very different than them stealing your wallet, because your mobile payment account you can put a freeze on it, you can otherwise take steps to prevent fraud and theft, it's regulated much more like credit cards are, than cash which is impossible to regulate.
So now people who live in these communities, like these little towns near major cities in south africa, have the ability to save, they can start a savings account using these mobile payments and put money into it even if they can never go to a bank in their whole life, they can still take advantage of a way to save for their old age and to protect themselves from emergencies.
They can access credit, because once you have a savings built up, you have something to borrow against, so we think it's more likely that they'll be able to do things like purchase a home or a piece of land or put their children through school using credit.
And we see also that there are less likely to be victims of theft and fraud, and ultimately because of that we think that this is going to be really valuable for people who are suffering in the status quo because of a lack of access to financial services.
Our second argument is about how this uniquely helps development.
So think about a country like the philippines, that's very reliant on remittances.
There's millions of filipinos living in america who send money back to the philippines every month.
Now, right now in order for this to work, people have to go to a western union or a bank in order to collect those remittances.
The country's economy is growing a lot, but only because people are able to invest and build up capital from remittances.
But what happens for those people who live in a a not so good area near manila, who don't have access to banking?
They can't take advantage of this remittance based system.
Maybe their relative can come back and visit and bring the money, maybe they can get cash from somebody, but then all of the harms I already explained to you follow through.
So we think that in terms of spreading development to the poorest areas of a developing country, it is much easier with mobile payments, because remittances can be sent instantly over the phone.
If someone has a medical emergency, their cousin in america can send them some money right away, things like that.
So, because it increases access to financial services and because it helps spread development, we should adopt mobile payments.
Thank you.