We should not lower the age of consent.
Now in this debate I'm assuming that we're talking about places where the age of consent is something like sixteen or eighteen and not, you know, maybe there's some district in the world where the age of consent is just unreasonably high, but if we're talking about places where it's one of those ages then I think that we should not not talk about the lowering it any further.
Three reasons why: first, rational decisions are much harder for teens.
The decision making apparatus in the brain isn't fully developed until you're about twenty five.
What this means is that every year that teens get older they're able to make better and better decisions biologically.
But on top of that, every decision that you make is informed by past experience.
People who have more experience are more likely to be able to make good decisions.
This is why we have the public perception that elderly people are more wise.
It's because they've had lots of experience so we can turn to them and ask them for advice because they've seen and experienced so many things.
This means that teenagers are at a huge disadvantage.
They aren't able to begin making observations at an adult level of intellect until, you know, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, let's say, people are able to really observe the world around them and understand it in a meaningful way, of like, adults.
But these people have a poverty of information, which means that they can't make good decisions.
They don't know people who got pregnant when they were too young, they don't know a lot about the risks of STDs and childbirth and all the things that go along with it.
They can't fully internalize the costs of giving up years of their life to raising a child, for instance, because they don't have that many years to think about.
So because teens cannot make rational decisions, we don't think that the state should sanction their having sex at a younger age.
Our second point is that laws should reflect the public will.
In a democracy we tell you that the law should reflect what people want the state to do.
We think that this is the reason why people have elections to determine their lawmakers and the reason why lawmakers are held accountable to the people.
So we can see that in most countries people are happy with the age of consent.
There's not a rash of liberal democracies trying to lower their age of consent any further than it is right now.
We think that this is probably because people don't think that thirteen year olds should be having sex for some of the reasons that I told you about earlier.
They might be concerned about protecting young people from predations by older people or they might just be concerned that their sons and daughters are going to make poor decisions.
Either way we think that inasmuch as one, this is not arbitrary discrimination.
Protecting young people is distinct from other forms of discrimination because they're eventually going to grow up and have adult rights.
And two, because parents probably know what's best for their children and their a huge part of the voting populace that we ought defer to the public will and the public will is to have the age of consent be somewhere between sixteen to eighteen in most free countries.
We think that it would be undemocratic and unjust for the state to lower the age of consent when people don't want that to happen.
And that it would probably lead to people having less faith in the government's ability to regulate things surrounding young people's sexual health, things like sexual education, etcetera.
Our last argument is about preventing teen pregnancy.
We think that there is a tremendous duty for the state to limit teen pregnancy for a few reasons.
First of all, for the children that are born oftentimes they have to be put up for adoption and then they go into things, like, you know foster care and that's really difficult for them growing up and we don't want people to go through that.
Or alternatively they're raised by young parents who are not as wealthy and who are less experienced and aren't able to provide for them in the same way that older parents could.
So I think that again you'll have lower quality of life for children.
And when you think about the parents it's much less likely that they, especially the mother, because oftentimes the fathers won't stay around, but especially the mother is not going to be able to go and get higher education or to get a good job.
So we think that it's anti feminist to lower the age of consent because it will actually lead to the increase in teen pregnancy that will harm the ability of women to get into the workplace, to get into higher education and to succeed and self actualize.
We saw that in the past when you had a lower age of consent or lower average age of having children that women were excluded from the workplace and we don't want to return to that.
So for all three of these reasons we should not lower the age of consent.
Thank you.