We should ban breast implants.
We're going to bring you two arguments for our side today.
The first is that this is ultimately going to create an unnecessary pressure, especially on young women, when we have breast implants around, and second is a concern about the long-term safety and viability of breast implants.
So, that said, our first argument is that there is an increased social pressure for women to be conventionally attractive because of the existence of breast implants.
A hundred years ago or even thirty years ago, there was just nothing that someone could do about their bust size.
So there was no way that they could actually augment or change this feature about themselves, and it seems likely to me that people were more understanding of the fact that some people may have a larger or smaller bust size in a world where people had no control over it.
However, in a world where there is surgery available that can increase or decrease someone's breast size, ultimately we think it's likely that people will expect others to undergo this type of surgery.
And now, an opponent might say that this just isn't true and no one has these expectations, but it certainly is true that, first of all, women are unfairly expected to look a certain way regardless of their own background or genetics, and second of all, that there's been a huge rise in cosmetic surgeries in recent years.
If you look at k-pop stars as a good example of this, many female k-pop stars have huge amounts of cosmetic surgery so that they can fit a particular mold of what the record labels and recording studios want their stars to look like.
And no matter how talented they are, the only way that they can work is to fit into this mold of what a k-pop star is meant to look like.
In the united states, we don't see this as much today, but I do think that we're moving in a direction where more and more people get cosmetic surgery and where they get it at a younger and younger age.
So, ultimately, because of the coercive forces that surround women, especially young women in our society, where they're treated as sexual objects more so than people, it's likely that people will be coerced into getting these breast implants.
And we think that that's really harmful because if people are being coerced into getting these cosmetic surgeries, they take on a lot of risks and harms to their health and also to their own self-image and their esteem.
And for people who can't access breast implants or cosmetic surgeries, whether for cost or personal or religious reasons, ultimately these people are going to feel even worse about themselves than they might in a world where these didn't exist, because the pressure to have this certain appearance will be even stronger.
Our next argument is about the long-term safety and viability of breast implants.
We think that, unfortunately, it's unlikely that breast implants are going to be safe and effective in the long term.
As people get older, naturally, their bodies change and, ultimately, these breast implants fail to adapt as one gets older.
So even if you had a very high quality silicon implant that remained very good in quality throughout a person's life, it still wouldn't be able to adapt to the changes in their body as they get older.
So it's likely that this won't just be one surgery to add the implant, but likely a sequence of surgeries over the course of one's life to adjust it as your body ages and changes with time.
So this is going to be a pretty significant amount of time that people spend getting these surgeries and recovering from them and also a pretty significant investment in capital, and we think that people are being misled about this right now.
They've been told, " oh, there were problems with old breast implants, but the new ones won't have these problems, " but until we get to the point where these breast implants have been implemented long enough that we have lots of data, we just have no way of knowing whether they're going to be safe in the long term or what follow-up surgeries will be needed in the long term.
So people are being fed bad information and, ultimately, aren't able to make a good decision because of that bad information.
So because of the pressure this creates on women, especially young women, and because of the likelihood of long-term problems, we should ban breast implants.
Thank you.