We should not legalize insider trading.
So, we're going to argue that investors should be limited to using publicly available information to make their investment decisions and that countries should take criminal action to prosecute people who use non-public information to make their decisions.
This is already the law in the US, britain, and the european union, but we think that it should be adopted in every major country that has a stock exchange.
So our first argument is about conflicts of interest.
We think that when people are able to use private information to invest, suddenly they have an incentive to guide the company in a way that will make them the most money rather than what's best for the shareholders.
Let me unpack this a little bit.
First of all, if you are a an employee or executive of a company, you have a legal obligation to do what is in the best interest of your company shareholders.
So we think that fundamentally the primary obligation of the employees of a company, the people who are most likely to have that insider information, is to benefit the shareholders, but suddenly what happens, if you can trade based on insider information, is that employees can use knowledge they have, that shareholders do not have, because it's private, to make decisions about whether or not to trade shares of that company.
So now employees have much more of an incentive to govern the company in such a way that it will make money for people with insider information than for the shareholders in general.
So you have a conflict of interest because employees can benefit from using this insider information or from making decisions in their work that would privilege themselves and their position at the expense of the shareholders, which we think would lead to a failing in that obligation they have to do what's in the best interest of shareholders.
So we think that's the first reason that insider trading ought to remain illegal.
Our second argument is that this is unfair to general investors.
Right now, in the market, you basically have free exchange of information so that people can make decisions about where to invest.
What happens when you allow insider trading is that suddenly individuals who have, through unique connections or certain social privileges, access to this insider information will be able to invest more effectively than anyone else.
Now this is differently than different than existing disadvantages some people face in the market, because while it's true that right now the people who work at major investment banks might have certain relationships that let them get access to advice or information, all of the information they access is public, which means that the playing field is level, even if some people are better players.
With insider information, suddenly the playing field is no longer level, and there's no way that even the most talented or skilled investors would be able to participate equally if they lack access to this insider information.
So we think it's unfair to those people and that the market works best when everyone has equal access to it.
And our final argument is how this could lead to abuse by regulators.
If you are someone who regulates a particular industry, you have access to a lot of information that the public isn't privy to.
For instance, you know about certain industry secrets or decisions being made by corporations from your role as a regulator.
If these regulators were able to invest based on the unique information which they have access to, we think that that would not only be unfair for all the reasons listed above, but also compromise their ability to act fairly as regulators, because instead they would have an incentive to make decisions as regulators that would profit themselves rather than be good for forcing companies to follow the law or be good for society.
So we think that would introduce a conflict of interest that would ultimately undermine regulatory efforts.
So for all these reasons, we should not legalize insider trading.
Thank you.