We should not ban alternative medicine.
In my speech I'm going to explain to you first, why we think that this is actually beneficial for people's health secondly, why the standards for paternalism brought it in the last speech simply don't hold true and thirdly, why this would create a black market that would actually be much worse than what we see in the status quo.
So first, how is this actually beneficial to people's health and this runs contrary to what we just heard from karina.
We would tell you that first of all, this is beneficial to people's health because of the placebo effect that they experience.
We tell you that even if people aren't actually receiving real benefits from taking these supplements, they think that they are and as a result they do have a better quality of life or feel better.
So we think therefore that this she does do something that's beneficial to people and that the placebo effect is a real tool that can be used in treatments.
But on top of that, I just like to push back on this idea that these are used in place of traditional medicines.
We think that alternative medicines are normally used in conjunction with other types of medicine.
So people aren't just going to stop going to the emergency room because they take alternative medicines.
These are probably going to be used for conditions that are more minor and I realize that there were some high profile cases like when steve jobs tried to cure cancer with fruit but at the end of the day, most people who use alternative medicines either do so because of lack of access to other types of medicine, which I think undercuts a lot of what we heard about this taking advantage of low income people, or secondly, they use it in conjunction with traditional medicine or I should say with western medicine.
Our second point is about paternalism.
We think that there are three times when the government should step in to ban something.
First, if there's an asymmetry of information second, if there's a power imbalance between two parties in a contract and third, if there are harms to third parties.
We think that the information asymmetry here is irrelevant because nobody really believes that alternative medicine is held to the same standards as western medicine.
But we do think that what's important here is that people know how they feel so we think that people can make an intelligent decision for themself based on whether that placebo effect they experience actually helps their health.
Secondly, we think that there's no real power imbalance here because this is mostly being in exchange freely between people who are buying something that's basically a luxury good.
So we think that the demand is very elastic.
It's not like you have an oil company jacking up prices that really hurts people.
This is something that people choose to consume freely that they're not compelled to use.
And lastly, in terms of third party harms.
I think it would be very difficult to prove that there's any third party harm here.
The other side could talk about children who are given these drugs by their parents but if people are bad parents banning alternative medicine isn't going to make them good parents suddenly.
So I just don't think that this can actually solve that problem.
The last thing I'd like to talk about is the black market that this creates.
We tell you that ultimately if you ban alternative medicine, people won't stop taking it.
Just like today, there are people who buy powdered products made from endangered animals, for instance, like rhino horn.
If you banned alternative medicine people would still buy it on the black market.
At least if it's legal you're able to regulate it and tax it and ensure that people have some idea of what they're getting into where as if it's illegal, no one will actually talk to the government about it.
People will lie to their doctors about what they're taking so they don't get in trouble and the situation would be much worse than the status quo.
So in summary, we've explain to you why this is actually beneficial to your health contra what karina told you.
We've talked about paternalism and we've explained why the black market this would create is much worse than anything in the status quo.
Thank you.