We should not ban extreme sports.
So, two big arguments for you: the first is that we think adults should be free to make any decisions that they want.
We're okay with putting age limits on things like skydiving, or, you know, alpine skiing or other potentially dangerous sports to protect children, but we think that in general at the point when we let adults drive cars and do other dangerous things we don't see why you ought prevent them from participating in extreme sports.
We think there's only two reasons when the government should intervene to limit personal freedom: the first is when there is unequal access to information.
So, for instance, if a ski slope company knew that it was very dangerous to go skiing but consumers didn't know that it was very dangerous, then we think the government would be able to step in because the ski company would have so much of an advantage over the consumers that they wouldn't be able to contract fairly.
But this isn't the case.
People know that extreme sports are dangerous.
That if you do things like skateboard or ski or play other dangerous sports, that you might get hurt.
So we don't think that the government needs to intervene there.
We would also be okay with the government intervening if a contract was likely to cause harms is to a third party, but we just don't see how this is true.
If I decide that I want to go skiing and my cousin doesn't want to go skiing, how does that affect my cousin?
At the point where there is no third party being harmed, we don't think there's any reason for the government to get involved.
In general we think the state should always defer to allowing people to form contracts when those conditions aren't met.
Because we think that individuals know their own interests and preferences better than the government does, so the government ought not presume to tell them what is in their best interest or how they should allocate their preferences.
At this point it's clear that we should not ban extreme sports because it would be government overreach.
But our second argument is that we think there's an arbitrary line between extreme and non extreme sports.
Here in the states lots of young people play american football which, as you may have heard, is very dangerous.
People get tackled, some people get concussions or have severe injuries, it's a pretty dangerous game even compared to soccer and other popular sports.
But nobody would call it extreme.
It's basically the national pastime.
We think that it is unfair that you would penalize sports like downhill skiing, which are probably actually safer than american football, while every year you let millions of young people go and play little league football.
In the same way even if you think that american football should be classified in this way, other sports like soccer, or football for those of you listening from europe, are also quite dangerous.
We think that at the point where some people can probably ski or do biathlon or other more extreme sports very safely, and others are likely to play soccer and other sports quite dangerously, that there's no way that you could accurately determine what is and is not an extreme sport.
The standard that the other team gave you was basically that we know an extreme sport when we see it but we think that it's critical that the government not make policies based on arbitrary lines.
What do I mean by this?
People have faith in the government and regulations because fundamentally these regulations are fair.
If the government makes a regulation that seems unfair to people then they're likely to ignore it because it doesn't seem just to them.
We think that this is quite likely for a ban on extreme sports.
That because the line is arbitrary, because ordinary people can see that soccer and american football are equally dangerous, that people are going to continue participating in these sports and that people are going to have less respect for the government as a whole.
The impact of all this is that if people have less respect for government as a whole than there was likely to follow other regulations that actually are important.
So maybe they'll think, if we live in a nanny state, that it's okay for them to drive over the speed limit or purchase unsafe goods.
At the end of the day we think we should not ban extreme sports because we want to maximize individual freedom and because we think that arbitrariness makes for poor government policy.
Thank you.