We think that television does more good than harm for society.
So I'm going to begin my speech with a little bit of rebuttal to the remarks that we just heard from the opening speaker in favor of the motion, and then move into two substantive points for why we think television is actively a good thing.
So rebuttal.
First of all, we heard from the first speaker the television leads to people internalizing harmful norms like violence and swearing.
But we'd like to point out that many books which he holds up as a preferable alternative to television are equally violent and disturbing, if not more so.
Think about lolita by nabokov.
It's a highly disturbing book that features a lot of violence directed at children, so we just don't see that violence is uniquely confined to television.
And in the same way, we also tell you in response to his accusations that television leads to people thinking only about the short term and expecting constant gratification unrealistically, that the internet and fast food, and advertisements and radio and modern books, and everything all combine to do this.
So we think that, the major problem with the propositions that we've heard today, is that these harms are not unique to television.
Many of the things that are bad with television are problems of society today aside from television, so we don't think that television is actually the thing doing the harm.
We think that larger social causes are actually what's responsible, and we think that it's entirely possible that you could have television that encourages people to take a longer view towards things.
We think that a lot of the current golden age of television that people talk about, are shows that are deeply thought provoking and not immediately satisfying.
Shows like mad men, that don't offer a lot of easy answers to the questions raised in the show.
So with that said, we think that the arguments made by the first speaker do not stand.
So now, two arguments for why we think television is an actively good thing.
First, we want to talk about television as art.
So we think that television brings people together across society from lots of different backgrounds in a way that no other medium does.
So first, television is highly accessible to diverse groups.
Almost everyone in the united states and other developed countries has a television.
Many more people than are actively reading books, or going online and reading there.
So we tell you that this is something that's accessible to children, the elderly, to people who are learning a new language because they've just immigrated, to people who don't read well because they don't have a lot of education, highly educated people, not that well educated people, everyone comes together to watch television, so we think that it's a very unifying force.
Especially when you have some shows like say, eurovision or american idol, that are very popular across broad swathes of the population, within that brings people together and offer them something in common and at the end of the day this lets normal people and wealthy people, and everyone come together and have a shared culture, which we think is a unifying force for our country and something that is ultimately good for everyone, or at least does more good than harm.
Our next argument is about information dissemination.
So we think that television is uniquely good at spreading information in emergency situations.
So imagine you lived in america on the, day of the september eleventh attacks.
You probably saw on a television somewhere, for my family we were eating at a restaurant and saw that the attacks that happened, and my parents called my aunt who worked at the world trade center and found out that she was safe.
Now television is probably the only medium that could have let this interaction happen.
Because something like the internet is very impersonal.
If you're out in public you'll probably see a television, you know, in the window of a store, in an office, in a restaurant, but you probably don't check the internet regularly, particularly if you don't own a cell phone.
So television is more public so it disseminates information better.
And we think that ultimately this allows people to access information when otherwise they could not, and for this reason we think that it is a uniquely powerful force for spreading information about emergencies.
So for these reasons we think television does more good than harm.
Thank you.