We should not adopt mobile payments.
So, in this debate, we're going to argue that apps like venmo that make it very easy to send or spend your money are ultimately risky and not good for consumers.
We have three arguments.
The first is that the companies behind these apps are insecure.
Now we agree with the last speaker that fingerprints or pin numbers could make the app itself secure.
We're not arguing that someone will be able to steal your phone and go out and buy a car with all your money.
But we do think is a problem is that the companies that run these kinds of apps, by and large, are not banks.
We see that paypal, for instance, is a very popular way for people to send and spend money right now and that they are moving into the mobile payments market.
But remember that paypal is not a bank the same way that bank of america or RBC or deutsche bank are.
They're not bound to the same regulations and security standards that a bank is.
For instance, paypal doesn't have to keep enough money on hand for people to be able to withdraw their money whenever they want.
They're allowed to freeze your account at will, to take money out of your account.
Ultimately, paypal has much more control over your money when it's in that program than your bank does.
They're also not required to be part of things like the FDIC in the united states and I'm sure similar regulatory bodies which exist in europe or britain or israel.
We think that ultimately your money is relatively unsafe here because it isn't insured by the government and on top of that, because these companies are not held to the same standards as banks and they're able to remove your money.
So we think it's not a good place for people to keep their money, that if people adopt these apps, they will rely less on traditional banking, which will ultimately make their savings less secure.
This could have severe effects on people who can't afford to lose the money that they keep in their checking account, such as retirees or young people.
So we think that ultimately this is bad for consumers, and therefore we ought not adopt these mobile payment technologies.
Our second argument is that these won't replace credit cards as the most common form of consumer spending.
The reason people use credit cards isn't just because they want airline miles.
It's because they need access to credit.
People who get paid every other friday need a way to spend money in the meantime until their paycheck comes in.
People who don't have lots of money in their savings account need to be able to get a few hundred dollars quickly if their washing machine breaks or something like that.
People need credit cards as a convenient way to get access to credit anywhere and anytime.
These mobile payment technologies might let you tap your phone instead of swipe your mastercard, but they don't replace your credit card as your primary source of credit.
So we think that ultimately all of the harms that yaar told you about in his last speech will still remain in terms of high credit card fees and that, if anything, these apps will add extra fees on top of it since many of them charge a two or three percent credit card processing fee.
This actually makes it even more expensive to use your money or to borrow money.
Our third and final argument is that cash will still be essential throughout society.
Many businesses around the world are cash only to this day, whether that be because they are old-fashioned or run by a small business or because they don't want to pay their taxes.
Either way, many businesses are not going to adopt these new technologies.
So you won't be able to use it everywhere, which means that you'll still have to carry cash just like you do right now.
So I ask you to consider the two worlds that we're talking about right now.
The world where we adopt this technology is one where you still use a credit card, you still use cash, but now you also have this app where you keep some of your money and it's not insured by the government.
The other world, where we don't adopt these apps, you still use a credit card, you still use cash, and you keep your money in an insured bank account.
I think it's clear that the world without these mobile payment technologies is, at worse, the same and at best, more secure for consumers.
Thank you.