We should subsidize massive open online courses.
These are courses which are posted on websites, like coursera, where individuals can sign up and watch recorded lectures and pay a fee to have someone grade their assignments.
At the end, in some cases, they can receive a certificate or even a college credit for completing these online courses.
When we say subsidize, we think that students should be able to use state resources that they could otherwise put towards a traditional college in order to pay for these massive online courses.
So if I were eligible for a government grant in order to go to university, I should be able to use some of that money for these online courses as well.
We would be fine with some sort of quality assurance or to require the courses to be provided by a recognized university, but we think it should be up to the student whether or not to take them.
Our first argument is that people have a right to access education.
While this right may not arise from nature, it is true that in almost every country around the world, we see that people have a right to secondary education.
People are taught to read and write, to do basic math, the history of their country and so on, and almost every country aspires to have all of its citizens graduate from secondary school.
We don't see why the right to education should completely end at secondary school.
We think that people should have a right to continue their education.
This would be good for everyone because it would make them better citizens and more productive employees as well.
So it's good for your society and for the economy.
These online courses are an effective way to facilitate access to that right because anyone can sign up.
There's not a limited number of seats.
Only so many people can be in a lecture hall at oxford every year, but thousands or even millions of people hypothetically can watch a recorded oxford class online.
So you can facilitate this right by providing these moocs, these online courses, at a subsidized rate.
Our second argument is that this is an effective use of the state's funding for education.
If you pay lots of money for students to attend a course at a traditional university, let's say oxford again, then the students who are attending those lectures in this term are benefiting from them, but no future student ever will.
The lectures happen and then they go away.
If you paid a funded online course though, those lectures exist for every student in perpetuity who wants to use them.
So you get more bang for your buck when you set up online courses than when you pay for traditional courses.
Now obviously some things need more individual attention from a professor, and I doubt anyone would learn german from doing this.
But for courses like calculus, which are largely standardized, this would be a really effective way to share that information to more students, and we think that the state has an obligation to use its money efficiently so that it goes farther, and that subsidizing these online courses is an effective way to maximize our bang for our buck.
Our third and final argument is that this will encourage educational reform.
If universities and colleges have to compete with cheaper online courses, a few things will happen.
First of all, low-quality universities will probably close.
People will recognize that they're better off watching recorded oxford classes than going to a local college that doesn't provide good instruction.
This means that good universities and colleges will continue, and bad ones will close according to market forces.
As a result, the state will no longer be paying for the worst colleges and universities.
But what's more, it will also encourage colleges and universities to provide education that competes with the standard set by these online classes.
So if you have to compete with professors from harvard and oxford in providing a good education, then every university will focus more on a higher quality of education.
Right now, there's no incentive to compete with the best schools because so few students can attend.
But if you remove that bar, then everyone has to compete, and the market will ensure that we offer a better product at our colleges.
For all these reasons, we should subsidize massive online courses.
Thank you.