ADHD management brings more harm than good.
So I think it's important in this debate that obviously there are going to be some benefits and some drawbacks to different types of ADHD management, but I think that what we're really looking at is what's going to be better or worse on balance.
So we're going to tell you that using things like therapy and drugs to treat ADHD is ultimately going to do more harm, particularly for young people, than allowing them to grow up and learn to cope with this on their own.
So two main arguments for you.
The first is about over medication and the problems that it brings.
Recognize that in countries like the US and britain, hundreds of thousands of children have been put on to ADHD medications which fundamentally change their personality and how they look at the world.
We tell you that oftentimes children who are on these drugs feel unhappy because they're not used to this new mental state and because they don't feel like themselves.
We think that at the end of the day the unhappiness that this causes children it's going to do more damage to them growing up than it would to have to cope with this ADHD.
We think that it's likely to lead to people questioning their self worth, people having a hard time connecting with their peers and their family, and that ultimately the disutility of this unhappiness is going to be greater than the utility created from the happiness of being able to focus on something a little bit longer.
We also think that you're likely to see a loss of creativity as a result of this over medication.
That young people are likely to lose out on talents that they might have developed otherwise and generally be less able to explore and develop themselves into the person that they ultimately want to become.
But on top of that when we say over medication we think that doctors are often too quick to prescribe ADHD medications to parents who don't know how to deal with, perhaps, unruly children.
We think that many times these drugs are a band-aid solution to get children to behave when what we really need to do is look at the root causes of their difficulty focusing or poor behavior.
We think that, although not always, these drugs can be a crutch for lazy parenting or bad teachers and things like that and that what would really be best for the children would be to address the root cause rather than to just use these medications as an easy way to get out of a difficult problem.
Our second argument is about the long term drawbacks of relying on these different types of ADHD treatments so the other team tells you that in recent years the prevalence of ADHD has increased, but I'm going to push back on this idea.
We tell you that it's very likely that in the past many people had ADHD and were able to cope with it either because society was different or because ultimately they were able to learn to cope with this and people around them were able to help them deal with it.
We think that if society has changed that medicating people won't solve the ills that underlie the problem in society and that we need to identify those problems rather than just ask individual people to change everything about themselves.
But in terms of these long term drawbacks, we think that it's likely that individuals will form a dependence on these medications.
That when you learn how to cope with the world when you're taking adderall or ritalin, that it's very likely that you won't be able to cope with the world without those drugs.
So when you give them to children in particular, you set them up for a lifetime of dependence on these medications.
Now they haven't been around that long.
We don't know what the side effects might be of taking these medications for twenty, thirty, even forty years, and on top of that we tell you that it's likely to be inconvenient for people to continue to rely on them into adulthood at times when they need to travel or otherwise wouldn't be able to carry these drugs with them.
We think that, if anything, the types of treatments that the other team tells you about prevent people from learning to cope with their condition in a way that they probably would without medication.
We think that encouraging people to solve their problems from within would ultimately be preferable.
We're willing to acknowledge that some people with very serious cases of ADHD might need these treatments but in general, we think they do more harm than good for most people.
Thank you.