Randomized controlled trials bring more harm than good.
So, a randomized controlled trial is a type of scientific, generally medical experiment, which basically assigns people to groups randomly and attempts to reduce bias when we conduct medical experiments.
I think that the most typical case when these are used would be when testing new medications.
For instance, some people will be given a placebo, some people will be given the actual medication, and then the results would be compared at the end of the study.
We have two arguments for why we think these types of studies bring more harm than good.
First, we think that randomized controlled trials unfairly deny treatment to some individuals.
Remember that oftentimes these drugs are for very high stakes diseases.
Sure the other to make it appear and say this doesn't matter for talking about hair loss pills, but if we're talking about a drug for HIV, or diabetes, then people's lives are on the line when they enter these studies.
Oftentimes people are entering into these studies because there are no approved drugs or no existing drugs that can cure their illness.
So this might be people who have a rare type of a disease, or an uncommon disease for which there is no good treatment.
They're basically people with no other options.
So once they've entered the study, they have only a fifty fifty percent chance of receiving the best possible cure.
Because, recognize that by the time a drug has gotten to the point when it's going into a randomized controlled trials, doctors already think it's better than placebo.
If they didn't, then they wouldn't spend millions and millions of dollars in order to test it.
So what we see, is that people who are desperate for treatment, are not being given the treatment that they ultimately need.
Doctors already have good reason to believe that they could help these people and are choosing not to in the name of science.
More on that in just a minute.
But we think that it's principally unfair to give only half the people in a trial access to medication.
We think that even if you assigned this randomly it still arbitrarily punishes a few people, and that at the end of the day, we think medicine should be provided equally to all people whenever possible.
So our second point is about why we think this preferences scientific data over the obligations of medical personnel.
So, recognize that doctors in most countries around the world swear some version of the hippocratic oath, that they will do no harm.
And they have a legal obligation to do what is best for their patients.
Yet, in these randomized controlled trials, doctors are more concerned about getting scientific results to publishing journals, than they are with actually helping people.
They are knowingly denying treatment to ill individuals so that they can get higher quality of scientific research.
Now the other team is going to get up here and tell you that ultimately for the greater good, it's still better to have the scientific research that not to have it, and that you wouldn't be able to get the same quality of research without randomized controlled trials, but it's not immediately clear to me why this has to be the case.
It seems likely that if we didn't use these randomized controlled trials, that using things like simulations and other techniques, even if it costs a little bit more money, we could come up with other ways to test these drugs while still providing everyone access to the high quality of care that they deserve.
We think doctors are shirking their duties to their patients when they don't provide the best medical care possible, and that means giving access to drugs even if they're undergoing testing.
I think that a useful way to think about this might be that if you had a relative who had, god forbid, HIV aids, and you knew that there was a drug that could help this person prevent going prevent this person from going from HIV to aids, and they were in a study, you would always want that person to receive the drug, not to receive the placebo.
We don't think that anyone would ever opt into receiving a placebo because they wouldn't be receiving the type of care that they need in order to cure their disease.
So that point when nobody is choosing to get the placebo they're only running the risk of it because there's no other way to get treatment, we don't think that this is fair or just.
So ultimately we think randomized control trials bring more harm than good, because they unfairly deny treatment, and because they subvert the duties of doctors.
Thank you.