We should not end athletic scholarships.
Three arguments for our side this evening.
First, we think that these scholarships are beneficial because they help needy students.
Recognize that the pool of people who are competing for athletic scholarships is by and large not the same pool of people who are competing for academic scholarships.
At many schools around the country there are academic and athletic scholarships.
But the people, who are going to go on to earn most of those academic scholarships, are probably people who went to prep schools or people who had access to tutors in high school, groups like that who already had a substantial amount of economic or educational privilege.
By comparison while some of those people will probably also apply for athletic scholarships, many people who grow up without those advantages will also apply for them.
Many more people, in this country and I assume every country in the world, have access to a soccer field or a basketball court, then have access to things like SAT tutoring.
At that point we think that athletic scholarships are a great equalizer in society because one, they encourage students from low income backgrounds to apply to college in the first place, and two, they bring in a pool of people who would otherwise be under-served by academia.
Our second argument is that there is no harm to traditional scholarship in offering these athletic scholarships.
The reason I think this argument is important is that the other side hangs their hat on the idea that there is a trade off between scholarship or academics and athletics.
We tell you that the situation is not zero sum.
In other words, giving basketball or track scholarships does not necessarily mean that we can't give economics or math or history scholarships as well.
They need to explain to you why this is the case.
We tell you first of all, that the sources for these funds are often different.
In many cases athletic scholarships are funded by the proceeds of a school sports program or by particular donors.
And athletic or academic scholarships might be funded by the university's general fund, or by the state, etcetera.
So we think that at that point there's no real trade off between the two.
We can have our cake and eat it too on our side of the house.
But aside from that, we tell you that sports bring in lots of money to the university and therefore that giving these scholarships is actually an advantage.
If you think about a school like the university of north carolina, they have really excellent financial aid for low income students.
And one reason that they're able to do that is that their endowment is huge.
But why is the endowment so large?
Many alums feel a close relationship to the school because of their successful sports, every time UNC wins a basketball championship like they did this year, they see spikes in alumni donations.
So we tell you that sports actually can bring in lots of money to the university.
At that point, giving athletic scholarships to ensure that your school has good athletics programs is an investment in the endowment, not just a drain the way that the other side would have you believe.
So at that point we tell you if anything this is actually beneficial for academic scholarships, not harmful.
And the last argument that we would make is that athletics is a key component of education.
If you think about the principle of a sound mind in a sound body, we think there's a reason that universities in the US were the pioneers of many sports that we now enjoy like football and basketball.
Similarly we see long sporting traditions in england at oxford and cambridge.
At the end of the day there isn't a tension between the idea that academics are important and the idea that athletics are important, the two complement each other.
In order to create healthy, successful citizens, it's important that we have both physical and mental education and these athletic scholarships encourage people to place a higher value on athletics, on physical success, than they might otherwise.
So for these reasons we should not end athletic scholarships.
Thank you.