We should subsidize public transportation.
So by subsidize we mean we think that government should subsidize fares, make them cheaper than they would be otherwise by paying part of the cost.
Government should build and expand transit systems whenever possible, and government should pursue campaigns to promote ridership.
And when we say public transit we meet things like metro's, city buses, light rail, trams, all that good stuff that everybody loves.
We think that these subsidies might be drawn from a tax levied on the area that the public transit system serves.
So but that in mind, we have two big arguments.
The first is environmental.
Obviously there's a trade off between the cost of the subsidy and the reduction in CO two emissions and other environmental harms.
Having everybody in a city, like boston, drive to work in their own car doesn't make a whole lot of sense from an environmental perspective.
You have everybody in a vehicle that holds four or five people and it's very inefficient because everyone's admitting enough CO two to get five people to work, but only getting one person there.
So you're doing a huge amount of harm for relatively little benefit when people drive their own car.
Certainly people can carpool, but we think it's unlikely that most people will ever fill all five seats of their car both ways to work day in and day out.
We think therefore that the best way to reduce CO two emissions is to encourage people to use a more efficient vehicle.
The cost of running a bus isn't that much greater than the cost of running a large car, or perhaps even if it is compared to the number of people who write it it's much lower.
So the per capita CO two emissions are going to be much much lower with public transit.
We think therefore that this is a good subsidy because it's an investment in the future.
Less CO two release now means fewer expensive problems due to climate change in the future.
We think it's likely that technology will help us to mitigate climate change in the future.
But why make that job more difficult and more expensive by continuing to drive?
We think that's very irresponsible.
So perhaps the benefits seem intangible now, but we think that over the long term, these benefits are clear and they come down heavily in favor of subsidized public transit.
On top of that, public transit encourages the construction of infrastructure that doesn't rely on the use of cars.
If you visit some cities in america it's impossible to get anywhere without a car.
They're too big an area to walk around cities like LA, for instance, so you have to drive to get everywhere.
If cities are based around public transit then they're more likely to be built at a human scale so that in the future, when people don't drive as much, they'll actually be able to get around the city by, I don't know, using their own two legs, or a bike, or taking the bus if they decide that's what they want to do, but everyone won't be completely reliant on cars as they often are right now due to car based development that we think is economically and environmentally unsustainable.
So our second point is about the broader economic impacts aside from the environment.
Cities are always in competition to attract business.
Every big city in the world is competing with every other big city in their region, in their country, even globally in some cases, to attract businesses and workers.
So how do you make your city an attractive place to do business?
We think that world class public transit is a good way to do this.
If you think about a city like london, it's impossible to think about it without thinking of the underground.
You can get anywhere in london, one of the world's greatest cities, using only public transit.
It's easy to get around.
It's pretty cheap.
It's overall a very pleasant system to use.
We think that because london, even though its sprawling and massive, is relatively accessible with shorter commutes than you would expect given its enormous size, and that this is because of public transit that ultimately public transit helps a city like london to attract business and tourists.
Now the other team might say london already has lots of businesses, but we think that the comparative for a smaller city, like one in the north of england, like york, might be that they're better able to compete because people can access the same sort of comforts of transportation in new york now as well as the lower cost of doing business, so you're more competitive with a larger city like london.
At the end of the day, therefore, we think it's more likely that your city will continue to grow and develop and be prosperous if you subsidize public transportation.
So for these reasons we think subsidizing public transportation is a very good idea.
Thank you.