We should ban herbal medicine.
So, by this we mean prevent its sale in pharmacies, limit use of words like medicine or cure or other similar words and have a government-funded education campaign about what herbal medicine is and how it works and doesn't work.
And by herbal medicine we mean the use of plants and fungi and similar measures which have not been proven in peer-reviewed journals or using the scientific method to have the effects that their sales people claim that they have.
Two arguments for you: the first is about corporate abuse, the second is about public health.
So, with regards to corporate abuse, we think the state needs to step in to limit the corporations that are selling these herbal medicines.
This debate is not a matter of the government stepping in to crackdown on grandma's home remedy.
It's about a large industry that has grown up around herbal and alternative medicines which are not based on scientific evidence and this industry is taking advantage of citizens.
People are being told that these herbal remedies are cures for illnesses when there's actually no evidence that they are.
They're not being told about interactions between these herbal remedies and other medications they might be taking or foods they might be eating.
They're not being told about conditions that could arise from long-term consumption of these herbs and the net result of all of this is that people are not being informed of what they're actually getting in to.
So, we think the government needs to intervene because there's just a lack of information and a huge bias in favor of the companies selling this.
We also tell you that these corporations are not being held to appropriate regulatory standards.
In the US, herbal remedies are held to the standard for food which is set by the FDA, not by whoever looks after drugs, so we see that they're not being held to a very high standard and so no one is actually checking about interactions between herbal remedies and other things that people might be consuming.
And the effect of all this is that people like children and the elderly and the ill are all being grossly affected by these herbal remedies, so people who don't have access to a lot of information and generally speaking can't look out for themselves as well as you or I might be able to are potentially being harmed because they're taking a drug in good faith which will not actually help them or might actually make their condition worse.
So, we think that the state must intervene on these people's behalf and protect them from this herbal medicine and that the only way to perfectly do this would be to ban the sale in the first place.
So, our second argument is about public health.
We tell you that public health is a common good.
Everyone is better off if the public is more healthy.
Evidence-based medicine is proven to work so we ought always defer to its use.
Recognize that we're fine if they're want to go out and do studies to prove that some herb actually cures a certain illness, then we're fine with selling it in pharmacies and having doctors prescribe it like any other drug, but we think that we always need defer to evidence when we talk about health because people's lives and well-being are on the line, as well as a lot of public money.
Recognize that poor health costs the taxpayers a fortune around the world.
In countries like britain or canada which have national healthcare systems, the taxpayer is directly responsible for other people's well-being and even in countries with private health care like the united states, if people are low-income or elderly, they're still receiving public money for their health, so everyone is losing money if people are not healthy, and necessarily, they would be healthier with evidence-based medicine we can say because we know about all the effects that the drugs are going to have and how the medicine is going to work.
But we also tell you that health care is a facilitative right and that good health is a facilitative right.
In order for people to do things like go out and vote and get educated and access other things that society tells them they have a right to do, they need to have access to health.
And if they're being misled and they're being told that something is going to cure them that won't, then they're not going to be able to access those rights.
So, we think that therefore, the state needs to intervene to protect their health, particularly for children, the elderly and other marginalized groups, and that doing this would mean banning herbal medicine until it has been proven based on evidence to work so that people aren't accessing it in good faith and then being harmed.
We think the state needs to eliminate these ineffective treatments in order to prevent people from being harmed and in order protect people's rights.
So, for these reasons, we should ban herbal medicine.