We should ban extreme sports.
So by this we mean we think that the governments of liberal countries should close down things like the x games and other organizers of extreme sports.
They should ban youth participation, and they should limit or ban the sale of equipment for these types of sports.
And by extreme sports we mean, broadly speaking sports that present extreme risk to participants and are not part of traditional sporting activities.
So something like parkour in some parts of the world might count as an example of this.
So with that said, two big arguments.
The first is about the need for state intervention.
I think that the most important question for a debate like this is should the government intervene to prevent the behavior that's going on.
So we're going to set up two reasons for why we think there's a need for state intervention.
The first is about an asymmetry of access to information between the people participating in the sport, and the big businesses that are profiting from promoting and selling equipment for the sport.
Extreme sports generally pander to a much younger audience than traditional sports, like soccer or baseball.
We see that young people have less experience in life and less ability to make decisions about whether or not something is actually a good way for them to spend their time, or to get risk, because they have less experience and haven't been exposed to the same types of things that other people have.
So because these sports prey uniquely on young people and encourage them to participate in very risky activities that older people might recognize are not a good idea, we think that there is a certain amount of abuse taking place here, where you have older people taking advantage of young people's lack of knowledge and information, in order to sell them products that ultimately put them at risk.
We think that this there is a power imbalance here between the promoters and the consumers, and that the government is the natural actor to step in to level this power imbalance, because the government has the interest of young people at heart, because they're citizens, and can actually step in to help them.
We think that there are also harms to third parties because of extreme sports.
If you think about the families of these athletes when they become injured who have to care for them, and the burden on health care systems.
We think that ultimately it's not as though the only person being harmed is the person participating in the sport, this actually affects many more people than just them.
Therefore we think the state ought to step in to protect the interest of those people who also deserve consideration by the government.
Our second argument is about why we think that this is bad for sporting culture or why we think extreme sports are bad for sporting culture.
So first of all, pretty much all extreme sports are individual events that don't focus on like teamwork, or working with a coach in a way that traditional sports do.
The other team might get up here and say, oh well, singles tennis doesn't promote teamwork either, but at least then you actually are working with a team of people to improve, you're probably training with a team at your university or your school, and you have a coach.
So we think that that actually does promote teamwork, even if it's not necessarily a team event.
Whereas because extreme sports tend to not be organized on a university level because they're too dangerous, or on a school level, things like that, ultimately you're not going to be working with a team of people to improve, it's very individual.
And we think that one of the biggest benefits that sports offer to young people is to teach them how to be part of a team, how to be a leader, how to work with other people that they don't get along with, and ultimately you lose out in all these benefits.
And because most people have a limited time to devote to sporting activity, we think that there is a tradeoff here, you're going to have fewer people doing traditional sports that have all of these benefits if more people are doing extreme sports as a result.
We also tell you that this is probably going to lead to a lesser quality of competition in things like collegiate leagues and international athletics as well.
We think that if more of our best athletes are going into extreme sports, one they're simply not competing for things like the olympics or like the world cup or international leagues, but on top of that more of our best athletes in the country are being tragically injured at a young age.
So even if governments traditionally don't involve themselves to?
Heavily in sports, clearly they do have an interest in protecting their best athletes to represent them on the international stage, and also protecting young people who are being taken advantage of.
So for these reasons we should ban extreme sports.