We should not abolish lotteries.
So we're going to argue that governments around the world should offer lotteries to their citizens and that the money should be put into either the general fund or towards other public goods.
So our first argument is that the lottery shouldn't be abolished, because people like it.
We tell you that, generally speaking, government policy should be based first and foremost on the will of the people.
After all, governments rely on people's support in order to obtain legitimacy and in theory, lawmakers act as representatives of the people of their country.
While this may not always be true in practice, we tell you that generally lawmakers should try to adhere to the public mores in order to make their decisions about what we ought and ought not allow.
And why else should we allow the lottery aside from this?
We acknowledge that people want the lottery but moreover, people choose to opt in.
Only a minority of people actually play the lottery, at least where I live, and I imagine around the world.
And the people who do play the lottery have to choose to opt in.
You have to go to the corner store and buy lottery tickets in order to play.
So no one's really being coerced into doing this.
The other team might tell you that some people are addicted to gambling and that these people are being coerced but in the united states, at least, if you're put on a problem gambling list, it's like a database that's run by your state, then you can no longer purchase lottery tickets.
They have to scan your driver's license.
So, at the end of the day, we see that even those people aren't really being coerced, because there are policies in place that can protect them.
And if other countries don't have these policies, perhaps they should implement them rather than ban the lottery.
But what's more, the other team tells you that even though people like the lottery, it's bad for them so we should ban it.
But how is this different than half the things people do for fun?
Drinking beer is bad for you, probably much more so than the lottery.
It's certainly more expensive but people like doing it, so we allow them to.
Cigarettes.
In some countries, cigarettes cost ten euros a pack, but we still let people smoke because ultimately, it's something that they have evaluated as profitable or beneficial for themselves, even if it costs a lot of money.
We think it's unfair to ban this one vice while we allow so many others which actually are more harmful to people's health and well-being.
So at the end of the day, we think that it would be just unfair to punish the lottery and people who enjoy gambling when we let other people pursue their own vices.
So at that point, we should defer to public will and allow the lottery for the people who choose to play it.
Our second argument is about why we think it's good that the lottery is run by the state.
So, let's consider what the world looks like if you ban lotteries.
People are going to find some other way to gamble.
Maybe they'll go to sports betting sites, maybe they'll find online roulette and things like that, or they'll go to in-person illegal gambling sites.
Either way, if people really want to gamble, they'll find a way to do so.
And the popularity of things like unlicensed poker playing areas indicates to us that this is probably true.
So, at the point where people are going to be gambling their money, no matter what, because it's something people enjoy doing, how should we prefer their money be spent: going to gray market or organized crime entities that ultimately profit from illegal gambling or going to the government, where it can be used to build elementary schools?
We think that if it's going to exist either way, we should try to channel the money that is taken from people for gambling toward something good.
And by having a public lottery, especially education lotteries like most US states have, we can ensure that this money is used to raise a generation of people who won't want to gamble in the future, because they'll be educated about its risks.
And moreover, we can also channel this money to things like gambling help programs and things like that, which are often underfunded in the status quo because local and state governments are underfunded.
So because people want the lottery and because we can use the money for good, we should not abolish lotteries.
Thank you.