We should ban alternative medicine.
So by alternative medicine, I wanna be really clear what we are talking about.
These are practices that people claim are able to cure illnesses but that are either disproven or unproven or impossible to prove that they actually have these effects.
So, many alternative medicines are going to be things like traditional folk remedies, etcetera, but some of them are more exotic, things like homeopathy or crystals or cupping, that don't actually have any positive effect but that people still spend lots of money on.
So we have three arguments for you today.
The first is about why the state ought step in and intervene to prevent people from consuming alternative medicines.
The first point is that there are third-party harms to people choosing to use third-party alternative medicine.
If you, for instance, choose to use crystal magic to treat your pneumonia rather than using actual medicines prescribed by a doctor, then you're much more likely to spread that illness.
We see that while infectious disease may not be a tremendous concern for the types of healthy young people who probably do a lot of debating in college, that is a real concern for young children and the elderly.
These are groups which need our consideration when we think about these communicable illnesses because it's much more serious for an eighty-year-old or a three-year-old to get pneumonia than you or I.
We might be in bed for a few days.
They could die.
So we need to take this very seriously.
We think that that point that there is a clear third-party harm to people choosing to use alternative medicine because they spread these illness.
And we think that these are the type of diseases that people are most likely to use alternative medicine for, things that are fairly serious, like the flu or pneumonia, but not so serious that they would put people in the hospital at which point, presumably, they would receive real treatment.
The second time when the state should intervene, and this is very clear for our side, is when there's an asymmetry of information.
What do we mean by this?
The big businesses that produce these alternative drugs, because don't let the other team tell you that it's grandma in her kitchen whipping up some old traditional remedies, this is a big industry.
These big companies know full well that their remedies don't work.
If they did work, then these companies would file patents and make a lot more money selling them to health insurance companies or national health, etcetera.
They don't work, and they know they don't work, but they're selling them to people anyway and, basically, lying to tell them that they do work.
We think that at this point the government, which has access to the information that it doesn't work, should intervene to protect the common consumers, who aren't educated enough to make this decision for themselves because they're not doctors, they're not attorneys, they don't know whether or not these drugs actually work or whether these companies are lying.
So at the end of the day, we think that the state should intervene.
Our second argument is about public health.
We think that if people went to their family doctor and got real medicine, instead of relying on these alternative remedies, that they would be sick less often.
This would mean that they spread fewer illnesses, remember what I said earlier, but also that they would miss less work, miss less school, ultimately be more productive members of society.
We also think that because people tend to get more sick if they don't receive treatment that more people probably go to the hospital or consume a lot of expensive resources that take up national health money when they use this alternative medicine to begin with.
Our third argument is that this would stop poaching.
This might seem a little strange, but remember that the one big reason why tigers, rhinos and other elephants elephants and other animals are being poached is because traditional medicine in some countries requires body parts from these animals for the cures.
So rhino horn, for instance, might be seen as a cure for impotence in some cultures.
If we shut down this market, it's already true that poaching is illegal.
But if we prevented people from even purchasing alternative medicines, then we think more people would stop believing in alternative medicine, since we could run education campaigns, etcetera to build support for the government action, and this would reduce demand for poached animals, which would ultimately lead to less poaching.
So for these three reasons, we think that we should ban alternative medicine.
Thank you.