We should ban strip clubs.
So, by strip clubs, we mean places that provide adult entertainment, usually through naked women, and we think that there are three reasons why these ought be banned.
The first is that we think that these establishments often exploit their workers.
Many times people feel that they don't have a good alternative to turning to stripping, so they get involved in it when they're fairly young and don't understand the implications that it can have for their reputation or their well-being later on.
So we think that that's a big problem.
But it's not just the people don't understand what they're getting into, but also that the business practices tend to exploit the people who work there.
For instance, many strip clubs might encourage their dancers to perform sexual acts for money, even in places where that's illegal, or might pressure them to do things that they feel uncomfortable with in order to bring in more customers.
So we think that, ultimately, the interest of the owner is always going to run contrary to the interests of the workers there.
And while that may be true in many different types of business, it's especially pernicious in sex work such as strip clubs.
Our second argument is that we think that strip clubs promote harmful norms in our society, namely, lots of young men go to the strip club and are really encouraged to see women just as sexual objects rather than as people.
There's probably nothing more dehumanizing than having strangers come in to ogle you while you dance around naked.
So, inasmuch as there is a big problem in western society with women being treated as sexual objects rather than people and with men not respecting women, we think that an institution that explicitly entrenches this norm is really damaging.
We think that another really harmful norm it entrenches is certain ideas about sexuality.
Because people want to discourage their children or people in their community from getting involved in stripping, they tend to take a very negative view of sexual work in general.
And while that might be okay in some instances, it can often bleed over into a negative view of sex writ large.
So we think that people tend to slut-shame more often or shame others more often as a result of the existence of strip clubs, especially in communities where they're more prevalent.
You'll often hear music, for instance, comparing someone to a stripper, even if they aren't, as a way of slut-shaming them.
So I think that it's very likely that the harms extend even beyond the people who choose to participate in the strip club system, namely, the dancers and the audience, and actually has pernicious effects on the rest of society as well that those people never opted into, so that's probably unacceptable and presents a clear harm to a third party that would allow us to ban strip clubs.
And our third and final point is that strip clubs are just generally bad for the communities where they open.
There's a reason that many towns have zoning laws that prevent strip clubs from opening.
We think that, very often, strip clubs are seen as bringing a decline in property values and attracting a kind of rough element to a neighborhood.
Therefore, people are really loath to have them located near them and strip clubs tend to be located in poor areas where people aren't able to opt out of having something like this nearby, because they don't have the political clout.
So that's quite problematic: that, effectively, everyone else in society foists this off onto the one area that can't afford to get rid of it.
Inasmuch as, very likely, no one would choose to have a strip club located in their neighborhood, it seems unacceptable to place them anywhere, since you're just putting a higher burden on people who can least afford to bear it.
So because strip clubs are exploitative of the people who perform there, because they entrench harmful norms that ultimately leak out into the rest of society, and because they're harmful to our neighborhoods, we should ban strip clubs.
Thank you.