We should not limit the use of birth control.
We think that ultimately birth control has been one of the most important inventions of the twentieth century.
When condoms were first invented it first gave people the ability to avoid getting sexually transmitted diseases and to choose whether they wanted to get pregnant and the invention of the pill suddenly gave women a way to avoid becoming pregnant from sexual encounters and gave women the same kind of sexual freedom that men have had for centuries.
So we think that ultimately, this has been a really important part of our culture for the last fifty years and that getting rid of birth control wouldn't change our culture significantly but it would harm a lot of people who wouldn't have a choice over how to use their own body anymore.
So our first argument is about personal freedom.
Birth control lets people choose when and how to have sex in a way that they were never able to do before.
The reason why the sexual revolution happened in the twentieth century is that suddenly you could have sex and not have to worry about getting pregnant as long as you took your birth control pill everyday.
This gave women sexual freedom in a way that they had never had before.
Previously women had to avoid having sex before marriage because to do so might be to burden themselves with a child that they couldn't afford to take care of.
Now men and women have much the same amount of personal freedom in some countries because of the pill.
So we think that you would be taking away women's ability to freely have sex and freely enter into relationships if you got rid of birth control.
But what's more, men have been conditioned for the last fifty years to expect that women will have casual sex before getting married.
We don't think that that pressure on women from men will change if you get rid of birth control.
So you'll still have men demanding casual sex and women will still feel pressured into giving it to them but what will happen now is that many more women will get pregnant.
More on that in just a minute.
So we think that this really constrains women's freedom.
Our second argument is obviously about having more pregnancies.
We think that it's really bad to have unplanned pregnancies.
Raising a child is extremely resource intensive and if people can't plan in advance when they want to have children then it's going to make it harder for them to plan their career, and to make time at work and other things in order to do this in a responsible way.
So we're going to see many more people having unplanned pregnancies.
This is likely to make it harder for women to get jobs because employers will now discriminate against them knowing that they could get pregnant at any time.
This is a problem in the status quo, but it would be much worse in a world that didn't have birth control.
Ultimately, we also tell you that many of the children born of these pregnancies are going to be unwanted.
Unwanted children are much more likely to be abused or neglected than children that were planned far in advance by parents who really wanted to have them.
So we think that this is likely to harm the children who would be born as a result of getting rid of birth control as well.
So you can see that there's a clear third party harm there to the children that would be born and therefore a clear reason not to do this no matter what your end goals.
We also think, this is our third point, that this would lead to much more poverty.
If people, especially women, can't get jobs as easily and if they have children that they have to take care of, then it's much more likely that they're going to be poor.
Parents overall are much more likely to be impoverished than non-parents and we think that this is likely to plunge people into parenthood at times when they can't afford it at all such as in their late teens.
So we think that poverty rates will go up even in a highly developed countries if you limit the use of birth control.
If people are getting pregnant when they're not ready for it then they're not going to be able to provide a good life for their children or themselves and this is really going to lower standards of living in your country.
What's more, because people won't be able to buy as much because they won't have as much money to spend in the first place, this will slow economic growth as a whole.
So for all of these reasons, we should not limit the use of birth control.
Thank you.