We should abolish standardized testing.
By this we mean that all schools, universities, public schools, private schools, pretty much every form of educational institute should stop relying on standardized tests as a metric for what students have learned.
We think that a really good example of a standardized test would be the SAT, which is the american university entrance exam, and is sat by millions of students every year.
In theory the SAT is of equal difficulty at every sitting and the questions are cycled in and out, so you could get one question from a large set of questions on any given test.
Many american states also have end of year exams which are standardized, and the practice is becoming more and more common over the years despite some push back from educators.
So we have two big arguments.
The first is why we think standardized tests are an unfair metric for what students have actually learned.
So if the purpose of a test is to be an assessment of students learning or ability, we think standardized tests failed to do so because they're unfair.
These tests are often highly racialized.
They rely on assumptions that students come from a certain background and that they know certain cultural information that they may not have.
In a highly multi ethnic society like the US, canada, australia, for instance, we think that many students who are from say a native background or recent immigrants are likely to be put at a disadvantage compared to white students or students whose families have been in these countries for hundreds of years.
At that point we think that it's less of a test of whether or not you actually learned you know high school history and more a test of are you part of the in group that is privileged enough to get to make this test.
We also think that this test closely reflect the social class of the test taker.
In particular these tests are relatively easy to study for and prep for but oftentimes it takes a lot of free time and resources.
The SAT is a good example of this.
It's said that it's more important that your parents are wealthy.
Your parents' wealth corresponds better with your SAT score then your high school grades do.
It cost a lot of money to hire a tutor for standardized testing, and if you have a job, or if you don't have a lot of free time because you're taking care of your siblings, for instance, then you can't actually access this.
So these tests systematically reward the students who are already the most economically privileged even if they didn't learn the most in school.
We also tell you that every sitting is probably different.
If you take a standardized test in february and take it again in august, you might get a much better score the second time without learning anything else just because the questions that you get happen to be things that you already knew.
It's almost chance to what you're actually being tested on.
Where is a test that was made by a teacher, we think, would probably reflect what you actually learned and be made with certain knowledge in mind so that you couldn't just get lucky to the same extent.
In the same way we think that a test made by a teacher might account for your racial background or your social class better than this one test that's meant to fit everyone.
We think that a one size fits all approach, which is basically what the standardized test is, will ultimately be very unfair to most people.
Our second argument is that standardized test interfere with learning.
We think that they contribute to the gamification.
The making of education game like.
We think that this is true because you can study for a test and learn the types of questions that will be on it.
When someone studies for the LSAP, for instance, they learn the types of questions and focus on that rather than studying content, and we don't think that learning the types of questions on the LSAP will make you a better lawyer.
Learning content might.
Teachers often feel compelled to teach to the test because they'll get job assessments that are based on student scores rather than what they learn.
So no one cares if little johnny actually learned algebra only if he does well on the new york state end of year exams.
So ultimately the teachers teach to those exams rather than trying to actually get across the concepts, like say, algebra.
We think that this marginalizes subjects that aren't being tested because if there is a standardized math exam and reading exam but there's no standardized history exam, you have to spend a lot more time on those two subjects in order to get a good job review, so you neglect other subjects even if those are also important for students development.
And we think that ultimately this undermines the purpose of school which is to make people well rounded citizens who are able to engage with the world around them, by instead causing them to focus in on tests that cease to be relevant after you've sat them.
So for these reasons we support the abolition of standardized tests.
Thank you.