We should not subsidize electric cars.
We would argue that electric car should be sold using the same degree of personal and public responsibility as any other car.
So if someone wouldn't be eligible for subsidy to get a car or other form of transportation in the first place, then they ought not be eligible to receive one just because the car that they're buying is electric.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that this is tantamount to a wealth transfer to the wealthiest people.
Think about who was able to buy new cars in the status quo.
It's mostly going to be upper middle class or wealthy people, because new cars are so expensive.
In the united states at least, the cheapest new cars are in the range of about twenty thousand dollars, which is completely unaffordable for most people.
Most people buy used cars instead and never buy new cars.
So ultimately a subsidy that is focused on making new cars more accessible to people is only going to help the people who are able to purchase those cars in the first place.
Because remember what we're talking about here isn't making electric cars affordable to people with a ten thousand dollar budget, we're talking about making an electric version of a toyota corolla costs the same as a regular toyota corolla.
So ultimately the benefits of this policy really only accrue to the wealthiest people.
And we think that those people don't need the government's help as much as everyone else.
That ultimately we can rely on wealthier people to provide for themselves and that there's no need to transfer government funds to them at the expense of less well off people who have paid taxes that would be used for this subsidy.
Our second argument is about the trade offs in spending.
Remember that money is fungible.
We could use government funds for almost anything in place of these subsidies for electric cars.
So what that means is that this is money that isn't being spent on making the electrical grid greener, which ultimately would have a much larger impact on how much pollution most people produce than changing a few people's cars over.
Its money that isn't being spent on RND for greener technology.
It's money that isn't being spent on food supplement programs or programs to help young mothers, which ultimately we think do much more good for individuals then this car subsidy would or indeed than almost any government program would.
So the reason this is a bad program is because any money that you spend on subsidizing electric cars is money taken away from the people who need government support the most, namely the very poor, the disabled, and it's also money not being spent to maximize the social benefit because it's not going to reduce massive amounts of fossil fuels by changing over the grid to green energy, it's just helping a few upper middle class people feel better about themselves.
So we don't think that's a good use of the funds that the government has to spend on this project.
And our third and final point is that this is unfair to certain corporations.
Realize that some companies have huge head start in developing electric cars and that this unfairly rewards those companies at the expense of everyone else.
Groups like general motors that may have spent more money than groups like ford on developing electric cars were only acting out of a profit motive.
And so was ford.
So we don't think either one deserves especially to be rewarded for their actions.
But when you have a subsidy that's exactly what happens.
Government steps in and picks winners and losers in the marketplace by deciding who was going to receive huge subsidies and who is not.
So ultimately this unfairly punishes certain auto companies and rewards others.
And in particular I think this could be damaging to countries domestic auto industry.
For a country like say sweden which has a fairly large domestic auto industry, this could be really devastating if it meant that people were getting subsidized imports instead of domestic cars and ultimately would hurt the country's economy.
We think this could apply to other countries with large auto industries as well.
So for all these reasons we should not subsidize electric cars.
Thank you.