We should not abolish personality tests.
Now the last speech basically told you a laundry list of bad outcomes of people relying on personality tests in the hiring process.
I'm going to explain to you one, why personality tests are not a unique harm and then explain to you why they're okay to use and why, if there is a problem with industry using them, we can solve for that without banning them.
So first: we don't think personality tests or unique are a unique harm because hiring already relies on many subjective means.
Every time you apply for a job, or at least every time I've ever done it, you go to an interview and you talk to somebody and they try to gauge your character from the interview.
That's why sometimes when you apply for a job they ask you questions like, ' what's the biggest setback you've ever faced ' or ' what's a challenge that you've overcome.
' it's not so much that they want to hear about the time that your tennis team was losing and you had to win the big match or something, it's that they want to see how you as a person respond to challenges.
But obviously this is quite subjective.
If your interviewer identifies more strongly with you, they're probably going to give you more favorable treatment.
This is why we see things like men hiring men in an unfair rate, or white people hiring white people at an unfair rate.
In the same way that we allow interviews because we see that it's useful to gauge people's character and then we have regulations in place to check against illegal bias, we think personality checks do much the same thing.
If you have someone take a personality test that can tell you a little bit about them that you would have tried to glean from an interview.
People still want this information and they will get it either way whether or not you allow these tests.
This is just one way for them to collect it.
So next, we think that it's okay for companies to choose to use these things.
Recognize that all hiring is discriminatory.
If you have two positions and ten people apply then you have to find some way to distinguish between all the different people who applied.
If you choose to hire the people who went to the best school, or the people with the most experience, or the people who have the best interview, all of those are discriminatory.
Whether that's against people who went to public versus private school, whether that's discriminatory against people because they're younger rather than older, or whether it's discriminatory against people who aren't as confident with public speaking, and don't perform as well in interviews.
We think ultimately there's no way to hire without being discriminatory because at the end of the day there aren't enough spots for everybody or you wouldn't be having this whole hiring process in the first place.
You just wave people in off the street and have them fill up your cubicles.
So at that point we tell you that the big concern is illegal discrimination.
How do we stop people from racially discriminating or sexually discriminating and the answer is that that would one, still happen even with these tests.
People are still going to be racist, still going to be sexist, whether or not you allow these tools.
And two, we still have laws in place to check this.
If there's some HR person who's only hiring white americans for a job and ignoring people from other countries or black americans, then we can say that person's being racist and that company can get sued and that person will lose their job.
And if they're doing that with a myers briggs personality test or if they're doing that by just an interview process, we think ultimately there's going to be the same kind of accountability in the form of the legal system.
So there's no unique harm to these personality tests because the same racism is going to go on and we have the same checks against it.
Nothing changes.
So lastly, the other speaker tells us that there's an industry that wants to sell these tests and that this is a source of abuse.
So one, we're going to challenge this on face.
What is the instances of the government or private companies hiring unqualified people because of personality tests?
Maybe if there's two really qualified people applying and we hire one because their myers briggs type is INTJ and we don't hire the other one cause their type is ENTP.
At the end of the day that's unfortunate for the second person, but we think that the government hired someone competent either way.
If there really is an industry that's lobbying abusively, then we can regulate against that the same way that we regulate against other forms of abuse in government hiring.
So for these reasons we think that ultimately there aren't a lot of unique harms to personality tests, so we should not abolish them.
Thank you