We should abolish the attorney-client privilege, sometimes also called attorney-client confidentiality.
This is a legal protection in common law countries, like the US and britain, which guarantees that one's attorney cannot be forced to testify about something that you tell them in confidence.
In fact, attorneys can be disbarred, basically lose their license to practice law, if they reveal information that was confided to them, in confidence, by their client.
We think that there are three primary reasons why we should abolish this privilege.
The first is that by abolishing attorney-client privilege, we could resolve other legal disputes.
Consider that oftentimes a person will be involved in more than one court case over the course of a certain period of time.
We think that if trial a has been concluded, that you should be allowed to require someone's attorney to testify in trial b about information from trial a.
Why is this important?
We think that, for instance, there may be relevant information from a previous trial that would allow us to more accurately and swiftly conclude a later trial, but that that information is not available because of attorney-client privilege for a case that has already been decided.
Recognize that there's no double jeopardy in countries like the united states.
So ultimately, even if this would have led to a conviction in trial a, it wouldn't be able to overturn the decision that the court made there, so we should allow that information to come to light in trial b.
This would allow us to better determine people's guilt or innocence, which is ultimately the highest purpose of the criminal justice system.
We think that this would have massive benefits to victims of later crimes or to people falsely accused at a later date.
Our second argument is that this protection is unnecessarily strict.
Realize that attorneys are not the only people with whom one has an expectation of confidentiality or the idea that this would be beneficial.
Think about an accountant.
If you were conducting some sort of business you would want your accountant not to reveal financial information about your business to anyone else.
Yet, we don't see that you have the same type of legal protection when you talk with your accountant.
If you are committing fraud, for instance, your accountant can be compelled to testify it in court.
We don't see why attorneys should be uniquely the only party who can't be required to testify against you.
We see that both accountants and attorneys are professionals with access to private information about you and your practices which could allow the court to make a different decision than they would otherwise.
We think that if we're okay with making priests, accountants, and other professionals testify, even therapists and doctors, that we should also be allowed to require attorneys to testify.
This is principally inconsistent as it stands right now, and it unfairly limits the court in one particular sphere of a person's life.
We think that you should be able to require attorneys to testify in the same circumstances where you could require a doctor or accountant to do so.
Our third and final argument is about how this could uniquely benefit prosecuting organized crime.
Realize that ordinary criminals are probably unlikely to take advantage of attorney-client confidentiality to the same extent that organized crime does.
We think that, for instance, businesses like the mafia or drug cartels are only able to function because attorneys are able to transmit information, send letters, manage money, and can't be compelled to testify about this in the court of law.
We think that we could go after these organizations much more effectively if we were able to compel their attorneys to testify.
The other side might tell you that it's already impossible for attorneys to commit a crime because they risk losing their license.
But we see that this doesn't do anything to stop them in the status quo, so some sort of stricter action should be taken, such as compelling them to testify in court.
And we think that because of the massive harms of organized crime to society, that this would ultimately be justified.
So for all of these reasons, we should abolish attorney-client privilege.
Thank you.