Immigration to the united states does not always bring more good than harm.
I think it's unfair and unreasonable for the previous speaker to try to ignore the role of illegal immigration in this debate.
Almost twice as many people enter this country illegally as enter legally in any given year.
So it seems unrealistic to talk about immigration as a whole, while only looking at about a third of the actual immigrants.
So we have two arguments for why we think that oftentimes it does more harm than good to have this level of immigration to the US.
The first is about stains on social services.
So right now for the united states to take in well over a million people every year when we include illegal immigration, we see that this places a large burden on the country's social services.
People who come into this country have to use emergency rooms, especially because they don't have healthcare, they send their children to school, they consume other government benefits indirectly, they use roads and other services without paying for them and ultimately this places more of a burden on the american taxpayer and stretches thin services that are already under funded such as emergency rooms and many instances.
Illegal immigrants and legal immigrants both also combine to drive up the cost of housing, particularly in the types of large metro areas where most immigrants live.
Most people who move to the united states don't move to small towns in the midwest, they move to cities like LA or new york or san diego where housing is already very expensive.
And a large part of the driving driving part of the increase in housing cost in these cities has been immigration which has skyrocketed in the last thirty years while housing stocks have remained largely the same.
And this drives up the cost of living for everyone not only people who already live there, but also legal immigrants who have come in the past.
Lastly we think that it is difficult to provide services to these newly entered immigrants in many cases because of cultural barriers which make it more difficult to provide high quality of service that we would normally expect people to receive from the american government.
Our second argument is about the rule of law.
We think that it's impossible to er monitor undocumented workers and that many employers are willing to break the law regarding both legal and illegal immigrants in order to make a quick buck.
The result is a large amount of backlash and resentment from native born americans and from people who immigrated legally and have done everything by the book.
We think that because these people are not receiving fair treatment because undocumented workers and legal immigrants who were not following the terms of their visa, or who overstay their visa, are getting preferential treatment in terms of jobs, we think that this backlash is often legitimate but that the resentment that it brings harms many people who have done nothing wrong.
So members of the hispanic community who have been in this country for hundreds of years, their families have, are suffering as a result a backlash against hispanics as a whole because of a perception, which is largely unfair, that hispanic people are taking jobs away from white americans when the actual issue is that illegal immigrants are taking away jobs from people who are participating in the system.
So now I'd like to refute a couple of points from the last speech.
The first is regarding cultural diversity.
The united states is already tremendously culturally diverse, so I don't see why uniquely allowing a million more people in every year is going to increase that level of diversity.
But on top of that I think that the harms to social services at the people who already live in this country clearly outweigh the benefits of letting a few more people in in terms of diversity.
And with regards to his economic arguments I think many of these are completely backwards.
There's no shortage of workers in the united states.
The country has fairly high unemployment, if you take into account people who are no longer looking for work it's over ten percent.
But on top of that it's nonsense to say that bringing people in as immigrants creates demand for services because you also have to provide those services in a way that won't always be the most effective and this will drive up the cost for everyone in the form of taxes.
But aside from that, we think that even if you create more demand for things like food or entertainment that these benefits are greatly outweighed by the harms to social services that ultimately everyone relies on.
So for these reasons we think that immigration to the US does not always bring more good than harm.
Thank you