We should abolish personality tests.
So, by this we mean we should ban the use of these personality tests in any form, particularly for hiring or government or educational use, but we think that the place where they're most commonly used in the status quo would be in hiring.
And by personality test, we mean things like myers briggs test that claim to analyze your personality based on a short questionnaire and determine what type of person you're going to be and then oftentimes, employers will only hire people who receive a certain results because they think that they'll be better workers or that other people might be unreliable or otherwise undesirable because of their personality test.
Now, there's some amount of psychological support from the scientific community for the use of these tests to determine what type of person someone is, but we're going to give you two arguments for why we don't think they ought be used: so, our first point is that we think that these tests are unfair to the test taker in the hiring process.
We think, first of all, that they require you to reveal personal details that your employer otherwise couldn't ask for about you.
We think that your employer couldn't ask you, for instance, if you were the type of person who would want children or if you were the type of person who would want to get married and things like that, but that these questions might very well be included in the personality test and so, indirectly you're giving your employer access to information that they might not be permitted to ask for in another situation.
So, we don't think that the employer ought be allowed to do that.
We think it's unfair to the person applying.
We also think that these tests don't affect your ability at your job.
It might be possible that a person might have a myers personality type that's not traditionally associated with being a good lawyer, say, but that this individual happens to be a very good lawyer despite having a certain myers personality type.
We think that it's unfair to someone who has put in a lot of work to cultivate skills and to get an education and otherwise to build themselves up for a given career, to rule them out of it based not on their merits, but based only on their personality type.
Aside from that, we tell you that personality type may very well very from day to day and not be representative.
It's possible that on a given day, someone feels more introverted or more extroverted or that a person feels more positive or more negative.
We think particularly in the interview process when people are under a great deal of stress, it's likely that they'll act differently than they would if they weren't under that kind of stress and that ultimately, therefore, these tests are not representative of that person's true nature, even if the outcome of the test is actually representative of who they would be normally.
They're just not in a scenario where they're able to take that test fairly.
And if these results are legitimate, then we don't think they're something that an individual can control.
I didn't choose my myers type, so we shouldn't discriminate against people based on it, in the way that we don't discriminate against people based on other things that are, largely speaking, out of their control, such as race or sex or gender.
Our second argument is about why we think the use of these tests is actually harmful for employers: first of all, false negatives are likely to screen out good candidates.
So, if you don't want to hire people of x personality type and someone happens to be get the result of x, even if that's not really their personality type and they were a really good candidate for the job, then you're screening out someone who would've been the best employee, simply because the tests aren't perfectly accurate.
We also think that the outcome of using these personality tests will be that you'll hire less talented people who did well on a certain test.
So now, suddenly, you're screening people not based on how good a lawyer they are, but by what their myers type is and we don't think that always corresponds one-to-one with being a good lawyer the same way that things like records and skills do.
We think moreover, that you're likely to end up with one type of thinker if you screen out other personality types.
If you only look for one or two myers types that you hire, then you're going to exclude people who think differently and this might make you less innovative and less competitive than you would be if you had a more diverse group of people and personality-wise.
And we think that the big impact of all of this is that this damages your business compared to if you had hiring that was based only on recommendations and resumes and experience, like traditional hiring processes that's more focused on the actual job that the person would do.
So, for these reasons, we should abolish personality tests.