National service in the united states should be mandatory.
So, as a little bit of background: since the end of the vietnam war in the nineteen seventies, the united states has had a system called selective service which basically means that every young man, before he turns eighteen, has to put their name into a sort of draft registry which could be used if the US ever wanted to call everyone up to serve in the future.
What we would advocate for is that every young man and woman in the united states, when they come of age, should have to do one to two years of military service.
So this would be an extension of the existing selective service process but it would require everyone who was able to do so to serve in the armed forces in some way.
We would be okay with accommodating people who are, you know, conscientious objectors or religious by allowing them to serve in civilian style roles, things like administration, but ultimately we want to have everyone under the umbrella of public service.
Two arguments: the first is that we think that this would be beneficial for young people.
Youth unemployment in the united states is extremely high right now relative to unemployment for the general populace.
We think that youth unemployment will be reduced by our policy for a couple of reasons: first of all, many young people will be taken out of the job market for a couple of years by their service, which means that the jobs that they would have had would now be open for young people who are coming out of the service.
So we think that they will be less competition in the job market.
But on top of that we tell you that ultimately young people would gain skills and training which they would be able to use after they got out of the military.
For instance, if you were assigned to maintain fighter jets or something, then you would come out of the military and half the training that you would need to work for an aeronautical engineering company or something like that.
We also think that because veterans in the united states receive certain benefits that civilians don't, that it would be better if everyone were a veteran.
We think that people would be able for instance to claim huge reductions to the cost of college tuition, so ultimately you would end up with a workforce where more people will be able to access education regardless of their personal wealth.
This will be a great equalizer between the rich and the poor.
Along those lines, we also think that people would have to meet those who are very different from themselves.
If you're drafted into the army and sent to a base in another part of the country, we think it's likely that you would meet people of different races and religions that might not live in your hometown or your home state.
So this would promote greater understanding of the american experience writ large and encourage people to be more tolerant and accepting of others.
Our second argument is that this would be a good thing because it would lead to fewer conflicts.
Recognize that right now, because the US has a professional all volunteer army, that there's a certain attitude among civilians that if we get into a war everyone who has to go fight wanted to be there.
So you see, for instance, that when we invaded iraq a few years ago, people were broadly okay with it because they said "look, even if soldiers don't want to go fight now, they still signed up.
Nobody made them do this and they're getting paid and are getting lots of benefits for it. "
But if everyone's son and daughter had to go join then we think that there would have been mass outrage about the war in iraq.
We don't think that the american people would be willing to accept the adventurism that has become commonplace in our culture, as a result of the all volunteer army.
If everyone knew that their children were going to be at risk if we got into a conflict, then we think that they would vote for more peaceful politicians and that congress would be less likely to authorize military action because they would be worried about losing reelection if they sent young people off to war, and also because their own sons and daughters would be affected by these decisions.
We think that this will be good not only for the US to avoid conflict but also probably for the rest of the globe.
Right now, the US is the country most likely to unilaterally invade other countries for whatever ideological reason.
We think that people in iraq and afghanistan, for instance, would probably prefer a world in which the united states was less willing to invade them and this is probably also going to be true for whoever our next victim is.
So at the end of the day we tell you that this policy would help young people and lead to less conflict.
Therefore we think national service in the US should be mandatory.
Thank you.