We should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
We think that it should be illegal even with parental consent for people who are under the age majority, such as eighteen in most countries, to get piercings or any form of permanent tattoo.
Our first argument for why this is the case is that miners aren't really able to opt into what they're doing.
Piercings and tattoos have a permanent effect on one's body.
It's true that some piercings might eventually heal, but they'll never go back to the original state.
So it's impossible to ever go back to a state in which you didn't have a piercing and while tattoos can be removed, this is a very expensive process and still leaves some indication that you had a tattoo.
So as with piercings, you can never go back to that state of not having had a tattoo.
The reason this is problematic is that it's difficult for minors to make decisions based on the long term.
People who are thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, simply don't have the life experience to decide if they are going to want to have this tattoo when they're seventy five.
Most of these young people are going to be thinking of the short term because that's all they know and also because the brain just isn't done developing until the early to mid twenties.
So we think it's better to prevent people from making an irreversible decision at a young age that they might regret later.
Moreover, we think that we stop young people from opting into all kinds of harmful activities.
It's true that we let eighteen-year-olds smoke and not seventeen-year-olds and that may seem arbitrary but there has to be a line somewhere and this seems to be the place to draw it.
Now obviously tattoos and piercings aren't as bad for your health as smoking but it's clear that we limit young people's autonomy sometimes because it's just true that the government knows better than children in some instances and we ought defer to protecting young people rather than letting them make harmful decisions until they're at such a point in life that they're able to really think these things through.
But the next thing I'd like to do is just ask you to weigh the benefits and the harms of this policy because I think that it's really obvious that this should be implemented.
The worst harm that I can think of to banning these tattoos and piercings is that some people might be very upset that they're not allowed to do what they will with their body.
So the worst case when you ban this, is that some people will be unhappy.
But I'd like to point out that this will only last for a couple of years.
Very few eleven-year-olds say are seeking out a tattoo and if fewer young people got piercings, the norm would probably change such that it wasn't normal for young people have piercings and they would be less desirable.
So ultimately you get all of the benefits of preventing people from making a decision that they'll regret later or preventing people from getting a tattoo or piercing that might hurt their ability to get a job or get higher education because of stigma, and you're weighing those benefits to our policy against minor irritation that a young person can't do want they want.
We tell you that teenagers are going to be annoyed with authority figures no matter what you do.
So even if you were to let them get tattoos and piercings they would find something else to be unhappy with their parents and teachers and the government about.
So there's really no harm to banning tattoos and piercings from minors.
If getting a tattoo or a piercing is really important to someone they're still free to do that as soon as they reach their age of majority.
So we're not really limiting anyone's freedom in the long term just making them really think something through.
In fact it seems quite likely to me that if someone really wants a tattoo, they will have had to have thought it through by the time they turn eighteen if they've been thinking about it for years and that there will probably be better outcomes for everyone.
So ultimately because children simply can't consent to getting this kind of tattoo or piercing, and because there are really no harms to implementing this policy, we should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
Thank you.