We should further exploit unconventional oil.
So by this we mean things like shale oil, oil sands, tar sands.
And by we in this debate we are going to talk about liberal democracies around the world, because much of the oil that exists in this format is in countries like the united states and canada.
So three arguments for you.
The first is about cheaper energy costs.
We tell you that fundamentally there are two factors to the cost of energy: the supply and the demand, obviously.
Now.
The demand for energy is fairly inelastic.
People need gasoline and heating oil and things like that, the same amount, year to year, regardless of how much is available.
They can't just cut back freely, because it's so essential to our day to day lives.
So at that point when you increase the supply, demand will remain the same and prices will fall.
The effect of this is a better quality of life for your citizens, particularly those most low income citizens, who now free up a lot more of their money to spend on things besides gas for their car, and oil to heat their homes, and natural gas for their electricity.
So we think that you actually help your citizens by driving down energy costs.
Our next argument is about the political ramifications of exploiting unconventional oil.
So firstly we think that you weaken two actors who are contrary to the interests of the international community.
So opec, we tell you, is an oil cartel which exploits its position as having lots and lots of the world's easily extractable oil in order to prevent sanctions against member states, even when they're abusive, and require the US and other countries to support their interest abroad.
We think that if you produce more oil in countries like the US and canada, then you're comparatively less dependent on countries like, say, saudi arabia and venezuela, dictatorships who we think we don't want to support and don't want to depend on as democratic countries.
Sho you'll be more independent a very worst more reliant on the bulk countries like the US and canada.
We also tell you that you weaken russia.
Energy has been vladimir putin's main bargaining chip to keep the west from intervening in his adventurism in recent years.
So if you consider why the west hasn't done more to help ukraine or to prevent putin from intervening it in syria, we think that a large part of that is that european countries rely on russia for natural gas and for oil, they're one of the world's largest producers.
But if there is more oil available around the world then prices will fall, and it will be easier for the europeans to buy their energy elsewhere, and also the ruble as a currency will be less valuable which will make it more difficult for putin to run the country by buying off his people.
The last political effect we see that you get is more domestic jobs in the USA and canada.
These are countries that have faced a lot of outsourcing in the last few decades, so we think it would be good to bring lots more jobs, especially for kind of unskilled or uncollege educated workers, who might not have a lot of opportunities otherwise.
Our last argument is that you need to develop this technology at some point.
So recognize that we're running out of the kind of easy to drill oil that you see in countries like saudi arabia or kuwait right now.
These reserves are drying up and are getting more and more expensive to extract from, which means that in order to meet our energy needs in the future we're going to have to rely on unconventional oil.
So if we begin by developing the technology to extract that oil right now, while we still have cheap easy to extract oil, then it will be highly mature by the time that we rely on this for all of society to meet their needs.
So at that point we think that everyone would be better off in the future if we develop this technology now.
So for that reason we think we should further explore this type of exploit this type of oil.
We think that the other team might get up here and say that by exploiting this oil you discourage investment in green energy or otherwise hurt the environment, but we don't see why this has to be zero sum.
You could invest more in drilling for tar sands and things like that, and at the same time invest in wind power and solar power.
Energy investment is not zero sum, and we think that it is better to be prepared for all contingencies by exploiting the oil that we have available while we allow alternative energies to mature, so that we're actually able to rely on them without seeing a lower standard of living in the future.
Thank you.