We should limit the use of birth control.
So, some definitions because this is a bit vague.
By birth control, we mean hormonal birth control taken in the form of a pill.
This is the famous pill that everyone knows somebody who takes.
We think that ultimately there are a lot of drawbacks to this form of birth control and by limiting the prescription, by encouraging doctors to look at other forms of contraceptive rather than just the pill, we think that we're actually going to help women and also encourage better medicine in the future.
So with that brief bit of modeling in place, the first point would like to make is that today there are better alternatives to the pill that aren't being used often enough.
Back in nineteen sixty when the pill was introduced, it was completely revolutionary.
It was the first form of easily accessible safe birth control that was really left up to women to choose to engage in, as opposed to condoms or other methods that were really dominated by men.
So this gave women a huge amount of agency.
And a secondary effect, of course, of the pill is that it regulates one's period and menstruation.
So that's also something that was very liberating for women: to have the choice now about how they wanted to have their bodies act at different times in their lives.
So obviously the pill did a lot of good, but today there are better alternatives.
There are, for instance, non-hormonal forms of birth control, such as copper implants that last for five years and never fail, which means that there are fewer pregnancies that are unwanted, because people can forget to take a pill very easily, but if you have a copper implant that's good for five years, that's that.
There's no way that you can get pregnant.
So, today, there are new birth control technologies that are simply astronomically more effective than the pill, and also that don't have a lot of the side effects that we'll talk about in just a minute.
We also think that, ultimately, these better alternatives will be developed further if we have less reliance on the pill.
Right now, not a ton of money is being spent on new forms of birth control because so many people, especially in wealthy countries like the US and britain, use oral hormonal-based contraceptives.
But we think that if we encourage doctors to look into other forms of contraceptive, that it would encourage better forms of these non-hormonal or non-oral contraceptives, and ultimately that this would drive down costs and make them more accessible to low-income people and also just lead to better technology, as a whole, on the subject.
And that can only be a good thing because it maximizes people's choice about how they want to interact with their own bodies, which is a critical part of one's individual autonomy.
The next thing that we'd like to talk about are one of the most serious drawbacks of hormonal birth control, which is the mood changes that it can have.
Many people experience depression or mental illness as a result of their dependence on hormonal birth control, and this is a huge problem that nobody talks about because birth control is so important to our society right now.
But we think that if we limited the prescription of hormonal birth control, especially to young women, in favor of non-hormonal birth control, that ultimately fewer people would experience these negative side effects that are often just brushed over by doctors.
The last thing that we would say is that, right now, hormonal birth control is likely over prescribed.
Many doctors don't seriously consider the potential secondary effects that birth control can have and just hand it out like candy to everyone without thinking about alternatives, as I mentioned before.
We think that we can change this over-prescription by changing the way that we allow doctors to prescribe birth control.
Right now, effectively, anyone can get it.
We think that by restricting access to oral contraceptive birth control to people who specifically want certain effects of that type of birth control that we would ultimately increase people's autonomy by changing the way that doctors interact with medicine.
So, ultimately, for all of these reasons, we should limit the use of birth control.
Thank you.