Nationalism does more harm than good.
So, by nationalism we mean the intense love of a nation.
So, a good example of this might be that, some people in quebec very much love the idea of french canada, more so than they love other parts of their identity.
So, we think that that's a good example of nationalism.
So, three arguments: the first is that, we think nationalism is very divisive.
Recognize that, nations must compete with one another for nationalism to make sense.
Everyone's sense of love for their own nation is comparative: if you love quebec you don't love english speaking canada, for instance.
So, we think that, necessarily, this create some sort of divide between people, who are members of different nations, and some sort of feeling that, one nation is in competition with every other nation.
This is a lot of problems: first, in terms of rebellions.
We see that, although there hasn't been a lot of violence in recent years in quebec, historically, in other parts of the world, nationalism has been a big driver of violence.
World war one for instance, started because of nationalism in the balkans that made people resent the austrian empire.
Even though the governments, that replaced the austrian empire, weren't that different from the empire itself, people wanted to have a serbian king, rather than a german king, and that's what led to a lot of the conflict that, led to millions and millions of people dying, and this has been a recurring story throughout modern history.
We've seen nationalist rebellions in countries, from eastern europe to germany itself, to southeast asia, and africa, and millions of people have died as a result, even though the living conditions of people in those countries probably didn't improve as a result.
We think that, the natural outcome, therefore, of nationalism is that this divisiveness will lead to conflict, and war between nations.
Our second point is that nationalism is exclusive, and we think that this is a really dangerous thing, most people can't choose to opt in, or opt out, of the nation that they're part of.
It's kind of like being black or white, you're born into a certain nation.
So, if you're born in a certain part of canada you're quebecois, and if you're born elsewhere in canada you're not.
If you're born in one country, you're part of a certain nation, if you're born elsewhere, in the same country, you're part of a different nation.
So, we see that this could be very dangerous for minority groups, particularly, if you have a country that's based on a certain national identity, like say, germany being based on german identity, then people who live within the borders of that country, but aren't part of the nation, are always going to be viewed with suspicion.
This was a huge driver in anti semitic crimes in germany in the twentieth century, that jewish people, who lived in germany, and might have lived there for hundreds of years since the middle ages, were seen as not being part of the german nation, so they were actually a risk to the country, and this allowed leaders to scapegoat the jewish people, and this can be seen time and time again.
For jewish people, this has been a huge problem throughout history, as jews have been seen as not part of the nation, of the country, that they live in, but part of a jewish nation instead.
But this isn't the only example, if you look at chinese people in southeast asia, even if their ancestors have lived in a country like thailand for a hundred and fifty years, they're still viewed as part of the chinese nation, and viewed with suspicion, even though they're a citizen of thailand, and have been there for a very long time.
We think that, this ultimately means that, minority groups will be treated worse by the majority group, because they'll be seen as not part of the nation, and not really belonging in their own home country.
Which leads nicely into our last point, about why we think nationalism leads to unrealistic expectations.
We think that, countries and nations almost never perfectly overlap.
One reason is that, while countries have firm borders, the US canadian border is at a certain line on the map, nations tend to bleed over.
We see that, in places like europe, you have german speakers, living outside germany, who identify as part of the german nation, and this was one of the leading causes of world war two, was a desire to unify the german nation into one country.
But, when you have areas that are thirty percent german, and thirty percent polish, and forty percent czech, how do you reconcile that?
We think that, nationalism leads to an expectation that you can unify your nation, but that's never possible without large scale population transfers, or terrible crimes being committed.
A good example of this would be greece and turkey, two countries that have a lot of national enmity historically.
In the early twentieth century, all turks were exiled from greece to turkey, and all greeks were exiled from turkey to greece, and millions of people lost their homes, and no good came of it for the people who actually lived in those areas.
But because of nationalism, it was expected that this would be good.
Nationalism encourages a certain naive idealism, that we don't think that can ever be resolved, without really harming the people, who were affected by the policies created as a result.
So for these reasons, I think it's very clear that nationalism does more harm than good.