Immigration to the united states of america brings more good than harm.
So, in this debate, I think it's critical that we acknowledge that a huge part of immigration to the united states happens, illegally, that lots of people come in with fake papers or they come in from latin america illegally.
We still think though that on balance, immigration is ultimately a good thing.
So, we have two major arguments: the first is that we think immigration drives growth in the united states.
Recognize that the US is able to attract trained workers from around the world at no cost.
So, basically, it takes a lot of resources and money to produce doctors and engineers and all of these other really highly skilled professionals, but those are a lot of the people who want to come to america.
So, the united states is getting really good people from countries like china and india who already have college degrees that we didn't have to pay for.
We're basically getting these really good, well-trained workers for free as a result of immigration and we think that that's an obvious benefit, that we're basically getting brain gain when other countries get brain drain.
We think that this gives the US a competitive advantage relative to other countries and ultimately, is a really driving factor in american success.
But also recognize the type of people who are willing to leave their family, leave their home and move to a new country are probably some of the most ambitious, entrepreneurial people in the world.
We think that if you're lazy or if you're not hard working, you'll never even make it to this country because it's so difficult to go through the process of immigration.
And this is true for illegal as well as legal immigration.
Even if a lot of illegal immigrants, you know, they're not doctors or engineers, they're still hard-working people who were willing to take a big risk in order to get a better life for themselves and their families.
So, we think that that type of person is more likely to start a business, more likely to work three jobs, more likely to do overtime, more likely to take risks once they get here, and that ultimately, that's a really important part of the economy is that people are willing to start a business, people are willing to put in the extra hour.
That's ultimately what has made america so successful in the past relative to other countries.
This is also as another major benefit, the only source of population growth for the US.
So, recognize a lot of highly developed countries like, say, germany, have a shrinking population or a population that's stagnant.
Basically, no one is having kids really, so you have more elderly people and fewer and fewer young people and when this happens, you run into a problem where in the future, there's not going to be enough workers to keep all your businesses going.
Now, the united states is the only highly developed country that's really avoided this problem and it's entirely because of immigration.
Americans, by and large, are having enough children to keep the population about flat.
So, there would be zero growth and then you would probably see a trend towards a decline in population like you have in germany.
But because the US attracts so many immigrants, you actually have population growth and we're able to avoid this problem so, at the end of the day, I think it's clear that immigration fuels the economy and that even undocumented workers, even so called illegal immigrants, are still people who are entrepreneurial and ambitious and that these people are a net benefit to the american economy.
So, our second point is about the cultural benefits: we think that one of the major strengths of the US relative to other countries is it's tremendous diversity.
There's more languages spoken in new york city than any other handful of square miles in the world, for instance.
We think that as a result of this, the US can tap on the resources of lots of different regions around the world.
There's a great sense of cosmopolitanism.
We think that this leads to more cultural tolerance.
Americans are more likely to be accepting of different cultures and different backgrounds if they're actually exposed to them and we think that you see this out within the united states that people in places like new york city and los angeles, who meet immigrants from around the world every day are probably more tolerant than people who never meet those individuals, so we think that ultimately, this promotes tolerance within the US.
But it also promotes an ability to understand other people's cultures.
US intelligence, the US military, etcetera, are able to recruit americans who have a deep understanding of other countries' and regions' cultures because their parents came here from those countries.
So, when we did things like we went into afghanistan and iraq, those may have been poor decisions from a policy perspective, but very least, we had americans who spoke arabic and who spoke farsi and these other languages and we were able to be more successful because of that.
So, we think that ultimately, diversity makes the united states culturally more accepting and also provides a lot of material benefits.
So, for these reasons, we think that immigration to the USA brings more good than harm.