We should cancel the speed limit.
So by this we mean to say that on highways government should not set a maximum speed at which people are permitted to drive.
So we imagine a model similar to certain structures of the autobahn in germany where people are permitted to drive as quickly as they wish according to what's safe for their individual car.
I'd like to point out that we're not advocating for some sort of mad max state of anarchy on our side.
If you're driving at an unsafe fashion on the autobahn, you can still be pulled over.
So I don't expect to see grandmas and toyotas going a hundred and fifty miles an hour.
I think that people will probably drive more quickly than they do now, but still in a fundamentally safe fashion, and that the police will be able to correct for it if they're not.
With that in mind, three arguments.
The first is that speed limits are fundamentally arbitrary.
Everyone listening to this has probably at some point driven on a road and wondered, why is the speed limit here so low?
We see that oftentimes speed limits are not set with regard for how windy or straight a road is, or how easy it is to drive on, rather every road in a certain area has the same speed limit, or every highway has the same speed limit in a certain state or province.
At that point, when the speed limit isn't based on anything in reality but rather some arbitrary law, people break them all the time.
Where I live in boston, people regularly drive twenty miles over the speed limit around this in the interstates around the city, and the police don't do anything about it because everyone knows it's safe to drive much faster than the speed limit.
What this means is that people feel resentment when the law is actually enforced.
Because any enforcement is uneven.
In other words, the police generally pull you over because they have to fill a quota for the month of tickets that they write, or because they want to get you for something else and it's an excuse that they can use.
So this leads to people having less faith in the system as a whole.
Almost every american has probably had negative interactions with a police officer because they were speeding and got pulled over even though they were driving in a completely safe fashion.
So we think that this leads to worse relationships between people and law enforcement, and that furthermore any contact between individuals and law enforcement is an opportunity for things like police brutality and violence in countries like the US, where the police carry guns.
With this in mind, we should cancel the speed limit because it's arbitrary and there are many harmful effects about arbitrariness.
Our second argument is that speed limits don't change over time in a suitable fashion.
Fifty years ago it's probably true that cars should be limited to a hundred kilometers an hour or whatever they're limited to on highways near you.
Because people didn't wear seat belts, because cars were slower and bigger, but nowadays cars are much safer because of crash test safety ratings.
And on top of that we see that people wear seat belts, that they have things like curtain airbags, and that ultimately cars are much safer.
But speed limits don't go up because of lobbying groups, like mothers against drunk driving in the united states, or because of a lack of desire to actually do anything about the problem in other places.
So we tell you at that point that because speed limits are set at one time and then never updated to reflect realities, once more people are willing to break them and all the harms I just discussed come in once more.
So at the end of the day we should get rid of speed limits because they aren't adjusted accurately over time and they don't reflect what is actually safe.
Our third argument is that rather than using speed limits we should take increasing advantage of governors.
Every car sold in the united states is required to be limited to a certain maximum speed, I think it's about a hundred and forty five miles per hour.
Many cars for instance that are imported from japan are not road legal in america because they don't have a governor or because they're faster than that.
What we tell you is that if you set governors at a lower setting, then it would be easy to let people drive as quickly as they want and set a maximum speed that's appropriate for their car.
So perhaps if you drive an audi you would be allowed dry faster than someone who drives a honda, but everyone would be governed to go the maximum speed that's appropriate for their car.
We think that would be more fair and ultimately less arbitrary.
For these reasons we should cancel the speed limit.
Thank you.