Sustainable forest management brings more good than harm.
So in this debate we're talking about not just you know general good governance of forest, but a particular set of guidelines that has been set up by international agreements, by groups like the united nations conference on environment and development, in order to set up general principles for forestry.
So with that in mind we have three arguments.
First, protecting the environment.
One of the main goals of sustainable forest management is to protect the environment.
We see that in many parts of the world, like brazil, very important ecosystems that can never be replaced are being destroyed at an alarming rate because of four manage poor management of forests and forest resources.
The net result is that species are going extinct and ultimately we will never be able to reclaim the type of biological diversity that once existed.
Once you make a species go extinct you can never recover it and in many instances once you cut down a rain forest you can never return it to that region.
We've seen that in places like brazil the soil is permanently destroyed after you deforest a region and the trees and plants that once grew there will never be returned.
What this means is that deforestation is a problem that will remain a problem forever.
You can never undo the damage.
We think that you should, in principle, never do something damaging that cannot be undone because you don't know about the future risks.
In practice that might not be practical but we think that at the very least it can be mitigated in the short term by implementing sustainable forest management.
Our second argument is about protecting communities.
So we tell you that millions of people are dependent on forest resources around the world as their primary way of life, and we think that you need to balance the interests of these different groups.
Again to return to brazil, there are native people whose ancestors have lived in these forests for thousands of years who are dependent on it for their traditional way of life from medicine, and food, and other resources, but there are also working class brazilians who are dependent on jobs in the forest industry, things like logging and harvesting certain rare plants et cetera.
We think that you need to balance the interest of both of these communities and that sustainable forest management is a tool to do so that we can preserve tracts of forest for the people who rely on them for their way of life and also allow some limited harvesting of forest resources to help the economy of these regions.
If in fact the other team gets up here and tells you that there are shortcomings and this will hurt halt economic development in countries like brazil, we tell you that in this much as there is already land that has been deforested, that land can be planted with other types of trees besides rain forest trees in order to promote a logging industry that is more sustainable, or more money in research can be put into reforestation that would allow the establishment of plantations and things like that rather than harvesting wild trees and that this would ultimately be the best for all the communities involved.
Our third point is about the duty to posterity.
The environment doesn't just belong to people who are alive right now.
The environment belongs to everybody.
We tell you that people who are going to be born in nine months have an equal claim to the rain forest and to other forest resources as you or I, but it doesn't stop there.
We think it's arbitrary to say that people who are alive right now have more right to the rain forest than people who will be alive in two hundred years or even two thousand years.
We think that the best thing you can do in order to ensure fair use of resources is to use them in a sustainable, moderate way so that future people will be able to access them the way that we've been able to access them.
Many times there are resources that we wish still existed today.
Things like the great barrier reef that have been heavily damaged by the actions of past generations and that can never be restored and we are filled with regret.
We shouldn't pass that on to future generations in the same way.
We need to be responsible in how we manage our forest resources and sustainable forest management is the best way to do that.
So for these three reasons sustainable forest management brings more good than harm.