We should subsidize journalism.
So by this we mean that the state should provide perhaps salaries for certain journalists or subsidize the cost of attending journalism school and otherwise facilitate journalism within a country.
Three arguments: the first is that we need to limit elite control over journalism.
If you look at the world right now, people like rupert murdoch have tremendous control over the media.
He owns different news organizations such as news channels and newspapers in countries like britain, the states, and australia, and has tremendous control over the access to information globally and this is just one very wealthy man.
We think that the only way ordinary people can counterbalance the sort of pro-elite narratives that someone like that is going to push, is if the state intervenes.
We tell you that one reason why we have a state is so that the weak are able to band together in order to resist the strong and that this is one instance where that's necessary.
There is no news company that's owned by low income people for instance, because why would there be?
They have no income in order to support a news organization but the state can intervene and ensure that viewpoints that are important to those people are actually being represented and that elites don't push a false pro elite narrative, which we think does go on in the status quo.
When you see that many news organizations support candidates who are pro big business, pro capitalism, pro whatever majority group, and ignore the plight of minorities or ignore the truth in the matter when they report.
Our second argument is about producing higher quality news media.
When the only incentive for news companies is profit, you get the lowest common denominator.
Why is this the case?
When you produce something that's very very high quality and very perhaps even difficult to access because it relies on a lot of outside information, you have a smaller consumer base.
This means that a news organization that's focused on really in depth coverage of important issues won't be able to make money as one that offers surface level coverage of issues that appeal to a lot of people.
This is probably why there is more coverage of kim kardashian than there is of theresa may in the american media.
Obviously theresa may matters more to all of our lives because she is the prime minister of an important ally but kim kardashian appeals to more people because they want to know what's up with her and kanye, so the news media focuses on them and not what really matters.
We think that the government can subsidize coverage of things like culture that goes beyond popular culture, can subsidize the coverage of issues of national importance, to be sure that ordinary people have access to that information and ultimately that this is the best way to get that information into the hands of voters.
Recognize that right now, sure, magazines like the economist in foreign affairs exists but they're expensive and not a lot of people have access to them, but with government subsidies these things could either be cheaper or there could be government run alternatives that were cheaper.
The other team might say that we're just defending russia today but we're okay with having some sort of completely independent standard like what you have with government funded defense attorneys so that these journalists aren't accountable to public officials but instead are accountable to some sort of independent review board to be sure that our money is spent wisely without you know, ending up with some sort of propaganda organ like russia today.
Our third argument is about preserving minority viewpoints.
I want to be clear, we're not saying that libertarians need a government funded news magazine, although that would be kind of amusing, or that we should be funding you know publishing pravda or whatever in the united states.
What we are saying is that the government should fund news organizations run by and for members of minority ethnic and religious groups.
Groups like hispanic and african americans are systematically excluded from the private media.
Because they are a smaller market than white americans, it's never going to be as profitable to try to appeal to them, so they get ignored by major news industry.
We think that the government can step in and correct for this by providing funding for members of minority groups to go to journalism school providing avenues for them to be able to publish their journalism and this will increase awareness of issues that face minority communities and also the ability of them to advocate for themselves rather than to rely on white journalists.
So for these three reasons we should subsidize journalism.
Thank you.