We should not abolish breast implants.
Ultimately, I think that what the other side in this debate is missing is that no one is forced to get breast implants in the status quo.
We don't let children get these kinds of elective surgeries so we're only talking about adults here and we think that ultimately the most feminist thing to do is to maximize women's ability to make choices about their own bodies.
For governments that are largely made up of men to decide what women can and can't do with their bodies just seems like an extension of the kinds of sexist governments that we've seen for centuries.
Therefore, we think you should maximize individual choice in order to allow breast implants and in order to let people self-actualize.
So that's our first argument about personal choice.
We think that every individual knows what's best for them.
For most people that means not getting breast implants.
But when rachel concedes that some people, such as those who have had a mastectomy, ought be allowed to get breast implants, she admits that there are circumstances when we need to let individuals make a choice.
There's no reason that a porn star choosing to get breast implants in order to improve her income is any less deserving than anyone else being able to make decisions about her own body.
Even though breast implants make some people uncomfortable because they're hyper-sexualizing the people who get them, it's up to that person to decide if they want to be hyper-sexualized.
We think that it's not very difficult to understand what it means for your standing in society if you get breast implants.
People can imagine what it would be like and make informed decisions and if they can't make informed decisions that we can have doctors give them more information.
So ultimately, we need to defer to personal choice here because the personal choice to get a breast implant is no less legitimate than the choice to get a tattoo, or a piercing, or anything else that people do to be more attractive.
Our second argument is that we shouldn't treat body modifications as distinct from other choices that people make.
So this is kind of a more specific version of our last argument.
Essentially, the other team supposes that because this is a pretty significant modification to a person's body, that it ought be treated differently than other decisions that people make but we just don't think that's true.
Your body is your property the same way that your house is your property or your car is your property.
In the same way that we let people do whatever they want with their house or their car as long as it doesn't harm others, we should let them do the same with their body.
There is no reason why one's body ought be treated as distinct from other parts of your property.
Ultimately, it's just not up to the government or any other moralizer to decide what we do with our property generally and I think that the other team in this debate has to explain why your body is uniquely different here.
We think that if anything, your body is your most inviolate property since there's no way that you can sell it, no way that you can trade it, it always belongs to you.
Therefore, we think it should be entirely up to you how to use it and that includes body modification and our last argument is that banning breast implants won't change sexual preferences.
It's not like before breast implants nobody cared about breasts and then after breast implants everyone went crazy for them.
Obviously, the reason that breast implants were invented is that people already cared about breast size.
So beauty norms are not going to change just because you ban breast implants.
Instead, you'll just take away people's ability to choose how they want to conform to those beauty norms.
We don't think there's anything wrong with people choosing to be more conventionally attractive and if that means getting breast implants, we've already explained why that should be their choice.
But the standards and the sexism that exists surrounding breast size is not going to change and not going to go away just because you ban breast implants.
So there's no solution to the problem that rachel identifies in her policy.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban breast implants.
Thank you.