We should not cancel the social security tax.
So to begin with the last speaker didn't make it very clear what this debate is about so I'd like to give some framework.
The social security tax is a roughly ten percent payroll tax on income earned from labor in the US.
So basically ten percent of your wages, roughly speaking, are going to go toward social security in the form of a payroll tax.
For some people it's a little bit less.
But in general this is a flat tax and that's important for this debate.
So two arguments.
The first is that it's necessary that we fund retirements in some form.
The other side can say, oh we're okay with private pensions and the like, but we think that the problem with that is that if you don't force people to set money aside for retirement, one, there's no way for the state to help people who are elderly who have fallen into poverty currently because there's no existing retirement fund that's paid for by social security tax, and two, if there's a market downturn in the future that causes people to lose their pensions or lose their retirement savings plans, then ultimately those people are going to be reliant on the state for help and then there won't be any money set aside for them either.
Social security is insurance.
It's not people's primary retirement the way that the other speaker presents it to you.
It's a way, rather, for people to guarantee that they won't fall into deep poverty during their old age.
People, despite the existence of the social security tax, still have to save if they want to have, you know, the kind of quality of life that they're used to.
Social security merely serves as a fall back for these people.
So given that we're going to need some sort of old age insurance plan, no matter what we do, and given that the funding for that is likely to take the form of some sort of tax tied to labor, at the end of the day we're going to have something very much like social security.
So with that in mind I'm going to move on to my second point about why we should reform social security rather than get rid of it.
The other side in this debate is throwing the baby out with the bath water.
We think there are a few easy steps that we could take to make social security solvent and to make the social security tax more fair.
I'll start by talking about the tax.
We think first of all that the social security tax should be progressive.
At the time when it was implemented most americans paid very little income tax.
So there wasn't a strong model in this country or any other in the world to my knowledge for highly progressive taxation.
Now, obviously, if you look at the US tax code, it's quite progressive.
So we think that the social security tax should perhaps have a bottom bracket of ten percent and then have higher brackets as well for people who earn more so that they contribute their fair share to the system and that this would go to great lengths to alleviate some of the problems with social security.
We also think that perhaps the tax should be tied to all forms of income, rather than merely to labor.
And then that way we could make sure that people who primarily earn money through things like capital gains or real estate would also be paying into the retirement insurance fund.
So how can we fix social security?
The problem with the program isn't that not enough people are paying in, it's that congress uses it like a piggy bank.
Basically one way that the US government avoids borrowing money is to lend money internally.
Social security has billions and billions of dollars of cash on hand.
So congress basically takes money out and leaves social security with an IOU with the understanding that congress will later return the money.
Now this would work fine except that congress never really seems to get around to returning all the money that they're supposed to.
So I propose that we ban congress from taking any money out of social security except to spend on old age insurance.
If we did this, the program would be essentially solvent for decades down the line.
And if you did this and lined it up also with a progressive form of taxation, we think that the program will be solvent indefinitely.
So for these reasons we should not cancel the social security tax.
Thank you.