We should ban targeted killing.
Targeted killing is a form of assassination which is based on the presumption of guilt.
Effectively what happens is a state chooses to target the citizen of another state or their own citizen operating abroad and kill them through extrajudicial means.
So, for instance, the united states has assassinated many leaders in latin america using targeted killing, and this has also been used in the war on terror, most famously with the murder of osama bin laden.
We would argue that individual states should stop using this practice.
So we're not arguing for some sort of united nations movement, but rather for each state to ban the use of this practice.
We have two arguments for our side this evening.
The first is that targeted killings are unethical.
We tell you that, ultimately, while states themselves may not have ethical obligations, they are made up of individuals who do in fact have those obligations.
What this means is that states ought act in such a way as to allow the individuals who constitute that state to live up to their own obligations.
Because no individual has the right to kill any other, particularly in this extrajudicial fashion, we don't see where the state could gain such a privilege, when the state is actually just an agglomeration of different individuals.
We tell you that, ultimately, because it would be wrong for any person to do this, it must as well be wrong for the state to do so, and that because individuals ought not do unethical things, that the state similarly should be bound by some code of ethics.
But what's more, we think that it's troubling for the state to use this type of killing, because it is extralegal.
Ultimately, states rely on their legitimacy, which comes from the people and which comes from the rule of law.
And when you use extrajudicial killings, you are acting outside of the rule of law, and you put the legitimacy of your own state at risk as a result.
So ultimately, we think that this is unethical, both for the people who constitute the state and because it undermines the judicial underpinnings of said state.
Our second argument is that this is contrary to international norms.
Targeted killings were relatively common throughout the cold war.
The united states tried to kill fidel castro on about a half dozen different occasions, and many members of government and other officers of different states were killed during the cold war.
Since then, most states have sworn off this type of activity.
There is now a strong international norm against targeted killings or assassinations.
Ultimately, because of the instability that it creates and because of the violation of other nations' sovereignty, this has become something that is completely unacceptable in the international sphere.
And I think that that violation of sovereignty is important because ultimately, the international system is based on the idea that every state is sovereign over their own soil.
If states start to operate in one another's territory, then you run the risk of a breakdown of the system of what's called westphalian sovereignty, where every state is sovereign over their own people and their own territory.
When states disrespect that sovereignty, they lead to more disrespecting of that sovereignty in the future.
So ultimately this runs the risk of small countries, in particular, having their sovereignty trampled in the future.
But what's more, because it damages the sovereignty, which also underlies institutions like the international court and the united nations, which rely on the idea that all of their members are sovereign, it makes it more difficult to use those bodies as a way to solve problems that would otherwise be solved by assassination, not only because it undermines their members, but also because it removes the incentive for states to participate in them, because they now have this extrajudicial method instead.
So we think that this will lead to a breakdown of these international organizations and systems.
For all of these reasons, we should ban targeted killing.
Thank you.