We should increase fuel taxes.
So this is a debate talking about taxes on gas or petrol, taxes on diesel, taxes on natural gas for heating homes, any sort of fossil fuel that is used as fuel by the general public.
We think there should be higher taxes on it then there are right now in the status quo.
In the US for instance, this might take the form of rising gas taxes at the state level.
So two arguments.
First, how do we reduce the use of fossil fuels?
We think that right now there is an enormous cost to society from the use of fossil fuels by individuals.
If you look at things like rising CO two levels and pollution that the government has to clean up, we see that there are lots of costs to people choosing to drive gasoline cars, or to heat their homes with natural gas, and that most people use these methods over other methods because they are cheaper right now.
So if we make these methods more expensive, then one, people are paying the cost of the damage that they're doing more directly, and two, suddenly it makes sense for them to actually use other fuel sources instead.
Right now for instance, buying energy that's produced only through solar power rather than coal might be more expensive than buying electricity from a plant that produces by coal.
But by driving up the cost of electricity produced by burning coal, everyone will switch over to the cheaper solar powered energy.
We think that this is an effective tool because people one, want to have the lowest cost possible, and two, deserve to have to pay for the harms that they incur on the rest of society.
People shouldn't be able to freeload off of the government cleaning up after their pollution and mitigating the damage of their carbon dioxide.
The big impact of all this is that we think that the amount of CO two omitted would be much lower.
Many fewer people would choose to drive on their own, or to drive cars that use gas rather than hybrids.
Many fewer people would heat their homes using fossil fuels, and ultimately, national emissions would go way down, and this would make a more sustainable environment in the future.
So we think that's enough to win the debate.
But our second argument is about funding alternatives, because right now there's a lack of money actually going into finding alternatives to fossil fuels.
So why do we solve this?
First of all, we can earmark the money from the tax to go to developing alternative energy sources.
For instance, money that goes to or is raised by taxing coal emissions could be put towards building solar plants, or researching better solar technology.
Money that goes or is brought in from a gasoline tax might be put towards encouraging more people to drive cars powered by liquid natural gas, or encouraging people to drive more electric cars instead.
Perhaps we could give tax credits for electric cars, and in general make it easier for people to upgrade their old dirty technology to new, clean technology.
And on top of that, whereas right now there isn't a lot of infrastructure for the use of clean energy, we think that that infrastructure could be created on our side using this tax.
In other words, there are some people who will have to use fossil fuels no matter what, like certain big businesses that produce electricity, certain long haul trucks, et cetera.
These groups won't be able to cut back on use.
So money is going to be coming in from these taxes.
At the end of the day, therefore, we think that it is better to spend this money on infrastructure for the future, rather than to put it into a general fund where it'll just get sort of frittered away, and eventually we won't have that income as no one uses gas anymore.
So on our side we take advantage of the fact that we have this temporarily really high revenue stream, and use it to plan for a better future.
In this case that would be investing in things like charging stations for electric cars, or other ways for people to heat their homes, and ultimately we think that this will make the country more sustainable in the long term.
So because we reduce CO two emissions, and because we better future proof our country, we think that we should increase fuel taxes.
Thank you.