We should not protect whistleblowers.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why whistle blowers don't deserve unique protections, in direct response to the things that we've just heard from sam.
The first thing that I'd like to point out is that sam relies on the assumption that whistle blowers act out of altruistic motives and that they exercise good judgment, but I think that even if one of those things is true, very rarely are both of them true.
To use edward snowden as an example, I think most people would agree that edward snowden had altruistic motives, in terms of helping the american people, and that he uncovered a huge amount of maybe not corruption, but something that made the world very uncomfortable, and revealed it to the public, that he did a public service.
The problem is that he exercised terrible judgment when he put out the documents.
He had no idea what was actually in most of the documents he released.
The same thing is true of chelsea manning.
Most of the documents that she released she had no clue what was in them which, as a result, meant that information that was not putting anyone in danger, but which the release of which could put people in danger, was made publicly available.
So we just don't think that whistle blowers tend to actually exercise good judgment.
Why?
Well, because the right thing and good judgment are both subjective, and we don't think it should be up to one cowboy to make the decision about what the public needs to know.
Our second argument is that this leads to unequal access to information and actually makes it worse than the status quo.
Why?
Well, first of all, there's a huge incentive now to have this kind of political character assassination.
If you work at a business that you don't like, then you can just go out and dump all of their private documentation to the public and reveal all the awful things they do, while other businesses that haven't had a whistleblower look comparatively better.
So it's basically just a political decision which businesses are going to experience these leaks.
It doesn't actually reflect who is the worst or who is doing things that the public needs to know about the most.
And not only that, we tell you that this just favors businesses that are in countries with more restrictive laws.
Right?
If the US implements this policy and singapore doesn't, then this just favors businesses who do bad things and happen to be in singapore rather than the united states, just to use singapore as an example, not to pick on them.
The last thing I'd like to talk about is why whistle blowers actually have basically no deterrent effect.
Most of sam's argument relies on the idea that whistle blowers can make the world a better place, that they can force governments or companies to stop doing bad things, but I think that's empirically not the case.
The NSA didn't stop spying on everyone because of edward snowden.
He actually achieved nothing despite the fact that he destroyed his own life.
The program continues unabated, except that a handful more governments now have access to some of that information.
Similarly, probably the biggest example of a whistle blower going after private corruption, the panama papers, achieved absolutely nothing.
The panama papers, if you've forgotten, because it wasn't a big news event, revealed that essentially every wealthy person in the world uses offshore accounts to avoid paying taxes, largely by going to countries like panama that are willing to turn a blind eye to people who are avoiding their taxes.
Basically, every multimillionaire and billionaire in the world is doing this.
What happened as a result of the panama papers?
Absolutely nothing.
Literally zero.
Whistle blowers do not have the ability to stop companies from doing bad things.
It's so easy for them to just run a PR campaign or just do nothing and wait, and the public will forget about what happened as soon as the news moves on to the next item in the news cycle.
It's also fairly easy for companies to claim that they're being attacked unfairly, and we know for public opinion, even after a whistleblower has come out.
We think that the public is a very fickle has a very limited ability to actually enforce change on private actors and that as a result, whistle blowers don't have a clear mechanism to enforce change on private actors.
For all these reasons, we should not protect whistleblowers.
Thank you.