We should not raise the retirement age.
So right now in many countries around the world people are required to retire at some point in their sixties.
We think that the ages should be kept somewhere around the mid sixties rather than being raised into the seventies or even higher according to tim's model, wherein it would remain proportionate to the life expectancy.
After all, the life expectancy in many countries now is eighty years of age and we just don't think people ought be working until they're seventy-eight.
With this in mind we have three arguments for our side, the first is about how this would harm young people.
In order for there to be opportunities for people to move up the ladder in their career, people above them have to get promoted.
After all, if you are a junior employee then you need a position in the middle of the company to open up before you can be promoted to fill that position and your career can advance.
If no one is retiring for the next thirteen years because the retirement age has just been raised, or if people are working much longer in general, then fewer positions are going to open up for young people to fill and move up through the company.
Ultimately, because people tend to reach the acme of their career well before they retire so that they can do that job for some time, we think people are likely to hold positions at the top for decades if you raise the retirement age.
What that means is that, commensurately, some people are going to be stuck at the bottom of the corporate ladder for decades.
And these are people who aren't going to have sufficient incomes to do things like: buy a home, buy a car, invest, send their children to college.
So ultimately this has effects for the entire economy because whereas older people tend to save their money more, younger people tend to spend more directly.
At that point we should prefer more money going to younger people because their spending will drive economic growth and prosperity.
But we also think it's unfair to punish these younger people because the benefits that accrue to the elderly are benefits that they benefited from when they were younger.
In other words, they were able to take advantage of people retiring early when they began their careers and it seems unfair that they now get to have the best of both worlds and have reapt the benefits of a early retirement age when they were young and don't have to retire once they get old, it seems like all of the benefits are accruing to one age group at the expense of all others.
Our second argument is about why we ought let people enjoy the benefits of technology.
The reason why people live so much longer now is that we have better medical technology.
What's the point of creating a world where people are able to live well after the traditional age of retirement if we're just going to move the age of retirement?
What I'm getting at here is that if you raise the retirement age then ultimately the only people who benefit from the better medical technology that we have today are the very wealthy who can afford to retire whenever they want.
For everyone else, they're just working even longer than they were before and ultimately they aren't able to enjoy the extra years of life that technology has given them.
We think that people deserve to be allowed to enjoy the benefits of living in a more developed society and that this is taken from them if you force them to work even longer.
Our third and final point is that older people, even though they live longer, still don't work well into their old age.
In other words, even if people now live into their eighties that doesn't mean that seventy-five year olds today are as fit as sixty-five year olds were eighty years ago.
They're not, they just don't die.
At the end of the day we tell you that these people are still frail, they may have early onset dementia, they don't have the same amount of energy, ultimately, they're not as well suited to doing work as people who are younger than they are.
So we think that at some point you do need to require people to retire because remember that employers can't just fire elderly people, there are laws against ageism, so you need to have some sort of mandatory way to require people to retire so that employers don't have to keep these ineffective employees on the books.
For all these reasons we should not raise the retirement age.
Thank you.