We should fight against gender inequality.
In order to make this a more spirited and hopefully interesting debate, we're going to say that this means that we should take radical action to eliminate inequality in our society between men and women.
We think that one form this could take would be taxes on men's income which are then redistributed to women in order to offset the differences between men and women's incomes.
So right now, if women make about seventy five cents on the dollar compared to men, which I believe is the current statistic in the united states, then we would be okay with taxing men twelve point five percent of their income and transferring this to women in order to offset the advantage that men have in terms of income over women.
We have two arguments for why we think this is justified.
The first is that we think that society owes reparations to women.
Firstly under this, what are reparations?
When a certain community has been persecuted and mistreated for hundreds of years, we think that that community has been unable to build up capital and invest in itself in the same way that other communities are able to.
And while men and women live in the same communities, we see that, historically, patriarchal power structures have prevented women from accumulating their own capital and kept them dependent on men for survival.
What this means is that women today are starting, basically, behind men in the race for their career because in the past, women have been prevented from building up institutions and opportunities for themselves.
There've been some steps towards correcting this, like scholarships for women scientists, but these obviously fall short for most women.
The majority of women are going to be poorer than men no matter what they do, no matter how talented they are, simply because of the fact that they are women.
We think, therefore, that it's clear that we need to level out the differences between men and women and that the only way to do this is to transfer wealth from the richer group to the poorer group, from men to women.
And we think that doing this with an income tax is the fairest way since it's very easy to measure the ways in which women are paid less than men, so it's relatively easily corrected.
For this reason, we should fight against gender inequality using this redistributive tax.
And our second argument is about tearing down superstructures.
What do I mean by superstructures?
Basically, humans live within certain social structures that limit our freedom.
One of them is the patriarchy.
Essentially, the patriarchy is this inherited idea that men need to act a certain way and women need to act a certain way because men are superior to women, and this idea goes back to ancient times, and maybe even to primitive humanity.
But today, it manifest itself through lots of harmful norms, such as that women can't do certain jobs or that men can't express their emotions, things like that.
Obviously, these superstructures limit everyone's freedom, not just women's.
Even the privileged group, namely, men, in this superstructure of the patriarchy is still harmed by it.
We think that the best way to destroy the patriarchy is to damage the ways that it interacts with other superstructures, namely, capitalism.
The system of market exchange that we live in today in highly developed countries is another superstructure that controls how we live.
All of us get up every morning and go to work so that we can make money, so that we can do it all again.
These structures intersect because we all live within both of them.
So if we can use the tools of capitalism, namely, the ability to measure people's productivity and income and redistribute that productivity and income to fight against another structure, namely, the patriarchy, then we're using one of the superstructures for good rather than harm, which is a rare thing.
We think, therefore, that we ought to do this in order to fight against the patriarchy.
This will ultimately increase freedom for everyone as a result.
Thank you.