We should ban lotteries.
So in this debate we're talking about the types of public lotteries that are common in the US where every state runs a lottery and also private lotteries that are legal in other countries where a private institution sells tickets to that lottery.
With this in mind three arguments for our side.
The first is that lotteries amount to a tax on those who are least able to pay taxes.
What do we mean by this?
The people who are most likely to buy lottery tickets and participate in this very low buy-in form of gambling, because often lottery tickets cost one dollar or pound or euro, are those who are very low income.
Many times convenience stores and things like that in low income neighborhoods have huge displays of lottery tickets that are tremendously tremendously popular with the people who live in those communities.
So these people are basically throwing away good money after bad buying lottery tickets when they could be spending it on things that would actually better their life.
I'm not telling you that we know better than those people how they ought to spend their money, but what I am saying is that in particular, when lotteries are used as a source of fundraising for the state, it seems immoral to fundraise from those who are least able to lose out on this money.
We think that people in these low income communities are probably less educated about how unlikely they are to win the lottery and ultimately are being scammed, in some cases, by their local government.
We think that we should ban lotteries because they take advantage of low income, largely less educated people who aren't able to assess the risks as well as someone who has the benefits of higher education and things like that.
Our second argument is that lotteries are abusive to gamblers.
It's relatively easy if you have a gambling addiction to do things like avoid gambling websites or casinos.
You can just choose not to go to las vegas, etcetera.
But it's much harder never to be exposed to lotteries.
Because tickets are often sold in the kinds of convenience stores that you have to go to day to day in your ordinary life.
Since many people who have gambling addictions are compulsive, we think that these people are being put in an unfair situation.
In the same way that we don't have cigarettes pushed in people's face at the grocery store in many areas now, we shouldn't have lottery tickets available either.
The other side might tell you, oh but people are exposed to things like beer and cigarettes and lottery tickets all the time and we trust them to make their own decisions.
But we do think that people are more at risk of relapsing into gambling or of being taken advantage of when lottery tickets are sold all over the place.
But the reason why lotteries are especially abusive is because the buy-in cost is so low.
The only thing that's comparable is a slot machine.
But we tell you that at the point where people can go to the gas station and spend one dollar and get a lottery ticket, it's very likely that people are going to be taken advantage of and that those who need help aren't going to get it because they're going to keep spending their money on lottery tickets.
Our third and final argument is that we don't think that lotteries are consistent with regulations on other types of gambling.
In general joe q public is not free to set up a blackjack table in his basement if he wants to.
But in many countries around the world he is free to run a lottery.
Or, more likely, institutions are allowed to run lotteries.
Or on the other hand, in the united states many areas that don't have any form of gambling still allow state run lotteries to be held.
We tell you that gambling regulations ought be consistent.
It's fundamentally unfair to allow one form of lottery, like a state owned lottery or a privately run lottery, and not to allow other forms of gambling, like card games or slot machines.
At that point the government is effectively choosing winners and losers in the gambling market.
We think that this is and by that I mean the market of people selling gambling services, not the people playing the games.
But we think that this is fundamentally unfair in and that states ought either allow gambling in a regulated fashion or not allow it, rather than privilege one form of gambling over another when the harms are all roughly the same.
For these reasons we should ban lotteries.
Thank you.