Single sex schools bring more good than harm.
So in this debate we're gonna be very clear, we're talking about all levels of education.
Primary school, secondary school and university.
And in terms of bring more good than harm we think that ultimately this is good for all of the students that go to these schools and society as a whole.
So our first argument is that we think that these schools are uniquely empowering to women.
Studies show us, and personal experience I'm sure will inform you as well, that women tend to speak up less in classroom situations than men.
Men often assert themselves more and speak more loudly and get called on more often by teachers.
So when you have single sex schools, it's more likely that women or girls get called upon and are able to express their opinions and learn directly from interaction with the teacher.
And we think that this is a way for women and girls to have opportunities in education that they otherwise wouldn't have as a result of boys being called upon or speaking over them in the classroom.
Second under this, we tell you that this provides unique opportunities for female leadership.
For similar reasons that boys tend to be more boisterous and that societies tells us that men should be leaders more so than women, we see that oftentimes clubs and teams are going to be in bed by boys more than girls in mixed sex schools.
So we tell you that when you have more opportunities for women and girls to fill leadership roles, for instance, at the elementary and secondary levels, that you're more likely to get women as leaders in the workplace and in government.
We see that many of the men who go on to be leaders in business or government were the presidents at their debate societies or the captain of their soccer team and we think the same would be true for women who would go on to be leaders as well.
But single sex education offers many more opportunities for women to have these leadership roles because boys aren't able to exercise outsize ability to take these positions from them simply by being loud or because of gender norms.
We think that this is a massive benefit for society as a whole because there's a shortage of women in government, in business or in these leadership roles, and single sex education could help to solve that.
Our last point in terms of why this uniquely empowers women is that we think this increases their access to different fields of study.
When you have a an integrated education system were boys and girls are together, we see that oftentimes boys are funneled toward science and engineering and math and girls are funneled towards english and literature and history and things like that.
Ultimately what this means is that girls are being funneled into the subjects that have fewer, low paying jobs.
This is part of the reason why women make less money than men in society.
It's not just a matter of the fact that women make less money for the same work then men, but also that from a young age women are encouraged to go into jobs that pay less money.
For instance, primary school teachers are most often women in the united states and that's a lower paying job than university professor, which is most often men.
So we think that you could break up the sort of track mentality at a younger age by having single sex education because the best math student will always be a girl, and the best science student will always be a girl, so these girls will naturally be sent on to universities where as women they'll have more opportunities to get into these high paying fields and to diversify them.
Our second argument is about general quality of education.
We think that this is less important than the last issue, that empowering women is the biggest issue in this debate, but that it still matters.
Firstly, we tell you that the single sex schools are likely to have better discipline.
Particularly for secondary school students we think that having a mixed sex school can lead to a lack of discipline.
Oftentimes especially boys will be distracted by girls or will behave inappropriately towards girls and this means that teachers have to spend time dealing with those problems and you know, there might be bullying and other issues that go on that would be less prevalent in a single sex school.
We also tell you that it's easier to target the specific needs of students.
Boys, for instance, tend to develop more slowly in elementary and primary schools.
So we see that you would be able to introduce new skills in a more age appropriate level for the different sexes if you had segregated schools.
So we think that for these reasons single sex schools bring more good than harm.
Thank you.