We should not subsidize investigative journalism.
Danny tells you, most importantly, that investigative journalism facilitates democracy and that subsidies are necessary to preserve investigative journalism.
I'm going to respond to both of these arguments to explain why these subsidies are actually bad for the institution of investigative journalism that danny and I both agree is important to society.
So first, subsidies undermine independence.
As danny correctly points out the reason why investigative journalism is so important is that it acts as a fourth estate effectively, a check on government that is uniquely external to the government.
If you start subsidizing the media suddenly it's no longer independent.
I don't think that anyone thinks that, for instance, the BBC is as effective a critic of the british government as the guardian even if the BBC does have a lot of independence.
Why is that the case?
Well the BBC wouldn't exist without the british government and that's in one of the freest country in the world with one of the most important state subsidized media companies.
We think that in less democratic countries, for instance like turkey, state run or state funded media has much less independence from the government and is therefore not able to really critique the actions of the government.
If you actually do value the ability of the media to be a check on the government's power you need the media to be independent from the government but when you give them subsidies they now become beholden to politicians.
They can't afford to bite the hand that feeds them so they're forced to run articles that are more positive about the government's policy or not to act on information they become aware of for instance, state run media might not have been willing to go after richard nixon about watergate.
So we think that because both sides agree that the media needs to be a check on the state that it's important to preserve the independence of the media from the state and therefore that subsidies are something that's undesirable to both sides.
But our second argument is that subsidies are actually unnecessary.
First of all, we would agree that today there are fewer companies practicing investigative journalism than there were sixty years ago but we don't think that's necessarily a bad thing.
As long as the quality of the investigative journalism is good, it doesn't really matter how many companies do it.
Even if fewer cities in america or other large western countries have independent newspapers that do this type of journalism, we don't think that really matters because the biggest and best papers, your new york times and your guardians, still exist and are still able to present that kind of check on the government and those were the newspapers that were really the check on the government to begin with not small town newspapers or papers in more rural areas.
So we think that you can still access all of the benefits of investigative journalism even if it's less profitable than it was a few decades ago because these kind of keystone or very important papers still exist.
But secondly, I'd like to point to the guardian as a really effective newspaper for providing a check on government.
The manchester guardian, if you don't know, doesn't rely significantly on money from advertisers or any outside source.
They have a large endowment that was established to preserve their independence about a hundred years ago and the money has been well managed so that the guardian is sitting on a mountain of cash.
As a result, they can take any editorial stance they like.
They can investigate anybody they want to and go after anyone no matter how powerful.
We think that this is a much better model for investigative journalism than having government subsidies.
We would like to see more journals or more newspapers that are left large endowments and that have that kind of financial independence from business and government to go after abuses in our society.
So we think that's what sustainable, not government subsidy.
For all these reasons, we should not subsidize investigative journalism.
Thank you.