We should not subsidize electric cars.
A few arguments for our side today: first, we tell you that this is ultimately a subsidy for the rich.
When you subsidize things like teslas, the people who benefit from that subsidy are not working class people who can't afford to buy new cars, its wealthier people who can afford these cars.
It may be true that the subsidy could make things like teslas more accessible to more people, but the vast majority, the working class people, who can't afford to buy a new car, period, will not benefit from the subsidy.
What we see, therefore, is that you are taking tax money that's derived from the entire population and distributing it to wealthy people.
We think that this is fundamentally unjust, that whenever possible the state ought to allocate funds to those who are most needy.
Why is this true?
The marginal value of a dollar to someone who has very little money is much higher than the marginal value of a dollar to someone with a lot of money.
So we see, therefore, that our money goes furthest when it is spent helping those with the least amount of property or the least amount of wealth.
At that point, we simply don't think the subsidy is a good use of funds, because it's being allocated to people who already have personal resources.
And I'd like to point out that while this may encourage some people to buy electric cars, many wealthy people would already do so without the subsidies.
So all that changes is the time frame rather than whether or not they actually by an electric car at all.
This leads nicely into our second claim, which is that the market will ultimately see that most people drive electric cars.
Right now, electric cars are already becoming more and more popular, without lots of subsidies.
We tell you that it's quite likely that in the future, as people see how much money they can save on gas and as more electric cars become available on the used car market, that their adoption will rise even higher.
In particular, as the other side tells you, oil and gas prices are going to continue to rise in the long term.
What we see, therefore, is that it will become less affordable for people to have gas-powered cars, so they'll turn to electric cars as a replacement.
Given that this is true, there's no need for government intervention.
When the free market can already solve this problem with more efficiency, we don't think the state needs to get involved.
All that will happen with these subsidies is the creation of a bureaucracy and corporate dependence on the subsidies.
When you have the types of subsidies that they're talking about on a large scale, you need offices of people to administer them, and certain companies are going to crop up that depend entirely on the subsidies for their business to succeed.
We think that it would be preferable to let this take place naturally, without creating this dependence, so that we don't have to have this bureaucracy indefinitely.
At the end of the day, we think that that would save the taxpayers money and free up government resources for use on other projects instead.
Because state money is fungible and it could be spent on other projects instead that could benefit more people, we think that would be a better use of the state's money.
Our third argument is that by subsidizing electric cars, we crowd out other technology.
I'd like to point out that electric cars are not the only type of alternative energy that exist and that there is no one type of electric car.
By subsidizing them right now, you might discourage the production of things like hydrogen-powered cars which in the long term, for all we know, could be more effective and even greener.
If you let the market take its course, then the better product will probably win out through competition, but when you introduce subsidies, you pervert the market and better products might not win out, because they don't have access to these subsidies.
But what's more, when you introduce subsidies right now, you lock people into existing technology.
Companies that have already bought their brought their product, pardon me, to market are more likely to be able to take advantage of these subsidies.
What that means is that we'll be locked into their version of electric cars rather than a potentially better product that might be introduced if we waited a few years before encouraging people to purchase these electric cars.
So for these reasons, we should not subsidize electric cars.
Thank you.