We should not cancel the patriot act.
On our side, we think that if the patriot act were repealed, it would actually lead to a much worse world, and all of the harms that are done by the patriot act could, in fact, be magnified.
We have two main arguments.
The first is that congress today is much worse than they were in two thousand one, and the second is a response to rachel's points about people's rights.
So, first, I think that you have to recognize that if we were to repeal the patriot act today, it would be the current congress making decisions about what would replace it.
So you have to ask yourself: who do you trust to make better decisions, the congress that was elected in two thousand or the congress that was elected in twenty sixteen?
Given the existence of many far-right republicans and tea partiers in congress and in the senate today, I think that the senate now is actually less responsible, as we can see from their inability to, say, create a budget, or to end stupid wars in iraq, or to deal with pressing economic problems.
It's become increasingly clear that our government is dysfunctional, and while that was the case in two thousand, it was less the case.
So I think that rachel needs to explain to you why we would get a better bill out of the current congress run by paul ryan than we got out of the one in two thousand.
I'd like to respond here to what rachel said about political will.
A couple of things: one, it doesn't matter if the american people like a bill, it matters if their representatives do.
We have a trustee system of government.
If people don't like a bill, then they can choose not to reelect their representative, but people generally do reelect incumbents.
And I think, most importantly, george bush won by a significant margin in two thousand four, which would seem to indicate that people actually were supportive of the patriot act and people did opt into this, since he was so closely associated with the patriot act.
And in response to what rachel tells you about how people were irrational after nine eleven, I'm really curious when they've become rational since.
Is the america that elected donald trump more rational than the america of two thousand one?
Has a congress that can't pass a budget or agree on literally anything, a congress that just approved a known rapist to be a supreme court justice actually going to do a better job at this than the congress that existed then?
People were definitely afraid after nine eleven, but that doesn't undermine the validity of what they did.
Rachel made the comparison of people who are too drunk to consent, but I don't think that the country was drunk after nine eleven.
Well, maybe that evening, but in general, like this law was passed by people who were sober and trying to do their best to deal with a difficult situation.
For our second claim, we're going to talk about the rights that rachel brought up and why we don't think that the patriot act is necessarily rights violative.
First of all, rights exist by convention, not by nature.
If the public says that there's no right to privacy by voting for representatives who make laws that undermine privacy, then there is no right to privacy.
Right?
There's no like word of god that gives people the right to privacy.
It doesn't exist in nature.
So it's unclear to me where people could get it except from the law.
And if the law is explicitly created so that people don't have a right to privacy, which is not unique to the patriot act, then people don't have a right to privacy.
I mentioned that the violations of people's privacy are not unique to the patriot act.
Neither are secret courts.
Right?
Many of the court's rachel talked about, where you can be charged, where warrants can be issued by judges who have no public accountability, where people are convicted without ever being able to face their accusers, exist for other reasons as well.
There was a an act to authorize routine spending for the military a few years ago that included provisions for secret courts, for instance.
This isn't just a patriot act problem.
This is a larger problem with american culture, and getting rid of the patriot act wouldn't restore democratic norms or protect people's right to a fair trial.
For all of these reasons, we should not cancel the patriot act.
Thank you.