We should ban abortions.
So I want to be very clear what this debate is about.
When we say ban we mean when there is no medical reason for the abortion, we wouldn't allow it to be performed.
So a medical reason might be the mother's physical or mental health.
Obviously if it's a threat to the mother then we would be okay with the abortion, or if the fetus is damaged damaged in some way such that it would be unable to lead a successful life.
So for instance, if there's some trouble in the development of the fetus such that it's going to be dead at birth, we're okay with aborting it and removing it, and terminating the pregnancy then.
And on top of that, I'd like to point out that we're still completely okay with things like plan b, all forms of birth control, and other types of contraception and efforts to educate people about sexual health.
So with that in mind, I think there are two big arguments in this debate.
The first and most important it's all obviously that abortion is fundamentally unethical.
So the first thing under this is that there's a rights comparison to be made.
Obviously there are some trade offs when we talk about abortion between the rights of the mother and the rights of the fetus.
We think that this trade off is a bodily autonomy versus life.
So if you prevent someone from having access to an abortion, you do violate their right to bodily autonomy by taking away their ability to make decisions about their own personal health.
But we're okay with doing this because principally we think that the right to life of the fetus outweighs the right to bodily autonomy of the mother.
This is true for a couple of reasons: one, we tell you that the law generally regards the right to life as the most important right.
We see that murder is the most serious crime, and that in general, companies are punished the most harmfully for policies that would damage people's lives, and individuals are held to extremely high standards when it surrounds the lives of others.
Even accidentally terminating the life of another person is still a crime, manslaughter, so we don't see why it should be different in this case when the law otherwise takes a very dim view of the sort of thing.
But on top of that, we think that the right to life is more important than the right to bodily autonomy because it's facilitative to all other rights.
If you aren't alive you can't access any of your rights, and we think that the sum total of every other right is greater than the weight of bodily autonomy.
So for these reasons we think that could be the fetus wins out in this rates comparison on top of that we tell you that all human beings are of equal moral worth.
It seems extremely difficult to say that any one person is more deserving of rights or the protection of the law than any other person.
We also tell you that there's no clear line for personhood during the process of gestation.
You can't say on day eighty two of the pregnancy suddenly the fetus becomes a person, but before that it's basically just a vegetable.
It seems clear that, you know, the zygote, the most initial cluster of cells that's basically a little ball is not a person, and it seems obvious that a fetus one moment before birth is a person, or even throughout most of the third trimester, when it can survive outside the womb after premature birth, that that is a person.
So we think that we need to be conservative here, and in order to avoid killing any people, we need to assume that the fetus is always a person because we don't know when the transition occurs for these reasons it seems clear that abortion is deeply unethical because it requires the risk of killing a human being, because we can't say for certain when this change happens, because it prioritizes a lesser right over a greater right, and because it denies the moral worth of a human being.
Our second argument is about state duties.
We think that governments have an equal obligation to all citizens and people residing in their country we tell you therefore that the fetus ought be no less deserving of the protections of the state then the mother.
I think that the other side might get up here and say that the state owes the mother the right to bodily autonomy or owes the mother the right to healthcare but we think that in the same way it is a strong duty to protect the fetus this is especially strong given that the government so often acts on behalf of children much more strictly than it would on behalf of adults.
We think that that should be even more the case for the fetus because it is even less able to help itself then a child that is born would be.
So for these reasons, because of the rights trade-off we told you about, and because of the obligations of the state, we should ban abortions when there is no medical necessity.
Thank you.