We should not adopt direct democracy.
So we're going to argue that countries should rely on representative governments, similar to what we see in countries like britain today, as opposed to having the power directly in the hands of the people, who would vote to approve the laws rather, I imagine, like ancient athens.
So we have two main arguments.
The first is about how this reduces the level of government to the lowest common denominator.
What I mean about this is that right now when we try to pass laws, we can rely on the fact that members of parliament are informed and educated about issues, at least in theory.
But even in practice, we tell you that MPs are much more likely to be informed and understand complex issues than ordinary voters.
This is true for a few reasons.
First of all, MPs are self-selected as people who actually care about running a country and have some amount of knowledge and information about how the country has been run in the past.
But moreover, there's also a high barrier to entry.
You have to convince a group of experts, in the form of your party, such as the labor party in the united kingdom, that you belong on their list in order to get elected.
So there's a few checks in place to prevent total ignoramuses from coming into government.
Obviously, this isn't always perfect but we think that, in general, you result the result is a much more educated class of people making decisions.
Now the other team is going to say that this is elitist and that ordinary people can make decisions too.
But while ordinary people may be able to make the best decisions for themself on an individual level, they lack access to the information to intelligently decide what an entire country's policy should be.
Basically, you are limited to laws which are easily understood by people with the lowest level of education, with the least amount of information, and with the most amount of bias in order to pass any sort of law.
And we think that what this ultimately means is your country is going to be governed by some sort of a majoritarian policy.
For instance, in britain, you might see only white christian people being effective in government because they're a majority of the country, and so everyone would try to appeal to them in order to pass laws whereas parliament, even if the majority of the voters are white christians and even if many MPs are white christians, is much more aware of the needs of minorities and is able to balance the needs of different groups, because they ultimately: one, represent all of them, and two, have more information about all of these communities.
So we think that that's why it's important that we don't rely on this low lowest common denominator.
But our second argument is that historical examples show us that direct democracy is a terrible idea.
We can see that there are many successful representative democracies around the world, from the united states to britain to india today, but there are, as far as I know, no successful examples of a country run through direct democracy without a very strong other branch of government that actually makes most of their decisions.
If we look back to ancient athens, which is kind of the archetypal example, of a direct democracy, in the fifth century the athenians went to war with sparta.
And ultimately the people voted to continue the war long after it was in their best interest, to invade sicily, which ultimately cost thousands of lives and led the city to be destroyed.
So we see that the best example of a direct democracy in history is actually a state which committed huge atrocities on its neighbors and voted itself into extinction by continuing a fruitless war.
But even if the other side wants to say that ancient history doesn't matter here, we'd point out to you the fact that the state of california, in america, often relies on direct democracy to make important decisions, and it's a disaster.
Californians, for instance, voted to cap property taxes in their state at one percent.
It's one of the lowest rates in the country.
As a result, california has absolutely abysmal schools.
They're ranked near the bottom, below much poorer states, because they're unable to raise funds to fund public education because people are short-sighted and make stupid decisions.
So we can see that direct democracy doesn't have good outcomes, so it's not a good policy to put into place.
For all these reasons, we should not adopt direct democracy.
Thank you.