We should not legalize insider trading.
So basically what we're saying is that if you were privy to some information that would affect a publicly traded company, you should not be able to give that information to other people to help them make investments.
The classic example is that if you worked at company a and you knew that you were about to be purchased by company b and that this would increase the value of their stock a great deal, you should not be allowed to tell this to your brother, so that he could make lots of money by buying stock low.
So our first argument, tying into that example, is about perverse incentives that arise when you allow insider trading.
What do we mean by this?
Right now, basically, the stock market functions because everyone has relatively equal ability to gain information.
Now obviously not everyone has equal access to information.
If you're an expert in computers, then maybe you can tell if some new computer company is going to make lots of money or if it's a stupid idea, but everyone has the ability to access that information and the reason why is that it is put out in the public.
Companies are required to offer paperwork every quarter that explains what their company does, how they're doing financially, etcetera.
So the information is out there even if people make different things of it.
But if insider trading is legalized, then you have an incentive not to release key information for investors because now the people that you want to invest, you can just tell them things and other people, who you don't care about, won't have access to that information.
So this undermines the transparency that is essential for fair investment, and ultimately undermines trust in the market as a result, because people don't think that they have access to the information that they need to make intelligent decisions when they invest.
So we think that's a huge harm of legalizing insider trading.
Our second argument is about fiduciary duties, and this is basically legalese for saying that publicly traded companies have a legal obligation to their shareholders.
What do I mean by this?
If you have a publicly traded company, let's say walmart in the united states, and walmart stocks are being bought and sold by people on the new york stock exchange every day.
Those shareholders whether they be from the walton family, who started the company, or just people in the public are the owners of the company.
And in the united states and many other countries where people invest, you, as the governing body of a corporation, have a legal obligation to the owners of the company to do what is in their best interest.
In other words, you have to help the shareholders make money, that is your legal obligation if you are an executive or an employee of one of these companies.
But we think that insider trading leads people to violate their fiduciary duties, because presumably what you're doing is trying to help other people make money by buying or selling your stock, rather than the existing shareholders, because the shareholders already have access to huge amounts of information about your company.
Presumably the special information you're giving out is information being given to other people to help them benefit at the expense, ultimately, of your shareholders, so we think that you're violating that fiduciary duty.
And our final point, and this responds to some of the arguments that we heard from daniel in his last speech, is that even if there is a problem right now with insider trading, this situation could be much worse.
In other words, danny is quick to tell you that we should legalize insider trading because, " well it goes on, even though it's illegal right now. "
But just because there's a problem doesn't mean that it would get better if we stopped enforcing the ban.
We tell you that in other countries where protections are not as strict as they are in the US or britain, there are greater problems with cronyism.
For instance, in the early nineteen nineties in the former soviet union, many publicly traded companies were sold off for pennies on the dollar, when insiders knew that they were actually worth much more.
But we can avoid that kind of cronyism in the US because the risk of going to jail or losing billions of dollars dissuades people from insider trading.
So it may not be perfect, but it does dissuade people from unethical behavior.
For all these reasons, we should not legalize insider trading.
Thank you.