We should abolish no knock warrants.
So with a no knock warrant a judge effectively tells the police that they're allowed to enter someone's home or private property without alerting that person to their presence.
Usually in the united states the police have to knock on your door, say police, and wait for your permission to enter your home.
Or if they have probable cause, identify themselves, give you a reasonable chance to respond, before they enter your home without your permission.
No knock warrants are a more recent phenomenon which allow the police to knock down your door, shoot flash bangs into your house, and then come in as they wish.
So we're going to argue that these should be completely abolished.
Our first argument is that no knock warrants lead to more people being killed by the police.
Why is this true?
People don't have time to act rationally in the event of a no knock warrant.
Imagine you're just sitting at home in your house and you're some sort of petty criminal and suddenly a bunch of guys with guns run into your living room.
If you're armed, it seems quite likely to me that you won't even have time to process what's going on, you'll just react to defend yourself.
We think this is much more likely to lead to people being shot by the police.
And even if you're unarmed, you're much more likely to run, which could lead to your being shot or attacked because you're resisting arrest.
In the same way we tell you, that people are much more likely to suffer extreme property damage if they don't know that it's the police coming into their house the way they react might lead the police to do more damage to their house.
Things like knocking out windows and doors etcetera.
We think that people need to understand what's going on in order to react in an intelligent way and that you take away the ability for people to make that choice with a no knock warrant.
I realize that in theory these warrants are issued at times when the person wouldn't be someone who would react in the way we would like.
Someone like a drug dealer for instance.
But even those people deserve a chance to protect their life and their property and these no knock warrants infringe upon their ability to do so.
Our second argument is that no knock warrants are fundamentally unjust.
Why is this so?
People have a right to expectation of privacy in the united states.
This is a constitutionally guaranteed right that can't be taken away by any individual judge.
Yet obviously if the police can enter your home at anytime without your permission, your right to privacy is a figment of someone's imagination.
We tell you that ultimately while this may have been ruled constitutional, it seems contrary to the spirit of the law, which is to prevent the government from coming into your home or onto your property without permission.
We think that people can do many things that are distasteful but not illegal and they ought be allowed to do these things in the privacy of their own home without fearing some sort of government intervention.
But aside from that, we think that it's an instance of creeping police authority.
The police have an easier and easier time violating people's civil liberties because of judges issuing these warrants, and we think that this is part of a longer trend of the police becoming more militarized and more powerful compared to the people that they police.
Our third argument is that ultimately if you allow these no knock warrants they will be over used.
This should be really intuitive.
The police are ordinary people who go to work every day and do their job.
They don't want to do a harder job than they absolutely have to.
No knock warrants make things a lot easier for them.
If you have a no knock warrant, the police don't have to worry about getting shot at as much, they don't have to worry about the criminal escaping, ultimately they can just walk in there and take them without even having to announce that they're there.
So the police are always going to seek out these no knock warrants if they're able to do so.
And we've seen in the US that they've gone up in use year after year since they were first introduced.
Ultimately we think that the potential for abuse makes these really risky and that the police, for completely legitimate reasons, will seek to apply them even in cases when they're not strictly legal.
We think that with this in mind, the only policy that will prevent abuse is to ban them completely because they can't be used responsibly.
For these reasons we should abolish no knock warrants.
Thank you.