We should not subsidize wikipedia.
I'm going to explain to you why it would be bad for wikipedia if the united states or other governments were to give wikipedia substantial amounts of its funding.
We have two arguments, one about independence and one about bias.
So, first: independence.
Tim tells you that this money would be given with no strings attached but, in fact, we tell you that there's no such thing.
If a large government were to give wikipedia millions of dollars, they would have an expectation about its content.
What does that look like?
Well, if they like wikipedia right now, then they would probably discourage it from changing in the future.
And recognize that wikipedia has changed a lot over the years in terms of its editorial standards.
Wikipedia is professedly neutral, but the community is constantly redefining what that means in order to deal with new challenges that they face.
But aside from that, we also think that it leads to expectations for content to match the wishes of the donors.
So, if a big company like google, for instance, gave wikipedia money, which I think they've done anonymously in the past, but if they did that, you know, as an official sort of donation to wikipedia, there might be an expectation that wikipedia would devote more time to covering topics that are relevant to that business or that wikipedia would have favorable coverage of that business.
Even though I don't think wikipedia would do that, we'll talk more about perceptions in just a minute, the fact remains that donors would have that expectation.
So what this means is that wikipedia would now have to deal with the fact that donors would come in and give them support and then suddenly pull out, because they weren't happy with content or their wants weren't met.
So as a result, the funding for wikipedia would actually be more unstable than their model right now, where lots of people around the world give them five dollars every now and then.
Our second argument is about the perception of bias.
There're a couple of things about wikipedia that are really incredible.
One is that it's widely seen as authoritative by normal people.
People trust wikipedia and think that what they read there is accurate, which is really rare in this sort of post-truth era that we live in today.
If wikipedia were to be funded by, let's say, the european union, then I think in many places where the EU is seen unfavorably or where people don't trust the european union that, as a result, they would stop trusting wikipedia.
So if like the german or the EU government gave wikipedia lots of money, readers in russia might think that wikipedia is no longer trustworthy because they would see it as anti-russian, even though the editors for the russian wikipedia are, one would assume, predominantly russian.
We also think that this loss of credibility would be very damaging to the non-english wikipedias in particular.
The english wikipedia is great.
I learned a lot from it as a kid, I still learn a lot from it, and I'm told that it's very helpful for people who are learning english all over the globe, but I think that non-english wikipedias are actually more important.
Realize that there are wikipedias in languages in sub-saharan africa that have never had an encyclopedia before.
There are wikipedias in javanese and other languages that just haven't had a huge investment in education in the past for colonial reasons.
I guess the dutch, in that case.
So, as a result, wikipedia is uniquely important to those communities.
Tens of millions of people speak javanese but they don't have their own encyclopedia britannica.
If people who speak these languages feel like they can't trust wikipedia, that's going to be very damaging to their communities and their education relative to the effect it would have on the english-speaking world.
So I encourage you to judge this round by thinking about the effect this would have on people who don't have access to any other encyclopedia if they weren't able to trust wikipedia because of its funding.
For all these reasons, we should not subsidize wikipedia.
Thank you.