We should ban free newspapers.
So in this debate, we're talking about newspapers that are distributed free of charge in places like cities, on public transit.
You probably seen these all over the floor of the subway if you ever take that to work.
So, three arguments: the first is about the waste that these free newspapers produce.
Nobody wants these, right?
We see that people might read them, but then they throw them on the ground and you end up with tremendous amounts of paper waste.
People don't place a high value on something that's free to them, so they're less willing to put in the effort to actually hold on to it or to be sure that it gets to a recycling bin.
I think this is the reason why you often see them left on, you know, the seats of buses or on public transit, or you see them on the ground in public places near where they were being distributed in the first place.
So we're totally fine with banning these papers simply to reduce the amount of paper waste that's being thrown out every day.
We think, ultimately, this is a big harm to the environment and that there's no reason to allow these newspapers to basically carpet city streets when they provide very little public benefit.
Our second argument is that these free papers provide poor information to their readers.
Ask yourself: what kind of quality of journalism can you provide when you rely solely on advertisements and don't charge any sort of subscription fee?
We think that it's very unlikely that you can actually hire qualified journalists or for to run good stories.
So there's two options here.
One is that they either run a bunch of associated press or reuters articles, but those cost money so we don't think that's very likely.
Or two, that they run nonsense, which we see happens all the time.
You end up with tabloids that are just full of lies about celebrities.
And we think that there's very little value to allowing these things to be distributed, that they fill people's heads with nonsense and misinformation, that they're a huge source of fake news which leads people to vote in less than optimal ways, and that, ultimately, they don't provide any benefit to society.
So, basically, they're not just litter, they're also garbage for your brain.
Which leads us to our last argument which is that these papers harm other newspapers.
First of all, we tell you that if people think that they can get a newspaper for free, they're not always tremendously discerning, and they're less likely to read things like local papers that cost money, that would give them legitimate and useful information, when they think that they can get these other newspapers for no cost.
People are very rarely going to place a high premium on getting access to good information.
So if we ban free newspapers, we think it's more likely that people will seek out and consume other newspapers once we remove that option from them.
With this in mind, I think it's clear that the harms these newspapers do by competing on a market with paid, good newspapers is a tremendous detriment to society.
It changes how people vote, how they interact with one another.
It reinforces, oftentimes, harmful views.
So we think that clearly we should ban these free newspapers for that reason as well.
The last argument that we'll make for banning these newspapers is maybe you would say: look, despite all those things, these companies should still have the right to freely distribute their product if they want to.
But we think that, ultimately, the harms of these free newspapers fall disproportionately on communities that can't advocate to get rid of them, that the harms of the litter, of the misinformation, of the lack of access to good newspapers, falls most harshly on low-income, inner-city communities.
This is where these papers are most likely to be distributed.
At that point, we think it's clear that there is a disproportionate harm to a disadvantaged community.
So there is a clear legal precedent, at least in the US, britain and many other countries, for banning something that has a disproportionate impact on a community that has relatively little ability to protect themselves from this harm.
So for these reasons, we should ban free newspapers.
Thank you.