We should adopt direct democracy.
So, basically we're arguing that countries should be governed by direct will of the people rather than by representative democracies.
So we think that, for instance, having people vote on referenda, rather than having legislative bodies pass laws, would be a better way to govern a country.
We're still okay with having an executive branch as well but we think that, in general, countries should seek to devolve power to their people through systems like referenda.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that direct democracy will always reflect public will better than representative democracy.
Representative democracy basically take snapshots of public will during election years.
So people vote, based on certain issues, and then they have a government for in britain, let's say, five years after that.
So even if the situation changes dramatically, for instance, the financial crisis, people don't get to change their government when you have a representative democracy.
Conversely, with a direct democracy, people are free to change their positions as circumstances evolve.
We think that basically, if you get a snapshot every few years in a country like britain, in a country with direct democracy, you could have a snapshot on every single issue and that this would reflect people's will much better.
Democracies must consider this because they ultimately derive their legitimacy from a providing a reflection of the people's will.
So if we provide a better reflection and a more accurate implementation of what people actually want, then we provide a better and more legitimate democracy which is enough reason, in and of itself, to adopt a more direct democracy.
Our second argument is about reduced potential for corruption.
Right now, if you're an oil company, let's say, and you want to pass a law that would make it easier to drill on nature reserves, you can probably get away with bribing a few members of parliament for very small sum and be able to pass your law.
Conversely, if you had to pass a referendum that would have to go to the entire public, we think that there would be: one, much more scrutiny, so that we can determine if you were trying to bribe people, and two, that it would be much more expensive, perhaps prohibitively so, for you to try to bribe people in this way.
So, with that in mind, we think that ultimately it would be more difficult to have corruption in a direct democracy.
We think that this is particularly critical in developing democracies.
While it may be true that corruption levels are low in the US or many western european countries, globally democracy is threatened in an enormous way by corruption.
People don't have faith in government institutions because they think that ultimately, if their government works to serve the super-elite and wealthy corporations rather than themselves, and there's some truth to that, by devolving power to the people, you remove it from the hands of these wealthy corporations that can afford to buy members of parliament.
Our third and final argument is that this gets more types of people involved in politics.
Right now in the US, there are very few black members of congress, even though african americans are about twelve percent of the population.
In the same way, there is much lower a much lower rate of representation of women then there ought to be considering that the population is fifty percent women.
With direct democracy though, the body of people voting on issues would be the same body of people affected.
So, for instance, you would have twelve percent black representation or fifty percent female representation on issues because the entire country would be voting on these referenda.
The other side might say that only certain types of people would go out to vote, but we're okay with defending a world with mandatory voting as well since many countries, like australia or brazil, already have this.
But we tell you that ultimately, because we better empower minority groups or historically disempowered people to participate in politics, that this would actually be a better policy than representative democracy.
For these reasons, we should adopt direct democracy.
Thank you.