Assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
On our side, contrary to what sam has told you, we're going to explain why this is actually something that can be effectively regulated and, also, why it's important to respect individual preferences.
So, first, sam tells you that even people who are terminally ill could never opt in to this because it would limit their own rights and freedom, but I think that this is an absurd argument.
If you're someone who has stage four cancer and your life consist exclusively of suffering in a hospital, what rights are being taken away if you choose to opt in to assisted suicide?
Right?
We're not talking about setting up suicide booths, like in futurama, so anybody who's down on their luck can just walk in and push a button.
We're talking about having a physician have an informed conversation with someone who is already terminally ill and in, frankly, a horrible circumstance about what they want the last few weeks of their life to look like.
The comparative is not someone who would go on to vote and use the right to free speech and all of these other things versus someone who now can't.
The comparative is between someone who chooses to die while they still have some dignity and mental faculties versus someone who chooses to lie in agony for the last few weeks of their life.
So I just think that the comparison that sam gives you has no basis in reality and that it is absolutely possible to regulate this effectively.
We can require consultation with multiple doctors.
We can require that the patient's family be informed.
We can require that you meet with someone from social services or some other similar organization in order to prevent people from being taken advantage of in this way.
So I think that, ultimately, it's possible to regulate this effectively, as they already do in states like washington and countries like the netherlands, and that people aren't meaningfully losing out on anything except for a few weeks of pain and suffering when they opt in, and therefore that there's no reason to ban this simply based on someone's rights.
That seems a little bit absurd.
But even if you did buy out on the fact that people were losing their rights, why should this then be a criminal offense?
If you buy stocks from someone at an unfairly low price, you're limiting their future right to self-actualize, but that's not a criminal offense.
Clearly, you need to be doing actual harm, and it's not clear to me that doing something with someone's consent in this way is an actual harm.
So I think we need to hear more about that from sam.
But secondly, we would tell you that individuals know their own preference better than the government does.
What does this mean and why is it important?
Governments might have lots of information about people, on aggregate.
So the government of massachusetts might know that men who are twenty three years old and who live in boston are more likely to die from lung cancer, so maybe they'll pass some laws to make it harder for me to buy cigarettes.
Not that I smoke, but hypothetically.
But if I know my own preferences and I know that it's worthwhile to me to smoke because of the benefit and the joy that I derive from it, even after doing research, I don't think that the government has actually got more information than I do.
They can have all the information on aggregate but no information about my personal preferences.
So I think that we need to defer to individuals to make their own decisions about what is right and wrong for them, in particular for something that's as serious as how they want to spend the last few weeks of their life.
At the end of the day, we think that people have an equal understanding of death.
No one has ever died before and been able to inform us about it, or purports are controversial, let's say, so I don't think that experts in a government planning office have more knowledge about whether people can opt in to death than anyone else.
So we can probably safely defer to individuals to make their own decision based on their beliefs about death and based on their beliefs about their own quality of life.
For all of these reasons, assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
Thank you.