We should ban alcoholic beverages.
So, by this we mean ban the sale in any given country of things like beer, wine and liquor.
We think that we're only talking about usage for, you know, personal enjoyment, we're not talking about any potential medical usage or religious things like administering christian sacraments.
So, with that in mind, we have two main arguments for why we should ban the sale of alcoholic beverages: the first is about why we think there's a need for the state to intervene to prevent people from buying alcohol.
We think there are many third party harms, many innocent people who are harmed because of others' alcohol use.
Healthcare costs are driven up dramatically by systematic and habitual use of alcohol throughout many countries.
Alcohol is responsible for about four and a half percent of the global cost of healthcare every single year and we tell you that the cost is much higher per capita in certain countries where alcoholism is actually more prevalent.
So, we don't think that everyone should be burdened with higher healthcare costs as society struggles to, like, basically accommodate some people's choice to use alcohol for fun.
We also tell you that drunk drivers pose a huge threat to people in many countries around the world and that even in countries with strong rule of law and relatively safe roads, drunk driving is still a major issue.
We tell you that there is no good solution to this problem other than to end the sale of alcohol and that this is justified because ultimately, people have to drive in order to get where they need to go, in order to work, to go to school, whereas alcohol is simply something that people enjoy using, it's clearly a lower order of concern.
Our last point is that we think that alcohol feeds into many forms of abuse and other antisocial behavior here.
So, we tell you that oftentimes, instances of neglect or child or spousal abuse are linked to people drinking.
Many people become angry when they drink and are otherwise not able to control themselves and act in an appropriate way.
So, we think that banning alcohol would actually reduce spousal abuse and other forms of abuse and make society safer for women and children and generally, everyone.
So, the next reason for state intervention is the gap in information between people who produce alcohol and people who consume it.
So, we tell you that first of all, alcoholism is grossly misrepresented in society.
Alcoholism is a disease and it's probably genetic for many people and we tell you that most people don't understand this, that alcoholism runs in their family and that they can get it even if they try to behave as responsibly as possible.
So, we think that at the point where there's no way to prevent people from being taken advantage of through alcoholism, we ought step in and regulate the sale of alcohol.
Alcohol also causes cancer and many other health impacts and we think that most people are unaware of the fact that they're much more likely to get things like throat or mouth cancer because of drinking than they would if they didn't drink.
So, we think that the state should intervene there.
In addition, alcohol inhibits many types of health care treatment because of many drug interactions and we think that people are not adequately informed of that and never will be because it's not in the interest of the alcohol industry.
So, we think that there's a need for state intervention because of the harms to a third party and also because of the lack of information for consumers.
But next, we think that our second point is about principle consistency.
We already ban other similar substances.
There's no other psychoactive substance that is as easy to access and as widely accepted by society as alcohol, but we don't think that the law should favor one particular cultural choice or social choice over others.
We don't think that it's the place of the law to say that it's acceptable to become intoxicated on alcohol and not on the herbs that have traditionally been used by the native peoples of north america or marijuana or other substances that have been used around the world.
We think that that's effectively saying that one type of lifestyle is better than others even if the outcomes are often the same.
We think that even if there's no way to perfectly enforce the law, principally, it ought be consistent for people of different lifestyles and different cultures, whereas allowing alcohol favors certain cultures over others when you ban the types of intoxicants that are favored by those cultures.
So, we think therefore, that it's clear that principally you ought ban alcohol and also that there is a need for the state to intervene to do so.
Thank you.