We should not ban anonymous posting.
So we're going to argue that websites that allow anonymous posting, like twitter and reddit, should continue to do so, like they do in the status quo, and that it should be at the discretion of website administrators whether or not people are allowed to post anonymously.
Our first point is that anonymous posting allows valuable discourse.
While it's true, as will said, that some people take anonymous posting as an excuse to be vitriolic or hateful, at the same time many people use this for speech that would be restricted in real life that we would like to allow to still happen.
Let me give you an example.
Many fora exist on the internet for young LGBT people to discuss their experience and how they feel about their identity anonymously.
And these fora provide people who might live in a country where it's unsafe to be gay or who might be worried about their family finding out and treating them poorly with an outlet for their feelings and a way to discuss with older, more experienced people how best to go about certain parts of their life, what parts of their experience are normal, and ultimately to be validated in a safe and important way.
So when you take away anonymous posting, suddenly people who are closeted or discriminated against in real life have to be worried about the same sort of repercussions in this circumstance that they would face in any other.
So we think that for this reason alone, it would be sufficient to say that ultimately people ought be able to post anonymously online because it gives people, who don't have a voice otherwise, a unique opportunity to speak their mind without fearing backlash.
But we also think that for people who live in politically repressive countries, such as many arab countries, that this is uniquely valuable.
We saw that during the arab spring, many of the pro-democratic movements were organized on twitter.
Because people could post anonymously, it was very difficult for dictators like gaddafi to go after the people who were posting, which ultimately allow people to organize these movements which couldn't have happened otherwise.
Now you can say, " well, the arab spring didn't end up working out the way we had hoped, " but the point is that allowing people to have that opportunity is still preferable to denying them the ability to organize in the first place.
So we think that this is another unique benefit of anonymous posting that you lose out on if you ban this form of discourse.
Our second point is that banning anonymous posting is completely unenforceable.
No matter what country ultimately does this or even if many countries ban anonymous posting, as long as there is one country in the world where it's legal, people will find a way to have anonymous posts.
And even if somehow you made it so that no one in your country could access anonymous posting websites abroad, people would still find a way to communicate without using their real name.
Whether that means hacking or using false identities of other people or setting up websites on tor and other alternative forms of the internet, people are always going to find a way to post anonymously.
So this makes the law look impotent and foolish when you're not able to enforce the rules that you've set up and ultimately hurts the legitimacy of the law in the eyes of the people, since many people will work around this, in the same way that things like banning drug use and then not being able to enforce the ban make the law look foolish and arbitrary to many citizens.
And our final point is about doxing.
A serious concern in many online communities is that people will release the real identities of anonymous posters.
When you ban anonymous posting, effectively you dox everyone.
Suddenly all of the posts made previously by anonymous users are going to be attached to a name, even if the person made them under the impression that those posts would remain anonymous.
And moreover, anyone who was afraid of being doxed will now be unable to make similar posts in the future, whether they be closeted or politically subversive, because now effectively everyone is doxed.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban anonymous posting.
Thank you.