Patriotism does more good than harm.
So, by this we mean to say that patriotism is, on balance, a good thing for society.
And I want to make it clear by patriotism, what we mean is the love of one's country, not the belief in the inferiority of other countries, which we think is one of the important tenets of nationalism.
So, we're not defending that sort of conception, only the love of one's own country.
So, our first argument, we have two, is about how this empowers oppressed people.
The other side has chosen only to speak about countries like the united states which are very powerful, but these aren't the only countries that have patriotism and have widespread effects of patriotism throughout their society.
We think, for instance, that it is unlikely that india would have become independent from britain if they hadn't had lots of patriots in their country who loved india and wanted to remove british rule so that they could make their country better.
We think that for oppressed peoples, particularly in colonial environments, patriotism is a way to come to understand their relationship to their colonizer and a way to join people together within their country who may have diverse backgrounds in order to unite against an oppressor.
We think that patriotism can be a very powerful motivator in very dangerous times.
So, obviously, resisting the british in india or the french in vietnam or algeria was tremendously dangerous, but because of the love of their country, lots of people were willing to lay down their lives to do so and the people in those countries are probably much better off free today than they were under european domination back then and we think that this likely wouldn't have happened without patriotism.
We think that fundamentally, patriotism is something that no one can take away from you, no foreign occupier can use religion or something else to manipulate you as long as you love your own country.
We think that while you might share a religion or a culture with another country, you'll never share patriotism will always be something that will allow you to resist expansion and domination by a foreign power.
We also think that patriotism has many unifying effects within a country.
We think that particularly in countries, again, like india, which have severe racial, religious and cultural divides, patriotism can be something that binds people together.
So, the united states is a good example of this.
After world war two, when many white GIs served alongside black GIs during the war, there was a certain sense that look, african americans love their country as much as anyone else and they deserve some sort of consideration and this is where the birth of the civil rights movement comes from actually, is from american veterans after world war two, black and white coming together to work towards equal rights for african americans and that led up to the first attempts at civil rights in this country.
So, we see that patriotism is a force which can bring people together over other barriers in society.
We think that without patriotism, you lack a sort of unifying framework to bring together people from different backgrounds in your society because they might be more focused only on their religion or race or culture and ignore what everyone has in common.
We also think similarly, that patriotism increases the amount of buy-in to civil society.
So, by civil society we mean things like elections, courts, the government's legitimacy, etcetera.
We think that when you have more patriotism, people are more likely to agree that things like elections and the courts are fair because they love their country and love it's institutions and we think that therefore, you will see less violence because people will not have violence after elections if they're unhappy with the result and they won't turn to violence outside the courts to solve their problems, they'll engage in civil society and this will make everyone better off because there will be a less violent society.
So, the other team wants you to think that patriotism necessarily excludes criticism, but I think that patriotism actually motivates you to want to better your own country.
If we think of clement attlee, the prime minister of britain right after world war two, obviously he loved his country and he served it during the war, but he also saw that britain could be much better going forward than it had been before the war and that's what he did things like introduce national health and stronger union protections and lots of other things that had been previously resisted.
He saw that although he loved his country, it could be a better version of itself.
So, for these reasons, we think patriotism does more good than harm.