This house would not subsidize distance education.
So by distance education, since rachel didn't really say what we're talking about, we think that we mean things like massive online courses, or purely online education, as opposed to in person education.
And we're also going to assume that this is at that the level of tertiary education, since that's usually where this is applied in western countries.
Most people are guaranteed a seat at a secondary or primary school in a way that they aren't in a tertiary institution.
So that's what we're talking about.
With that in mind we have two main arguments for our side: the first is that distance education leads to inferior outcomes to regular tertiary education.
So recognize that most countries already provide low cost options for tertiary education.
Right?
Whether you go to a polytechnic school in britain or a community college in america or a free college or university in germany, you probably have good options for low cost tertiary education if you live in a highly developed country.
And if you don't live in a highly developed country that we don't think that your government is going to have the funds to provide for this either way.
So why are these outcomes inferior?
First of all we tell you that people simply learn less when they receive less attention from an instructor.
There's effectively no difference between distance education and just reading a textbook on your own.
There's very little added value to the experience.
So we tell you that ultimately people aren't going to be learning beyond the textbook.
They're not going to be internalizing anything more complicated than the basic version of the material presented in a textbook or a power point or something similar.
They're going to miss the nuance that an instructor could add and most importantly they're not going to get the kind of individual feedback that normally makes education worthwhile.
Right?
If you take a course on british history, yes you're going to read the text book or going to learn to dates of all the kings and battles, but what's really going to teach you is when you get personalized feedback on your paper at the end of the term.
Something that most of these online courses can't give, or that they give it a much lower quality than an in person course.
So we just don't think this is worth investing in.
We don't think it's good for the students who take advantage of it and we don't think it's good for the employers who hire these people, because the quality between distance education and in person education is not in any way commensurate.
And it's intellectually dishonest for the other team to say otherwise.
They need to tell you why it's worthwhile even though it's inferior, and I don't think they'll be able to do so.
And our second argument is that this undermines public tertiary education.
Government officials don't care about poor people.
This is true in any liberal democracy.
They do their best to spend as little as the public will accept on social services and to do as little as they can to help those worsed off, since these poor people tend not to vote as often and tend not to donate to political organizations and movements.
So we think that ultimately if a cheaper worse option is available, like distance education, politicians will choose it over a more expensive better option like city colleges or generally access to tertiary education for the public.
They're going to slash funds for local colleges, however whatever form these may take in your country, and ultimately this is going to reduce the ability of low income students to get access to a good tertiary education.
They won't be able to go to a local college and transfer to a university because those local colleges will go away as politicians slash funding and transfer everyone to online courses that don't teach you anything.
Therefore we think this is grossly unfair to the students and that will destroy the systems of education we've spent so much to build.
For all these reasons we should not subsidize distance education.
Thank you.