Surrogacy should not be banned.
We have three arguments for why this is the case.
The first is about government over reach.
We think that there is a two part standard for when the government should intervene to prevent people from taking a certain action.
First, when there is an asymmetry of information and second, when there are third party harms.
So by asymmetry of information we mean when one party who's entering into a contract knows so much more about the outcomes of that contract that they're able to take advantage of the other party.
For instance, companies that produce tobacco have much more information about the harms of smoking than consumers.
So were okay with limiting people's access to tobacco.
We don't see that nasas that is the case with surrogacy though.
Why is this the case?
In order to go through the process of surrogacy both parties have to meet with a physician who represents their own interests.
We think this means that both groups will have expert advice about whether or not surrogacy is right for them.
The person who is going to be a surrogate will be well informed about the potential risks of pregnancy by a doctor, who, because it's a legal for doctors not to give their patients the best advice that they're able to, will have to advise them about the real risks of pregnancy and any potential downsides or drawbacks that could have.
And the people desiring adoption would also have to meet with a doctor, we tell you, in order to go through the surrogacy process and so they similarly would receive expert counseling.
So we don't see that there's an asymmetry of information here.
And of course there are no third party harms to a surrogacy contract because no third party is involved.
You have the adoptees and you have the surrogate.
There's no one else who's going to be affected by this.
The other team might tell you that the state might have to pay for these children if the adoptee chooses not to take them, but that will be a breach of contract and they could be sued and forced to provide for the child's upkeep, so we don't think that that's an actual risk.
So there are no third party harms here.
With this standard not being met, we don't think the government should intervene.
Our second point is that this unfairly limits freedom for the surrogates and desirous parents.
We don't think that surrogates should be arbitrarily prevented from selling their body for money.
We see that people who work in manual labor sell their ability to do physical work all day, everyday to make money.
Why shouldn't a surrogate be allowed to sell their ability to carry a child to term in order to make money?
We think if anything that there is a sexist angle to this.
That whereas most manual labor jobs are done by men, most of this kind of labor will be done by women, I suppose, all of it will be done by women, and so we see that there's a different standard for men selling their bodies versus women selling their bodies for money.
We don't think this ought stand.
You ought allow these people to use their body as they will to maximize bodily autonomy, which has to include allowing people to use their body for money.
And in terms of the parents, we see that other people are allowed to produce a child with their own genetic material.
We don't see why these parents should be uniquely limited from it.
The other team tells you that it would be preferable if they adopted, but it would probably be preferable if everybody adopted rather than having children as long as there are children who need families.
We don't think these people, just because of genetics or illness, should be precluded from having natural born children.
That seems unfair.
It's punishing them for an innate characteristic that they didn't opt into.
Our third and last point is about the black market.
If people really want surrogate children then they're going to find a way to get them.
Maybe that means they'll go to another country like thailand or mexico that has less regulations and they'll get it done there, or maybe they'll sign contracts with people and not have legal enforcement so that neither the surrogate nor the adoptee has any recourse and you're going to see crime emerge around that.
We think that at the end of the day it's always better to regulate so that we can tax this, on the one hand, and also ensure that people are well informed and have access to safe medical care, that people are upholding their contracts and things like that, rather than to have it go underground.
We think that people have likely been using something like surrogate contracts for hundreds of years but that it's preferable to have it be above board than to have it go through a black market.
So because we shouldn't have government overreach, because this policy limits freedom, and because of the risk of a black market, surrogacy should not be banned.
Thank you.