We should abolish the right to silence.
So what we're arguing on our side of the house is that we should be able to require people to provide information when we're conducting a criminal or civil investigation.
This would lead to a few changes from the status quo.
First of all, people wouldn't have the right to refuse to answer questions by remaining silent.
We would be able to help them to answer or punish them if they fail to do so.
And secondly, people would be able to incriminate themselves.
We would be able to ask people questions that would lead to their own incrimination and they would not be able to refuse on legal grounds, as they can right now in many jurisdictions.
In the US, this would lead to large changes to the fifth amendment and, presumably, comparable legal changes in other parts of the world as well.
Before we get into our two arguments, I'd just like to point out that the purpose of an investigation, be it criminal or civil, is fact-finding.
Ultimately, if a court is successful or not is determined by whether it has access to information or jurors or judges to make good decisions.
And what we do by removing this right to silence is increase the amount of information available to judges and jurors.
After all, oftentimes, nobody knows better than the accused what really happened in a given situation.
So we need to have access to their information.
Our first argument is that we're okay with requiring truth even if it's self-incriminating.
We think that, ultimately, because the purpose of a trial or an investigation is to determine what happened in a given instance, that it should be a higher-order concern to find out what that truth is than to let people protect themselves.
It seems absurd that we don't do more to require people to tell us what they're actually responsible for just because it might hurt that person.
A court has no special obligation to the accused as opposed to anyone else except for providing them with access to the outcome of their actions.
In other words, courts need to protect innocent people not guilty ones.
Therefore, we shouldn't take special considerations to prevent people from being asked to incriminate themselves since, if they're guilty, the court ought punish them, and if they aren't, then the court won't.
This seems fairly straightforward.
This idea that people shouldn't have to incriminate themselves underlies the idea of this right to silence.
Even if this was perhaps culturally relevant at some point in the past, because it likely leads to some guilty people going free, and perhaps even worse, to some innocent people going to jail, it should probably be abolished because it has these second-order harms.
And our second argument is that there are more important concerns than just this ability to require a right to silence.
I've already mentioned how this could lead to the wrong people being convicted or the right people not being convicted but I think that aside from that, there are some cases where the public just has a right to this information.
Consider a case, for instance, in which a major oil company had dumped millions of gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico, and the american people needed to know if the oil company had been negligent or if this had just been an act of god.
If people can't be forced to testify, if they're allowed to remain silent and we're not allowed to judge them based on that silence, then it's very difficult to determine what actually happened in the situation.
And that means that people living in the affected area might not get recompense for the damages that they've suffered.
This can really harm thousands or even millions of people potentially.
Similarly, some cases have bearing on national security.
If we were trying, for instance, someone who had leaked military secrets to a foreign power, we would need to know exactly what had been leaked, and millions of people might be at risk if that information weren't available.
But, right now, we wouldn't be able to compel that person to speak because of their right to silence.
We think that even if this right is sometimes useful, ultimately when there are great tradeoffs, it should be abrogated, and therefore it should be a privilege and not a right.
For all these reasons, we should abolish the right to silence.
Thank you.