We should abolish nuclear weapons.
In this debate we're going to argue that countries with nuclear weapons should dismantle them.
Obviously it's unlikely that trump, putin and xi jinping are going to get rid of their vast arsenals, but we think that the world would be a better place if they were to do so.
Three arguments for our side today.
The first is that the nuclear weapons pose too great a risk to our future as a species regardless of how likely they are to be used.
Nuclear weapons, as everyone knows, pose an existential risk to the future of humanity.
In the event of a nuclear war between russia and america or two other states with extremely large nuclear arsenals in the future, all human life could potentially be wiped out.
And this isn't an exaggeration.
Nuclear weapons could create effect called nuclear winter that would ultimately make the entire earth too radioactive for humans to live.
Even if the risk is very, very, very low that this will ever happen, because of mutually assured destruction, the possibility that we could wipe ourselves out as a species is unacceptable.
It would obviously be a better world if people didn't have the ability to make a split second decision that would lead to the death of everyone in the world.
And it really does come down to the judgment of individuals and split second decisions.
For instance, back in the nineteen nineties there was a fault with the russian early warning system for nuclear weapons that made it look like america had launched a handful of nuclear weapons at moscow.
Luckily the commander realized that there's no reason america would launch two nuclear weapons instead of two thousand so he didn't order a counter strike.
Instead he called up to the kremlin or whoever makes these decisions and they figured out what was going on, that this was actually an accident.
But what if he had been a trigger happy idiot?
Everyone in the world could have died.
It's unacceptable to leave the future of humanity up to a handful of officers in militaries.
We think that this risk is too great no matter how unlikely it is that something bad actually happens.
Our second argument is that even if you don't buy all of that, nuclear weapons facilitate a new form of imperialism that is extremely damaging.
Basically the reason this is true is that in order to enter the club of most powerful countries, you have to have nuclear weapons.
Otherwise you don't really pose a threat to any country that does have nuclear weapons.
Because most countries have signed on to the nonproliferation treaty, they are obligated not to develop nuclear weapons.
Otherwise they risk becoming a pariah state like north korea or iran and having their economy destroyed by the rest of the world in order to prevent them from developing nuclear weapons.
This means that the countries that do have these weapons can act with relative impunity.
No one can stop russia from invading crimea, for instance, because they have a huge nuclear arsenal.
So even if the european union wanted to do something about it, the risk would always be too great to their own citizens.
In a world without nuclear weapons, great powers would have to think more carefully before taking military action because they wouldn't be able to act with this impunity.
Hiding behind a shield of atomic bombs.
Our third argument is that there are better uses for nuclear power that are obscured because of nuclear weapons.
People around the world associate nuclear technology with atomic bombs and hiroshima and nagasaki and all that unfairly.
Because of this, people are less willing to adopt nuclear power and less willing to make the world a better place using it.
Nuclear power is the only form of alternative energy that already exists at such a level that could replace fossil fuels entirely.
You could fuel the entire earth with green energy very easily using nuclear power.
But people are reluctant to let this happen for two reasons: in countries that already have the ability to do so, people are afraid of nuclear power because of atom bombs and such, and in other countries the west is afraid to let them develop this technology in case they use it to get nuclear weapons.
So for all of these reasons we argue the world would be a better place if we abolish nuclear weapons.
Thank you.