We should not abolish double jeopardy protections.
We think that these are a critical foundation to a fair legal system and that, particularly in common law countries where this has been the custom for hundreds of years, it ought be continued in the future.
Our first point is that double jeopardy protections limit the imbalance of power between the state and the individual.
So, what happens when the state is allowed to retry a case, even if someone has been found innocent?
Suddenly, they know all the evidence and witnesses that the defense was going to bring.
Recognize that in common law countries, the defense does not have to provide the prosecutor with evidence or witnesses, but the prosecutor does have to provide the defense with evidence and witnesses.
The reason this is true is in order to neutralize the imbalance between the two groups, the burden is on the state to prove that someone is guilty, not on the individual to prove that they are innocent.
But when you have a retrial or a second trial, or whatever you would call this, due to a lack of double jeopardy protections, now the state knows every witness and every piece of evidence that the defense is going to bring.
This lets the state build much stronger cases, which means that they're going to get many more convictions, even if the person's guilt or innocence hasn't actually changed.
So double jeopardy protections are important to preserve one of the only advantages the defense has in a criminal proceedings, and when you get rid of double jeopardy protections, suddenly the prosecutor is even more powerful relative to the accused.
We think that this is unacceptable.
Particularly, we'd like to point out that prosecutors have every incentive to abuse their power if they have access to a lack of double jeopardy protections.
As yaar pointed out, prosecutors want to have the highest conviction rate possible.
This is why only certain cases come to trial and why many people are asked to settle outside of court.
Prosecutors want to improve their own career by having a very high conviction-to-failed-conviction ratio.
But what happens, when you abolish double jeopardy protections, is suddenly the easiest way to ensure that you have lots of convictions is to retry cases that you recently lost or that a predecessor lost.
The reason is that when you have access to all the evidence and witnesses, it's very unlikely that you'll ever lose a case.
It will be almost trivially easy for prosecutors to decide how to go about conducting the case and the trial in such a way that they're guaranteed to win.
So we think that you'll actually see more and more prosecutors focusing on these retrials or secondary trials than focusing on what's really important.
And what we heard from the last speaker about public involvement actually makes this much more likely.
When you have a very public case in which the person is found not guilty, even though the public thinks he or she is guilty, like the casey anthony trial in the united states a few years ago, where a woman was found not guilty of murder even though the public thinks she did it, then people are going to demand a retrial until the prosecutor succeeds.
So we think that, if anything, one's career incentives and public pressure will ensure that innocent people are retried until eventually the prosecutor gets the result that they want.
This makes a mockery of justice and shouldn't be allowed in liberal countries.
Our second argument is that this leads to a lower quality of trial.
The reason this is true is that the incentives change for both the prosecutor and the defense attorney when you no longer have double jeopardy protections.
Suddenly, prosecutors have little incentive to try their hardest in a very difficult case because they know they can do a retrial and be guaranteed a win, whereas defense attorneys now have incentives to withhold evidence, which is their right, unlike the prosecutor, or not to call in witnesses so that they have something up their sleeve for a potential second trial.
So we think this will make it harder for juries to reach an accurate decision in the initial trial, and ultimately waste everyone's time and risk innocent people going to jail, which is unacceptable in a liberal country.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish double jeopardy protections.
Thank you.