We should not ban hate sites.
So in this debate we're talking about websites like storm front that promote neo nazi or white supremacist or otherwise very objectionable content.
We think that these sites should not be shut down as long as they aren't breaking any laws such as copyright violation or providing illegal material.
Three arguments for our side this morning: the first is about the effect that banning these sites would have on the general public.
We think that many people who aren't white supremacist, who aren't neo nazis would likely become more sympathetic to these groups if it looks like they were being persecuted by the government.
In other words, if you went around and banned all of the white supremacist websites in the united states, we think that many people would say: " oh, the government is persecuting these people and liberal elites in washington and new york are deciding what we're allowed to view on the internet, and therefore I'm going to stand up and fight for these people's right to express themselves. "
And in doing so we think that many people would actually become more attracted to neo nazism or other hateful movements, as a result of associating with these people and trying to stand up to so called the men by fighting for their right to spread hate speech.
And ultimately if more people are encouraging these groups and making them feel accepted in public, we think it's more likely that they'll do things like kill innocent people by driving into them in protest, and things like what we saw in charlottesville earlier this year.
So ultimately this could actually lead to more violence and make things worse for the groups that these hate speech organizations are trying to persecute.
We think that right now when the government ignores them, these groups seem irrelevant and unfortunately that's probably the best we can do without stoking the fires for their support.
Our second argument is that we can't effectively limit speech online.
Let me give a good example here - in germany holocaust denial is a crime.
If you deny the holocaust you can face fines, have to go to classes, things like that.
So as a result there are basically no holocaust denial websites based in germany.
But in the united states we have almost absolute freedom of speech, and you can say anything you want.
So there are german language neo nazi websites that deny the holocaust based in the united states.
So the german government can't go after these websites because they're based in america, but they're serving the same content to the same audience, namely german speakers and people who read german, just from a different country.
And we think that even if many countries around the world implemented this policy, it only takes one for these websites to go up.
So as long as tuvalu or fiji continues to allow this content we think it's very likely that it's impossible to ban online material.
Look to the pirate bay, and how when sweden banned it they just moved to the virgin islands.
Ultimately, you can always find some micro state who will take your money in order to put up a website and we think that because of that this will never be effective and you can't actually get rid of this content.
And that makes your government look impotent when you try to ban something and are unable to do so.
So we don't think that's a good option.
And our final point is we think that governments are going to do a poor job defining hate sites.
For instance, the US government right now officially equates neo nazis with the anti fascist groups that are fighting against neo nazis.
Which seems absurd to me that the people who are fighting against nazis are lumped in with them, but that's the official US government policy.
So if the american government were to ban neo nazi websites, based on their current policy they'd likely also ban anti nazi websites, which in many cases are devoted to things like refuting holocaust denial or making sure that people learn about the crimes that these groups are committing.
So we think that will be a huge harm and that governments are ill suited and poor have demonstrated poor judgment to be able to implement this policy effectively.
For all these reasons we should not ban hate sites.
Thank you.