We should subsidize distance education.
So, just to explain what this debate is about, distance education is usually a form of tertiary or university level education in which students are not present directly on a college campus.
So in other words, if you were taking a degree in math, you might go to a campus in a city near you twice a year to take exams, but otherwise you would watch lectures online and submit your problem sets over the internet so that a grader at the university could grade them.
So people would graduate with accredited degrees from respectable universities, the same universities that they might attend now in person, but they would be able to do all of this from a distance.
So with that in mind, we have three arguments for our case today.
The first is about a broader reach.
Necessarily, there's limited space at a given university.
I'm right now on the campus of the university of california at los angeles, and it's a huge university in the middle of an enormous city, one of the largest in the world.
But even so, there are so many people in los angeles who can't attend the school because there just isn't space for millions of people or hundreds of thousands of people to attend any one campus.
Even some of the largest schools in the world, like the university of toronto, still can't serve everyone in their metropolitan area, simply because there are too many people in a large city who need to go to school.
And that's to say nothing of rural people, who don't live near the kind of school that they'd like to attend or any suitable school at all.
So on our side, we can reach more people with less space.
People can sit in their apartment and learn and watch lectures and read, and then only travel to campus to take exams, or maybe even get them proctored closer to home.
For instance, some schools would let you have a librarian or a priest or another respected authority figure proctor your exam, so you don't have to go to the university at all.
So with that in mind, we should subsidize distance education so that people have access to a quality of education, no matter how crowded their local university is or no matter how close they live to a university.
Our second argument is about nontraditional students.
More and more people today change their career at a later age in life.
And if you're, say, a mother of two, you're forty years old, and you're deciding to get your college degree, you probably don't have the time to go to campus, even to take night classes.
Although obviously night classes are great for letting working people go to school, some people will never be able to have that structured block of time or, as I mentioned earlier, they may just not be able to access the university.
So these students, especially older students, are better able to get an education in our world, because they're able to take these classes online whenever it's convenient for them.
And as long as they get the work done, they can be guided at their own pace.
So we think that this is better, especially for adults returning to education, than having a more structured environment would be.
And our last point is that this allows more people to access elite instruction.
There's a popular online computer science class taught by a very well-regarded harvard professor.
So right now, only a few thousand people get to access the benefits of having a harvard professor, presumably one of the best people at teaching in his field.
And if there's a better instructor available at these schools, we, in our world, can offer it to everyone around the country.
So thousands of people can take this harvard online compsci class and learn about computer science from one of the best instructors in the country whereas without distance education, only a handful of harvard undergrads are able to benefit from this.
And when you subsidize distance education, there's more of an incentive for schools to have their star lecturers create these online courses than there is right now.
So in our world, we have a broader reach, we help nontraditional students, and we give everyone access to the best teachers.
For all of these reasons, we should subsidize distance education.
Thank you.