We should not ban the olympic games.
We think that they should be continued to be held in much the same way that they are right now in the status quo.
We have two major arguments for our side.
The first is about the benefit of the olympics in terms of being the acme of human achievement.
We think that ultimately, olympic sport represents some of the best that humanity has to offer.
Why?
If you participate in almost any sport around the world, the olympics offer the highest possible level of competition.
What that means is the olympics bring people together of every race, religion, ideology, and force them to compete on a level playing field together in one particular sport or group of sports.
This means that many of the barriers between people are stripped away.
Many of the social constructs we have about who is good or who is bad are stripped away and we see people in this one very narrow lens in which everyone can compete fairly.
I'll give you an example.
Jesse owens, the black athlete who won lots of gold medals at the berlin olympics in nineteen thirty six, certainly challenged the idea of nazi racial purity.
So we see that the olympics have the potential to set people up to succeed on a level playing field.
It's very difficult for someone to advocate for the supremacy of the white race in that particular instance, when all of the white runners are being beaten by an african american.
And even back here in the united states, although jesse owens was snubbed by franklin roosevelt, many people in the US were forced to sit up and acknowledge that african americans had done something incredible for their country, namely, bringing home gold medals from the olympics.
So we think that the olympics allow people: one, to succeed at a very high level, and two, to change narratives surrounding these groups, to break down ideas of superiority and inferiority.
But what's more, we also think that the olympics are intrinsically valuable, because they show us the highest level of sport.
From an aesthetic perspective, we think that ultimately the olympics allow people to take pleasure from something very pure, the enjoyment of other people's success.
You see that people are willing to root for teams or athletes from various different countries that they've never been to or sometimes even never heard of because they're so moved by the spectacle of these people's performance.
So we think that in this way also, the olympics brings people together because it has this incredible aesthetic experience on the people who watch it.
It's also a tremendous source of national pride.
When countries win the gold medal, they're able to celebrate this as something that their country has done well, and it's not something that ultimately harms anybody.
It's not like being proud of a strong military that exists to hurt people or being proud of colonial institutions that hurt other people.
It's being proud that you're very good at baseball, which we think ultimately is something that everyone can get behind is being better than these other institutions that often inspire national pride.
Our second argument is about the benefits to hosts, and I just want to push back on some of will's ideas.
We think that while the olympics sometimes is run poorly, often it's run very well.
The los angeles olympics back in the eighties, for instance, made the city a lot of money.
The barcelona olympics in the early nineties brought national attention to barcelona, and ultimately helped contribute to its popularity as a tourist destination to this day.
Many people think that barcelona would never have reached the level of popularity it has today with tourists if it hadn't hosted the olympics and had the eyes of the world on their beautiful city.
So ultimately, yes, some countries do a bad job hosting the olympics and it would probably be better if we didn't let those countries continue to host.
But ultimately, every country has a choice about how they want to set up and host the olympics and whether or not it's good for them.
So we think that there are clear benefits to some cities, like LA, like barcelona, and that in the future we should try to award the olympics to those cities rather than to places like rio, that may not be ready to host.
So for all of these reasons, we think that we should not ban the olympics.
Thank you.