Slum tourism does more harm than good.
So by slum tourism, we mean the act where people from a rich area or a rich country go to a poor area or a poor country in order to see the people who live in poverty.
So this might look like americans visiting a favela in brazil, or like europeans visiting the huge shanty towns outside of paris for instance.
So we have three main arguments for why we think this is bad.
First, we think that slum tourism is dehumanizing.
The people who live in the shanty towns and favelas are people too and they deserve to be treated with respect and compassion by their fellow man.
We think that going and treating these people as zoo animals by visiting their homes in order to point and look at them and gawk, is not showing a lot of respect.
These people have to live in this area so they can't just choose to leave if this bothers them, and ultimately we think it's likely that many people will feel like there's no point in speaking up because no one cares what they think, but will be uncomfortable with the idea that they're being gawked at, and seen as so other by other people.
We think that by putting these people on display you deny their humanity because we wouldn't do this to middle income people for instance, and ultimately that it's unacceptable to do all this without the consent of the people who live in these areas, and we think that very rarely is their consent actually sought, or meaningfully given before the slum tourism goes into place.
Secondly, we think that this comodifies poverty.
By that we mean this makes the poverty of favelas or shantytowns a product to sell.
Why is this so problematic?
So, recognize that if there's a demand for poverty, that if there is a body of people in america and europe who want to go on this slum tourism, then there has to be a supply of it to meet that demand.
So what this means is now there is a financial incentive for some large travel companies and governments to keep people in poverty, to maintain shocking displays that wouldn't take place where these people who are visiting would come from.
In other words, now suddenly it's a strategic business decision not to remodel a favela, not to build new housing, not to provide access to public services or to make them insufficient, so that these people will continue visiting.
We think that for instance, governments who draw a lot of income from tourists and know that these tourists are coming because they want to see slums, are unlikely to take action to redevelop those slums, even if it will be economically beneficial in the long term, because most governments think about short term money more than they think about long term growth.
So at the end of the day, when you have slum tourism, you create a link between having tremendous poverty that needs to be replaced and undone, with people coming to visit and spending money along the way.
And ultimately we think that it's unlikely that the people who live in those slums should want to maintain their own living style just so that they can be gawked at.
So we don't think the government's are fulfilling their obligations to those people by maintaining these slums.
Our last point is about a false sense of understanding that people game when they visit these slums.
Realize that when you go to a favela or a shanty town or wherever, on one of these slum tours, that you're not getting a real picture of what the area is like to live in.
For instance you're likely to visit the safest parts, you're likely to do it during the day, and you're going to have tour guides who can keep you away from anything that's really dangerous or bad.
So we think that people will form a rosy view of these impoverished communities.
They won't recognize that there's a lack of access to services and education, or that people don't have a lot of opportunities, or otherwise they will form a more positive view than they should.
Almost nobody who lives in extreme poverty would want these things to continue, but these people who visit might now might think that they're not so bad, and that we don't need to help these people as much as we actually do.
We think that in the long run this will lead to people being less sympathetic and empathetic towards the people who live in these conditions.
So for these reasons, we think some tourism is bad for the people who live in the slums, and for that reason that it does more harm than good.
Thank you.