We should not close the guantanamo bay facility in cuba.
I'm going to argue, first, that there are pragmatic needs for guantanamo to remain open, and then I'll argue why the alternative is worse, and I'll have some rebuttal to rachel's arguments integrated into my speech.
So, first, why is it pragmatically necessary that we keep guantanamo bay open?
We would argue, first of all, that we cannot repatriate the people who live there, right?
Presumably, if we let these people out of guantanamo bay, we're going to have to return them to their home countries.
The reason why is that there's no way to bring these criminals to the united states.
Barack obama tried several years ago, and the governors of states that were meant to receive them all refused to allow them to be interned in their home states.
So there's no way that these people can be imprisoned in the united states proper.
That's why they're being held in cuba right now.
But then we also can't return most of these people to their home countries.
There are two reasons why.
First of all, in some cases, their home countries would probably execute them and treat them very inhumanely in a way that's unacceptable or, alternatively, because their home countries would immediately allow them to continue the activities that led them to being put into guantanamo bay in the first place.
Right?
It wouldn't be very responsible to return people who are going to be beheaded or who are going to be put back in charge of a terrorist cell.
So, ultimately, we just don't think that, pragmatically, there's any real solution to this problem.
I don't think there's anyone who wants guantanamo bay to continue, especially after all of the abuses that happened there in the mid two thousands, but because rachel can't give us a real alternative solution that's pragmatic, I don't think that there's any way that we can actually close guantanamo bay.
Rachel gives you a lot of analysis about how guantanamo bay flies in the face of american and international law but at the end of the day, the law cannot be a substitute for practical solutions to people's problems, right?
Sometimes we can't behave in the way society would like us to because there's no way to actually obey the law.
In this instance, we can see that it would be contrary to the principles of international law, at least, to allow people to be terrorists or to allow people to be brutally murdered.
Secondly, we would argue that the alternatives that do exist are actually much worse.
So we think that given that we would have to close guantanamo bay and we can't return these people to their home countries, we would have to transfer them to other US government sites.
There are many so-called black sites around the world.
The name comes from the fact that these sites are carefully hidden, that the american people don't know about them, that much of the civilian leadership of the US government doesn't know about them, and that no one really knows what happens inside them.
I believe a few years ago, edward snowden revealed the existence of a few of them, including some in poland.
So if you release people, " release " in quotes here, from guantanamo bay, most of them are probably going to end up in sites like this one.
Why is that worse than the status quo?
Well, first of all, we tell you that the treatment these people receive could be much worse in CIA black sites than it would be in guantanamo bay.
First of all, we tell you that guantanamo bay and its officers are subject to the military justice system, so there is some check on their behavior, whereas the CIA has essentially no check when operating abroad, and secondly, because the public scrutiny on guantanamo bay prevents the worst types of abuses from recurring.
We think that if the types of abuse that occurred during the mid two thousands were to happen again that there would be a huge outcry.
So, at the very least, there's a check on those abuses in guantanamo bay that would not exist in these black sites.
So closing guantanamo bay would actually be worse for the people who are interned there, whom rachel seems very keen to help with her proposal to close it.
For all these reasons, we should not close guantanamo bay.
Thank you.