We should cancel the social security tax.
So in the united states everyone who works has roughly ten percent of their income taken aside before they receive their paycheck and contribute it to the social security fund.
And this is a fund that's meant to provide for elderly people after their retirement so that they don't fall upon really hard times.
So basically the amount that you receive when you're elderly is based on the amount that you paid in while you were working, and everyone who receives a paycheck regardless of income pays the same rate.
So two big reasons why we think that we should cancel the social security tax.
The first is that we think that this tax is fundamentally unfair.
So the tax is regressive, because everybody pays the same tax rate we think that it's fundamentally unfair.
The reason why is that the value of a dollar is much greater to someone who is poor than someone who is wealthy.
If you think about the story in the bible about the widow who only had two pennies and she gave one of them to the temple and then jesus said that she was more giving than somebody who had millions and millions of dollars who gave a hundred thousand dollars to the temple because that one penny meant so much to her.
In the same way when you tax someone for social security if someone is making a very limited amount of money, that ten percent could be the difference between paying their rent or being able to buy healthy food versus someone who's very wealthy might be making the difference between a mercedes and a toyota based on the social security tax.
So we think that it's fundamentally unfair because it's not progressive.
Next we think it's unfair because people won't actually received the money that they pay in.
The people who pay in right now are not the ones who are going to be able to collect the money in the future.
Because there are so many people who are about to retire, the baby boomer generation, social security is going to become untenable.
So millions of people who have paid in for their whole lives, there's simply going to be no money left in the system when those individuals retire.
Which basically makes social security seem like a ponzi scheme.
Basically everyone is told if you put in money now you'll have more money when you retire, but that relies on there being more people who are younger and working for the system to continue to function.
And that's simply not the case because population growth in the US has largely stalled off since the baby boom after world war two.
So at that point we think that this is unfair because people have been lied to about what they're actually going to receive when they retire and people are putting in money to a system that will never be able to give them anything in return.
So our second point is that we think that there are much better ways to help the elderly.
On our side we acknowledge that something needs to be done to help elderly people after they retire so that they don't fall on hard times.
But we think that a much better system that would only be possible if you get rid of social security would be to have private investment funds that everyone contributes to with mandatory contributions.
So basically require everyone to take the money they would have put into social security and put it into an account that they can't touch that's then invested on their behalf.
So we think that people could either choose to invest it themselves through something like vanguard which is a company that does this in the united states or perhaps it could be managed through some sort of employer run program.
But either way we think that people would be able to retire with a lot more money than they get out of social security if they invested from a young age.
And some communities in texas are actually already doing this.
They received an opt out from social security and they have these mandatory funds and people are retiring and actually having a much higher standard of living than people who rely on social security.
But we don't think that you can ask people to do both.
No one can really afford to give up twenty percent of their income who isn't already choosing to do so.
So we think that social security is preventing us from accessing new and superior ways to care for the elderly.
And when the policy was implemented back in the 1930s, it's probably the case that people didn't know that this was an option or that it wasn't an option yet.
But times have changed and we think that the way that we care for elderly people should change as well.
So if the other team actually cares about helping the people they claim to help with social security, they would be better off with banning it and replacing it with private investment funds and if you had mandatory contributions everyone would have something to get when they retire.
So for these reasons because we think the tax is unfair, and because there are better ways to help the elderly we should cancel the social security tax.
Thank you.