We should end athletic scholarships.
So in this debate we're talking about the kinds of scholarships common at many division one schools in the united states where students get a full ride in exchange for playing sports at a very high level at oftentimes large wealthy universities.
We're not concerned with partial scholarships offered at smaller schools or were students actually have a choice about playing, we're really talking about those where students are forced to play in order to keep their scholarship.
So with that in mind we have two main points: the first is that this is abusive to the students who receive those scholarships.
As a bit of context, recognize that many of the students receiving these scholarships come from a low income background where they wouldn't normally have the opportunity to attend these universities.
So the other team might tell you it's good that they gain an opportunity, but we think that what's actually happening is that they're being coerced to accept the scholarships whether or not they're a good deal because this is seen as their only ticket out of perhaps a bad neighborhood or a ticket out of poverty.
At that point we don't think people are able to freely opt in or out of these scholarships.
So with that in mind, recognize that the students are being forced to work for free.
Although the other team might say they're being given a free university education, we don't normally let employers pay in kind in the developed world.
They can't give you tickets to spend at the factory store anymore in exchange for work.
Which is basically what it amounts to if you pay someone for their work by giving them some of your product for free.
They don't get any money, they're not allowed to make money off of their likeness and ultimately these universities are making millions of dollars as a result at the expense of these students.
And they can't quit.
If you stop playing football or basketball at one of these universities, then you lose your scholarship and you're completely out of luck.
We'd also like to point out that oftentimes these university athletic systems are used as a free training program by pro sports leagues.
The NBA and the NFL in the united states don't run training leagues.
Instead they recruit college athletes.
So what they do is let colleges train these students and pay for it and make millions of dollars off of them and then the NBA and the NFL get to make millions of dollars off of them without paying for their training.
And if they got hurt in college and aren't able to pay pro, well that means that the league saves that much more money and leave those students with none of the money that they would have made playing in pro leagues.
We think that's the trade off here, is that without these scholarships the pro sports leagues would have to pay to train these students and ultimately they would actually have some money and have some recourse and some opportunity if they got injured.
Our second point is that we think this is bad for the universities that offer the scholarships.
We think that primarily it is a poor use of funds.
The other team might say that a school like university of california berkeley has plenty of money and this doesn't mean anything to them.
But money is fungible.
So any money that a school like berkeley spends on athletics instead of on academics or research is money that's not helping other people.
This money could have been spent on medical research, or perhaps more likely, it could have been spent on scholarships for needy students.
We think that it would be much better to go and recruit athletically talented students from the same areas and same demographics that would normally get athletic scholarships and give the money to them since they're more likely to be able to fulfill the university's primary purpose, namely to provide education to citizens.
And lastly we think that you lose out on qualified students.
You're using a lot of your resources on a handful of basketball, football, baseball players by having these scholarships.
So other students aren't receiving the same resources and might choose to go to other universities.
We think a lot of people probably choose other schools over berkeley because they can't get access to facilities or things that they need and ultimately if the school provided for those students rather than spending a lot of money on athletic scholarships then maybe they would attract better students overall.
So for these reasons we should end athletic scholarships.
Thank you