We should not ban alternative medicine.
So our advocacy on our side of the debate is that we oppose a categorical ban.
We want you to acknowledge that the term alternative medicine encompasses a lot of very different types of alternative treatment.
Some of them might be traditional herbal medicines, some of them like homeopathy are more modern, none of them are proven by evidence but we don't think that's tremendously important for this debate.
And I'd like to point out that in countries like the US or EU countries that these items are already subject to some regulation, they're usually regulated by food regulation agencies.
The FDA in the US, which decides for instance if food is safe for people to eat, also regulates these alternative medicines.
So it's not as though there's no regulation whatsoever and we think it's safe to say that they are safe to consume.
So that said three arguments: one is about homeopathy.
We think that this is probably the most common form of alternative medicine in the united states, in the EU.
So let's talk about what homeopathy actually is, because it's completely harmless.
Basically what they do with homeopathy is they think that some chemical can make you better.
Say lead.
Yeah lead's a poison but what they do is they dilute it in water to the point where it's at one part per trillion and then they sell the water.
So there's effectively no lead in your water, and somehow they believe that magically the property of the lead remains if they distill the water over and over again.
This is obviously not true, but that's what they believe.
So at this point people are wasting their money buying sugar water, but they do that anyway on pepsi we don't see what the unique harm is.
The other team needs to do more than just say people are spending money in a less than optimal way, because people who are ill already buy things that aren't really good for them.
Orange juice doesn't actually make you better if you're sick, it is expensive sugar water.
Basically the same as these homeopathic drugs.
So we don't really see that the harm is so great that these things ought be banned.
Especially because people like them and they make them feel better and we think that government should defer to individual's preferences rather than over regulate.
Our second point is about cultural practice.
Because we think another important group of alternative medicine are traditional customs and traditional medicines.
So for groups like the first nations people in canada or native americans in the united states, for hundreds of years they weren't allowed to practice their traditional religion and use their traditional medicines because it was seen as pagan or unchristian.
And we think that part of the stigma against traditional medicine to this day is an outgrowth of that cultural narrative, which was to say that any medicine that was created by the native peoples of the americas must be bad, much basic must basically be hocus pocus and witchcraft.
So we think that we ought not ban these things because to do so perpetuates this harmful stereotype and also prevents these people from conducting cultural practices that are essential to their culture and have been for hundreds of years.
It perpetuates a continuation of the same types of racist policies that we've seen in the past.
Even if the intent is good the effect is identical to that of racist practice.
So we think that it ought not be put into effect.
Lastly we're going to challenge the notion that there's an opportunity cost to these medicines.
I think that most people are probably taking these alternative medicines because they have a sore throat and a runny nose, not because they have some horrible illness they where they can get better treatment.
Even if the other team wants to get up here and say, you know steve jobs used alternative medicine and he died of cancer.
A lot of people get really good treatment and still die of cancer so we don't think that's sufficient for them to say.
We think that people who are ill still go and see a doctor so they can actually make an informed decision with the help of a professional, and if they decide that they want to take alternative medicine we think that that's their business and that the government shouldn't intervene to prevent them from doing so.
We're also not sure the government can intervene to prevent them from doing so.
We think that people will find access to these medicines inasmuch as many of them are herbal or easy to produce in the home on their own.
So for these reasons we should not ban alternative medicine.
Thank you