We should not abolish standardized tests.
So I want to be clear what we're defending in this debate.
On our side what we have to defend is that some standardized tests can be useful, where as the other side is arguing for no standardized tests.
Even if it's the case that some standardized test in some countries in the world right now in the status quo are harmful that doesn't mean that we should throw out the baby with the bath water and completely get rid of this useful tool for educators.
So three arguments for you.
The first is about common expectations.
When every student knows that they're going to take a certain exam when they finish their secondary education which will be high stakes and determine whether or not they can go on to university, we think that this allows all students to have a sort of common goal and an understanding of what will or will not allow them to get into higher education.
We tell you that students are able to, for instance, prepare using these tests into set goals based on their performance and their practice and also to set reasonable goals about whether or not they can go on to university and what university they can attend.
We think that students can plan, that universities and schools can sponsor after school programs for students to do better, and that ultimately, this allows students to establish benchmarks by which to measure their own improvement over time and also reasonable expectations.
You know if you have students who think that they're going to be able to go to oxford or harvard but don't have the standardized test scores, then this can be a wake up call and if you have students who realize that they're on the edge of being able to go to university than this also gives them some impetus to work harder in school in order to improve.
We think that it's less arbitrary to compare students based on these standardized test scores than based on other metrics.
Something like grade point average probably varies too much from school to school to be useful as a comparative metric, where as something like standardized testing is similar across schools.
The other team is right that some people have an unfair advantage on standardized tests but we have to responses.
One, this is part of life some people always have unfair advantages over others and two, their if this is really a big problem that we can account for this and say look this person comes from a different background so we're willing to look at a lower score for them to be admitted rather than this other person who comes from a more privileged background.
So with that in mind we think these common expectations are fundamentally just because they allow fair comparison between students and also because they allow students to be like honest with themselves.
Our second point is about accountability.
We think that students, teachers, and schools all need to be held accountable.
The government and private citizens spend lots and lots of money on education and we think it's important that we can measure the outcome of that education.
For instance, if you had ten teachers at a school and one class consistently had lower test scores than the other ones, maybe we would be able to identify a bad teacher and get that person either the training that they need or fire them because they're not doing their job.
Standardized tests can be a really powerful way to measure performance in a cold hard way that teachers can't get around.
If you rely on any sort of arbitrary metrics and things like favoritism are more likely to take effect where is using standardized test of voice that sort of bias, but on top of that, it also allows us to see what students need.
If we see that students in town a are worse than students in town b at math, then maybe we can invest more resources in that community and ultimately allocate the resources that we do have more effectively.
Educational success requires that we can gauge the performance of students and teachers and we can't do that without a fair metric which is going to look a lot like a standardized test.
Our last point is about why the intelligent application of standardized tests can solve some problems in status quo.
So recognize that first of all, we can adjust these test based on circumstances.
If there's a particular group that's not doing as well because of some social barrier we can acknowledge that and work around it when we designed the test.
We can also improve test over time.
If we see that white students are doing much better than black students than we can alter the test to be less biased over time and on top of that, well it's probably true that there is a burden on students because of these tests.
We think that first of all, this is good preparation for life where there are lots of burdens on you and two, that this can be a positive impetus to encourage students to work harder.
So for all these reasons we should not abolish standardized tests.
Thanks.