We should not ban whaling.
And I wanna be clear.
On our side of the house we're not advocating for open season on whales, just completely disrespecting the environment.
What we're in favor of is a limited sustainable harvest.
So, for some species of whale, because recognize that whales are not a monolith, for some species of whale, perhaps it's the case that there is no way we can sustainably harvest them because populations are too low.
But for other species of whale particularly some arctic species, we think that it is possible to sustainably harvest at least a few individuals every year, and that we should allow this practice, for a few reasons: the first argument is that we think that this is unfair to first nations peoples.
Recognize that through no fault of the first nations peoples of north america whales are now endangered.
So basically europeans came into northern north america and hunted the whales until the populations were much lower, and they did all this without the consent of the first nations people, who were being oppressed and mistreated by the british and american governments, and now today we see that these same peoples, who have hunted the whales for thousands of years in a sustainable fashion, are being told by the ur, now canadian I suppose, and american governments that they cannot hunt these whales.
We see that this is an essential part of their cultural practice.
That oftentimes there is a strong religious significance or that they need ritual objects which are prepared from whales and that this is seen as a rite of passage for young men in some societies as among the inuit.
So we think that for these people in particular, it is essential to have sustainable small scale whaling and recognize that that's what the first nation peoples want.
They don't want to restore industrial early twentieth century whaling, the way you saw people from nantucket in other parts of the united states doing.
What they want is to be able to harvest a handful of whales every year.
And we think that the trade off of allowing people who have been historically denied access to their own cultural narratives and their own religious beliefs to practice those beliefs in a sustainable, healthy way, is broadly speaking a fair and just thing to do.
Not only that, we think that the governments of america and canada owe it to these people because they've been so badly mistreated in the past.
So we think that this is enough for us to win the round to demonstrate that first nations peoples deserve the right to be allowed to whale in a sustainable limited way.
So, our second point is that we think that this ban is too broad in other ways as well.
We think that there are probably some fringe cases when you should allow people to kill whales and for this reason we think a categorical ban, like the other team has proposed, is unfair.
First of all in terms of scientific research we think that there probably are cases when we need to kill a live whale that the other team would put a big limit on, and on top of that we think that it's important that we not prevent just killing some problematic whales.
If you have a whale whose disrupting a fishing stock or otherwise being a nuisance, we think that it should be okay for people whose livelihood is threatened to, if they've exhausted other options, responsibly remove the whale from the environment.
So the last point in the round is this kind of bizarre claim by the other team that killing whales is murder.
So we think that the reason that it's wrong to kill human beings is, first of all, that they have certain rights as citizens and second of all that they're moral actors.
Now, last time I checked, whales are not citizens of any given country, so they're not subject to protections under that kind of law, but on top of that we tell you that whales don't deserve the same moral consideration as human beings.
Why must this be true?
Human beings deserve moral consideration for a couple of reasons: one, because we have the ability to make moral choices.
Basically if you can behave morally then you deserve equal moral consideration, or two, because it's impossible to determine which humans can and can't make moral considerations.
We know some humans can, so it's safer to assume that all humans can.
Even if say children probably don't make the same kind of moral considerations as adults.
So for these reasons we see that whales don't meet the reasons that we give humans moral consideration for, so it's not murder to kill a whale.
We think at that point we should treat the more like other animals which we kill every day and this is broadly seen to be a normal part of society.
So for these reasons we should not ban whaling.
Thank you.