We should subsidize renewable energy.
By renewable energy, we mean things like solar panels and wind turbines, where the resource that produces the energy is not used up on a human scale unlike, say, oil, where we can use up significant parts of the world's reserve in a human lifetime.
And by subsidize, we mean that governments should offer money to create infrastructure and to encourage the use of these fuels in order to make it profitable for private companies to get involved in this industry of renewable energy.
So we have a few arguments for our side this evening.
The first is about co-opting the interests of large businesses.
Right now, the most powerful enemies of renewable energy are companies like exxon, mobil, shell, and BP.
These are some of the largest companies in the world, and they lobby democratic governments extensively and apply huge amounts of pressure to developing world governments in order to keep us dependent on natural gas and oil so that their profits continue to rise.
However, oil and natural gas have fairly low profit margins.
This is especially true since saudi arabia has driven down the price of oil globally in the last few years, reducing profit margin significantly.
What this means is that if we introduce significant subsidies to make renewable energies more profitable than oil, which would be easier to do now than at any point in the last couple of decades, then these big businesses, like BP and exxon and shell, would shift their interests from oil to renewable energies.
Remember that these are ultimately energy companies, even if right now they deal in oil.
They have the technological expertise and the business acumen to create the infrastructure and the technology and the science that we need to completely switch over to renewable energies.
What we need to do is make it profitable for them to do so so that their own greed ultimately is aligned with the long-term interest of humanity, getting us off of fossil fuels and onto renewable energies.
Our second argument is about the infrastructure that this would create.
These huge businesses that we co-opt obviously have the ability to create capital, but the subsidies would also bring in other companies, smaller businesses who want to build infrastructure.
So we tell you that, first of all, there's now government money available for small companies that want to build solar panels or want to build wind farms, and we see things like this happening already in some parts of the world, like the US state of massachusetts.
But we also see that these big businesses will pour money into buying up these smaller companies and therefore making it much more profitable to set up a business that would create this kind of infrastructure.
So what we think would happen is that you would end up with the united states that, rather than investing in gas and oil pipelines, would be investing in, say, solar panels.
You would have a france that rather than investing more in importing natural gas from russia, would be investing in wind turbines.
We think that ultimately this would lead to countries having, first of all, more energy independence, because renewable energy produced in your own country doesn't require imports, so you don't have to rely on countries like russia or saudi arabia or venezuela for your energy, but secondly that it would create a huge amount of jobs in these countries, both building this infrastructure and also operating it and maintaining it after it's constructed because as we mentioned, it can't be outsourced, it has to be done locally.
So we think that this would be a boon to these countries' economies and that it would improve their infrastructure overall.
So because this aligns the interest of large businesses and ordinary people and because of all the goods this would do for countries that adopted this, we should subsidize renewable energy.
Thank you.