Genetically modified crops bring more good than harm.
So these genetically modified crops are basically strains of familiar plants like corn and wheat which either grow in different conditions, or produce more food, or both, than the traditional crops that we had, say a hundred years ago.
So we have to main points.
The first is that the good that these crops have done in preventing hunger outweighs basically any potential harm.
So think about the differences between the world today and the world a hundred years ago.
Probably the most significant is food security around the globe.
We tell you that wereas things like famines used to be common even in places that are as developed now as eastern europe or parts of china, famine is basically unheard of on a large scale today.
Some countries like north korea might run the risk, but in general, if you're part of the global system then famines just don't really happen anymore.
The reason why this is possible is because so much more food can be produced from relatively small regions then could be produced a hundred years ago, and that change hasn't been made up by fertilizers or by machines alone.
The biggest difference by far has been the actual crops that farmers are planting.
There's one particular strain of rice, for instance, that has been developed, that produces more than double what a normal strand of rice would produce in a given area.
And so if you think about the famines that plagued china in the early to mid twentieth century, those will never happen again because if even one region of china now continues being able to produce rice during a bad year, then the country will not starve.
There are versions of wheat that produce many multi fold as much grain as the traditional varieties of wheat, and we've seen that the introduction of these strains in places like mexico has done a lot to increase food security there.
At the end of the day, it's important that there is food available for export at all times from food producing countries, so that another country with food insecurity can import.
Most of the famines in british india, for instance, were due to a lack of food available for import.
But now that we can produce more food in the same amount of land, it's much more likely that some region will be having a very good year and be able to export food, and this is one of the main reasons why there are fewer famines today than there used to be.
And another small point under this is that we can grow food year round now.
They can develop strains of foods like rice and wheat that grow in the wintertime, even in regions where that normally wouldn't be the case, and because of that, food is available year round.
So we don't have to worry about famine breaking out in january in the northern hemisphere, say because there wasn't enough food produced to get people through the winter.
So breaking that cycle of summer and winter, hunger in the winter, ending the cycle of famines across the globe.
These goods save hundreds of millions of lives, probably billions of lives in the long term, and that good is going to outweigh any harm the other side can tell you.
Our second point, which is kind of marginal compared to the last one, but a good, is how this helps farmers.
So if you're a farmer it's now much easier to produce more food on your land.
What this means is that you can plant less of your land with cereal crops, and more with other types of crops.
This is good for the environment because it means that you don't have to resort to monoculture as often, but it's also good because it means that there's more diversity in the food available to your community.
If you think about a place like some poorer regions of mexico, or some parts of west africa, where most of the food consumed is local, then these people can have a more diverse, healthy diet if farmers don't have to spend use all of their land in order to produce cereal crops.
We think that it's easier to diversify when there are one, more types of crops that will grow on your land, and two, you need less of your land for staple crops.
And also at the end of the day, these crops are less likely to fail or get sick, so they have less risk for farmers.
This means that these farmers, many of whom are not wealthy, even if they own land they're still living year to year based on how good their harvest is, these people now have more security, which means they can afford to send their kids to college, invest in their community, and ultimately, everyone benefits from this.
So because of the hunger prevented, and because of the benefits to farmers, genetically modified crops bring more good than harm.
Thank you.