We should not ban anonymous posting online.
Contrary to what tim tells you we are going to argue first for a right to privacy and second for the effect that this would have in autocratic countries that limit people's freedom of expression.
So first: what is this right to privacy and why is it so important?
We think that one of the most novel things about the internet is that it lets people communicate in large communities completely anonymously.
People have come to expect that they'll have privacy online and be able to express their opinions without being held to the same standards of accountability that they would have speaking in a literal public square.
It's true that this kind of privacy didn't exist a hundred years ago or two hundred years ago but that doesn't mean it isn't valuable, especially to people who have grown up with the expectation of this right to privacy.
We think that as technology has improved and a society's expectations have changed that there is now a public conception that people should have some ability to express themselves anonymously and to be able to exchange ideas anonymously.
This is as I'll explain in just a minute been very important to political changes around the world including the arab spring which probably couldn't have happened if people hadn't been able to anonymously discuss their dissatisfaction with their governments.
So we think that because rights come from convention, that is to say rights exist because people believe in them and in as much as many people millions of people believe in this right to online privacy, that it would be a violation of that right and therefore an injustice to take away peoples' ability to post online.
Tim says that it's important to check free speech when it contrasts with the ability to have a stable and orderly government, but I don't think that's necessarily true.
We'll talk more about this in just a moment but I think that it's important to note that there aren't checks on people's freedom of speech other than actual calls for violence in many liberal countries and that we need to extend those principles of freedom of speech in a public square or in a coffee shop to make it a little more concrete to a discussion on an online forum.
After all freedom of speech doesn't exist in order to protect a certain forum.
The founding fathers in the US didn't say that people were free to express themselves in a marketplace and not in an ale house or something like that.
Rather it's a principle thing that people should be able to express themselves freely and that's what we want to protect.
Our second argument is about the effect that this would have in authoritarian countries.
If you imagine a country like say syria prior to the syrian civil war, people generally speaking weren't free to express themselves in the public square because assad's regime would crackdown on anyone who wanted to resist the baathist party.
The internet really brought in the ability for people in countries like that to discuss politics openly and genuinely with people outside of their family and friends and allowed people to organize the protest that would later become the arab spring in tunisia and then across the arab world.
We think that if you took away anonymous posting, people wouldn't discuss politics online because of the risk of a crackdown and therefore that it would be impossible for people to express their preferences against dictatorial regimes.
We think that similarly in countries like iran or turkey that are quasidemocratic, this has been very important to organizing massive protests.
The huge protest we saw in iran a few years ago after the rigged elections would not have been possible without anonymous online posting to get information out to people.
So I think that if you ban anonymous posting, that places a huge check on democratic forces and more importantly on the will of those people directly in countries where you can't freely express yourself in the public square.
For all of these reasons we should not ban anonymous posting online.
Thank you.