We should ban gambling.
So I think that in this debate we're talking about in countries that allow people a lot of personal freedom, allow things like certain drugs and alcohol and things like that, the kind of countries where gambling is common in the status quo, gambling should be banned uniquely.
So with that in mind we have two main arguments.
The first is about how gambling promotes criminal activity.
So recognize that what gambling does is transfer lots of money in this kind of gray environment that's very difficult to track.
Almost anybody in some precincts is able to set up a gambling institution and make lots of money.
The other team might say we're okay with only allowing regulated casinos and things like that but even these casinos tend to attract organized crime.
Why?
There's no easier way to launder money than to go to a casino and buy chips and then cash in the chips.
Now all the money is clean.
If you've ever seen the godfather part two, they were taking advantage of this.
The idea clearly goes back a long way.
And gambling is connected with organized crime in almost every country in the world.
Places like macau with a lot of gambling also have strong organized crime, los vegas you see this there as well, atlantic city.
We see that gambling invites organized crime into areas where otherwise it might not be a problem.
So we think that it's therefore bad for communities at the end of the day.
The other team might say that gambling brings money into communities so this is a good thing, but if that money is dirty money than we don't think it's going to be better for those communities to have it in the first place.
So with that in mind, our second argument is about addicts.
So recognize that many of the people who spend the most on gambling aren't able to stop themselves from doing it.
Just like you see people get addicted to drugs or alcohol people also get addicted to gambling.
Why is this a good enough reason to ban gambling?
So first of all, gambling only has harmful consequences.
Sure somebody wins the lottery, but almost everybody loses and in the long term effectively nobody makes money off of gambling.
So it's something that people find fun but that's slightly deleterious like smoking for instance, but we think that ultimately it's acceptable to regulate things when people can't choose not to participate and they have harmful consequences and gambling is a great example of this.
People who are gambling addicts can't stop gambling but they continue to experience the harms.
They aren't making a meaningful choice.
We think that at that point the government ought to intervene to protect people who can't help themselves.
The last argument that would like to make is that gambling leads to the deterioration of communities where casinos and other gambling institutions are built.
So this is a separate point about crime because it's an argument about the way that these places develop.
So when you have a city that puts in a casino you draw in lots of tourist and people like that who are spending money which seems good on face, but these people aren't coming to invest in your community.
If you had say a waterfall and people come to see that waterfall and they're also buying coffee, and spending money in the town, and paying bus drivers, and things like that, but when people come to gamble, generally speaking, they go to a casino and they spend all of their money at the casino.
So people who live in the community aren't benefiting.
It's true that it provides some jobs, but it's very different than supporting local businesses and things like that the way normal tourism does and it's difficult to develop a more traditional tourism industry when you have a one that's dependent on gambling.
Nobody wants to go to las vegas, for instance, because they associate it solely with gambling and not with all the other things that that area might have to offer.
So we think the gambling ultimately is harmful for the communities where it goes in.
At that point we think that states have a clear interest to regulate against it because it allows people to be taken advantage of in the form of addicts, its deleterious to communities, and it attracts organized crime to regions where otherwise that wouldn't be a problem.
Therefore we should ban gambling.
Thank you.