We should not abolish intelligence tests.
On our side of the house, we accept many of the things that tim told you.
We completely agree that there is no one measure of intelligence and that intelligence means lots of different things in different circumstances, but we don't think that means that there's no value to intelligence tests.
We're going to explain to you, first, why we need some sort of aptitude test, and second, why the alternatives are probably worse than the intelligence tests we have now.
So, first, why do we need some type of aptitude test?
Well, we have limited resources and funds to spend on the types of things that we use intelligence tests for, like identifying gifted children or choosing people for admission to a certain college or university.
We tell you that given that we have these limited resources, we need some sort of at least quasi-objective way to assign them.
We think that intelligence tests are better than the most obvious alternative, more on that in just a minute, namely individual judgments, but even if intelligence tests don't measure all intelligence, they clearly measure something.
Tim makes a big deal out of the fact that quantitative intelligence isn't the only type of intelligence, but the fact remains that if you're choosing who to admit to a high school for gifted youth to learn engineering, then quantitative intelligence probably isn't the worst thing to measure.
We're not advocating for intelligence tests to be used at every job interview or saying that they're perfect for every situation.
On our side, all we have to do is prove to you that there are some cases when we should keep using intelligence tests, and I think that things like high school admissions are a clear circumstance when they are a good metric.
Right?
We can choose what type of intelligence we want to measure.
If you were hiring someone to do HR, maybe you would give them a test focused more on the ability to recognize social cues and empathy, the kind of social intelligence tim mentioned.
But if you're trying to bring people in, again, to a school for young people to learn math, who are very gifted, then we think that an intelligence test that measures your ability to see patterns and solve puzzles might be an effective tool.
At the end of the day, tim needs to tell you why there's some reason that we can never use intelligence tests.
And I don't think he'll be able to do so because it's clear that, first of all, some sort of test has to be used, and therefore some people are going to be filtered out because they don't do well on this type of test.
You could compare the college admissions test in the united states, the SAT and the ACT, for instance.
They're not intelligence tests per se, but they still are used for the same reason: to weed people out who don't do as well and who don't have as much scholastic aptitude, pardon me, whatever that means.
But our second point is that the alternative is likely worse.
First, we think it's likely that without some sort of quantitative test like an intelligence test, that people who are hiring or people who were doing admissions for a school will just rely on their own personal biases.
They'll probably pick people who they think are well spoken or who just quote unquote seem intelligent.
The problem with that is that then they're going to massively favor people from their own group.
So if you have an admissions board that's made up of mostly like white anglo-saxon protestants in the northeastern US, then they're probably going to be biased against people with different accents, or people who don't come from a culture that values making eye contact in the same way, or people who come from countries where they don't shake hands.
We think that at the end of the day, people are just going to rely on other worse metrics to make their decisions for hiring and admissions.
We think that intelligence tests, while imperfect, still have some things going for them.
They can be given anonymously to reduce bias.
They can be intentionally created to focus on things that aren't racially or culturally determined, like arithmetic or pattern recognition abilities.
So we think, at the end of the day, that intelligence tests are actually better than most of the alternatives we have available to us today.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish them.
Thank you.