Water fluoridation brings more harm than good.
And I wanna be very clear what this round comes down to.
This isn't a debate about the health effects of fluoride, which are obvious, it's a debate about the way that people perceive their water supply and the government when water fluoridation is used as a practice.
Three arguments: the first is that water fluoridation is coercive.
We think that ultimately we leave a lot of health choices up to parents day to day.
We don't see why the choice to give their children fluoride in their drinking water should be one that the government uniquely steps in to make on their behalf.
We think that, if anything, this is the government overstepping its bounds and infringing on the role of parents.
We think it's especially problematic that there's no way for people to opt out.
Even if you don't want to consume fluoride in your water for a personal belief, we think that perhaps some people might have religious or other objections to this, there's no way to escape from it if you consume public water.
So even if there's no harm we still think that people should be free to make their own choices and that they're not able to do so when we fluoridate the public water that everyone relies upon.
And lastly we think that this is undemocratic.
We don't think that people by and large have voted on this issue, it's been decided for them by technocrats and elites who say that it's what's best for them.
Even if it is what's best for them we would rather have people arrive at that conclusion on their own through public debate rather than have it dictated by elites.
Our second argument is about why there are no proven benefits in highly developed countries to water fluoridation.
So, places like britain, france, germany, no proven benefits.
Now, we think that it's totally fair for the other team to say that the state can intervene if they're helping people to solve some sort of serious health problem or otherwise to make people's lives better, particularly children.
The problem with that argument is that it simply doesn't hold for fluoride and I want to be clear why.
First, recognize that the other team has mis-characterized the availability of fluoride in toothpaste.
Basically all toothpaste even store brands are going to have fluoride in this day and age in highly developed and even most middle income countries.
So we tell you that at that point people are already receiving the health benefits of applying fluoride to their teeth.
There's very little marginal benefit to having fluoride in the drinking water if people are already getting it in their toothpaste, and according to groups that the european commission everybody in their countries is basically already brushing their teeth with this toothpaste.
So at that point there's no real benefit to fluoridation so we think that there's no reason for the state to pursue a policy with no benefit.
I'll tell you more about harms in just a minute, but on top of that I'd just like to point out that it's not a bunch of crackpots who are saying that there's no additional benefit to this.
It's groups like the european commission, who we think of a big incentive to make the best decisions for the people who live in the european union and we think that we should respect the results of their findings.
So, our last argument then is about backlash and I think that this is the biggest harm to water fluoridation.
So first of all, we think that water fluoridation breeds anti-scientific sentiment.
People who may not be scientifically well educated and informed about the issue are afraid of science and the government because they think that water fluoridation is in some way a bad thing.
We think that this ultimately leads these people to be generally more critical of science than they would be otherwise.
People who might for instance be willing to accept the government intervening or food additives and things like that, will be less likely to do so if they are inoculated into this world view in which the government is poisoning them with fluoride in the water.
And perhaps more importantly we think that this leads to general resentment of government, which is behaving undemocratically, is dictating a policy that might be overstepping its bounds and that this is likely to lead to resentment of government.
And look, I'll freely acknowledge that this is a marginal amount of people in countries like the united states or in EU countries who are worried about water fluoridation.
But they are people who could be fairly easily brought back into the fold by removing fluoride from water and since there's no real benefits, according to the european commission, to having fluoride in water, we just don't see why you shouldn't do that so that these people can trust their government and their water supply.