We should not abolish no knock warrants.
I think it would be useful before I get into my arguments to explain exactly what's being debated in this round.
We're telling you that a categorical ban of no knock warrants is not a good idea.
The other side is correct in identifying the problem with no knock warrants when they are over used.
But what they haven't done is explain to you why they should never be used.
So we're going to explain to you why getting rid of them entirely would be a mistake even if there is potential for abuse.
We're fine with having more regulation or requiring that there be a higher standard before judges are willing to issue no knock warrants as long as they're still being issued.
So with that in mind, our first argument is about capturing evidence.
As the last speaker told you, people are less able to do things like flush evidence down the toilet or set things on fire to prevent the police from capturing them if there's a no knock warrant.
When people don't have time to react they have less opportunities to prevent the justice system from functioning.
Recognize that trials are dependent on evidence in order to be fair and in order to succeed.
Without evidence, oftentimes trials can devolve into a matter of he said, she said, or it can be impossible to get a conviction at all.
We tell you that there are a few harms to this.
The first is that victims of crimes are less likely to receive justice.
If the perpetrator is able to flush evidence down the toilet or burn it or otherwise keep it away from the trial, then it's much less likely that you'll be able to get a conviction even if the person really did commit the crime.
We tell you that ultimately we have to consider victims rights when we talk about criminal justice because the victim has done nothing wrong and deserves to have their rights upheld as long as we don't actively infringe on the rights of the accused.
The other side is likely to tell you that we are infringing on that person's rights, but at the point where the comparison is between a raid with a knock and a raid without a knock, we just don't think that that person's rights are being meaningfully infringed by no knock warrants.
But next under the idea of capturing evidence, is that you run into the risk of wrongful convictions.
Because if people destroy evidence it's more likely that we're not able to clear someone's name or that we don't have the full picture.
For instance, it's likely that someone might be charged as an accomplice even if they actually did nothing wrong because we lack physical evidence that would have proven their innocence.
So we think that this actually applies to third parties as well as to the person being raided.
Our second argument though, is about minimizing violence.
So when there's a regular warrant and the police knock, a person can either run, which means that you're likely to have conflict between the police and the accused out in public where it can endanger ordinary citizens, or fight back, in which case you're putting everyone's life on the line.
Someone firing a gun, even if they're shooting at the police, can still have it go into the next house or the next apartment.
There are real harms to other people as well who didn't consent into this relationship.
And even for the police we think that although they signed up for this job that they still deserve to be able to operate with relative safety when they know that they are dealing with a violent criminal or organized crime.
So we tell you that ultimately this is important in order to avoid worse violence.
The comparison in this debate is not between the police never entering someone's home without permission and the police entering someone's home without permission.
The comparison is whether the police bang on your door and shout police before they throw in a flash bang, or if they just go right in.
So at that point we tell you that the aggression by the state is the same on either side.
All that changes is the potential risk of someone fighting back.
And ultimately we think that the risk that that person fighting back poses to innocent bystanders is too great in order to allow that to continue.
So for these reasons we should not abolish no knock warrants.
Because they allow for the destruction of evidence and they make the whole process more violent.
Thank you.