We should legalize insider trading.
So, insider trading is basically treating a publicly listed company using information that is not available to the public.
So, for instance, if you were an member of a board of a company, you would have access to insider information, and if you use that to sell stocks of that company at the expense of everyone else, that would be insider trading.
We think this should be legal.
So, first of all, we think that it's going to be very difficult to ever actually prevent insider trading.
People have information that they access subconsciously, without even thinking about it.
It's quite likely that everyone who's ever been on the board of a major publicly held company has some sort of insider knowledge about that industry that isn't available to other people.
So at the point where we still that these people invest, we're allowing some level of insider trading to take place.
What we think is problematic is that, effectively, the law applies to some people and not others.
There are certain people, such as existing members of the board of a company, who aren't allowed to sell their stocks as they wish while other people, like members of the US congress, often are able to get away with this.
We think it would be preferable to carefully regulate insider trading rather than ban it overall.
In that way, we can allow everyone to have the free ability to sell their stocks, using the information that they have, which we think, generally speaking, allows people to pursue their own best interests, but we could also minimize the harms to others.
We could require, for instance, that information be made publicly available if it is used to guide investing decisions.
And in that way, you would allow people to invest as they wish while also mitigating some of the harms of insider information.
But we think, moreover, that this makes it so that the application of the law is less selective.
In other words, if we applied lots of regulations to this, we think there would be enough transparency to actually allow prosecution.
Right now, it's very difficult to prove that someone took advantage of insider trading unless they're exceptionally stupid.
But we think that by carefully regulating this, we would create an incentive for companies and investors to keep careful records to prove that they acted in accordance with the law.
A failure to keep such records might be probable cause to investigate further to see if they were acting in poor faith.
So with this in mind, we think it's clear that regulation is preferable to a ban, and therefore that we should legalize insider trading.
Our second argument is about why we think that this would be good for the economy writ large.
Realize that right now, those who know most about investing in an industry are hamstrung from investing in that industry.
We think that, for instance, if people who were part of the airline industry started investing in a given airline, very likely right now they would get in trouble for trading with insider information.
But the signalling effect that their investment has is that people shouldn't have confidence in that sector of the market.
So we think that by legalizing insider trading, you would boost confidence in the market writ large.
This would likely lead to a more bullish market and economic growth overall.
This is true because a major problem right now in american markets, in particular, is that people are saving rather than investing.
Right now, US corporations have trillions of dollars on hand, on aggregate, and aren't investing that money, which means that it's not going towards developing new companies or allowing for further development.
It's just sitting in banks.
We would prefer to see more investment, and we think that anything that increases confidence in the market is likely to achieve that investment.
We think this will probably lead to higher economic growth and that while this may only be true for the states, it's probably true for other countries as well.
Given that this is true, we think that it's very likely that by legalizing insider trading, you get a sort of rising tide that lifts all boats.
Even if some people accrue more personal wealth as a result of this insider trading, economic growth in the long run will help everybody.
So for these reasons, we should legalize insider trading.
Thank you.