Nationalism does more good than harm.
We have three arguments for our case, but before we get into that we'd just like to point out that we don't have to defend the worst excesses of nationalism.
I think it's intuitively obvious that in some places around the world nationalism is doing bad things.
We think that on balance the nationalism has been a good thing throughout history.
Why?
Our first point is about why this allows a new solidarity.
When you consider this debate you have to think of the alternative world, one where there isn't a widespread sense of nationalism.
And I think that a good example of that would be an early modern europe.
Where people tended to identify more with christendom rather than any particular nation.
What this meant is that people who had a common language or common ethnic background, but didn't have other common interests, didn't see solidarity between themselves.
A good example of this would be czech people.
Czech people lived for hundreds of years under german rule in the middle ages and weren't treated very well by the austrian empire and the holy roman empire.
But because they lacked solidarity with one another on nationalist minds they weren't able to band together to overthrow german rule until well into the modern period.
And when they did it was based on a sense of nationalism that they had developed.
So we think that nationalism allows people to develop these bonds of solidarity and that this is ultimately a good thing.
While it may be true that nationalism creates an identity that excludes some people, it also creates a new commonality between people.
If for instance you lived in different parts of czech republic you might not have felt like you had that much in common before the sense of nationalism developed.
But we tell you that on our side because of nationalism, these people now feel a strong common identity that gives them a sense of belonging and allows them to work together towards common goals.
And we think that these benefits outweigh the harms of nationalism over time.
Our second argument is about decolonization and why nationalism is important there.
If you consider the end of colonialism in countries like india or vietnam you can see that the common factor between successful colonial revolutions and unsuccessful decolonization processes has been a strong national identity.
In places like burkina faso where national identity was relatively weak and there wasn't a strong sense of nationalism, even when colonial powers left it was difficult to unite countries because people were loyal to tribal lines where the you align themselves along sectarian religious divides.
Which means that countries have been unstable in some parts of the world and that they had been prone to civil wars and not had successful democracies.
Conversely, a country like india which is tremendously diverse has been able to forge a strong national identity that binds people together and because of this they had a relatively conflict-free existence.
We've seen that muslims and hindus have been able to live in the same cities and work together despite years of animosity prior to the development of the strong national identity.
And on top of that the primary reason why decolonization took place in india is because due to the strong national identity people organize themselves and work to get the british out.
So we think that at the end of the day, the benefits to colonize people of nationalism greatly outweigh the harms that we've seen in the past.
If you look at this purely in terms of the number of people benefitted, then british colonialism in india killed many more people than almost any phenomenon in history, and we see that because nationalism was a leading factor in the end of that phenomenon that it is, on balance, a good thing.
Our last argument is about why we think nationalism is useful for challenging traditional narratives.
It may seem on the one hand counterintuitive that something is associated with conservatism, as nationalism, which challenge traditional narratives.
But I think that if you look back in history you'll find that this is the case.
In many countries for instance, new religions were forced upon them during colonization, or during the middle ages by more powerful countries.
And we see that these countries lost a part of their national identity.
But ultimately they were able to recover parts of their own beliefs or to adopt new religions as a result of a national identity that give people something to identify with besides religion.
So at the end of the day, we think that these narratives can be restored if that's what people want or altered if people feel that way instead.
So for these three reasons we think that nationalism does more good than harm.
Thank you.