We should further exploit green technology.
So by green technology we basically mean technology that is designed to make it easier for humans to interact with the earth in a positive way and to preserve the earth for birth for future generations.
We think that alternative energy like solar panels might be a good example of this, and on top of that, things like mitigation technology.
Say, technology to scrub harmful particles out of the emissions from cars or power plants, for instance.
So with this in mind, we have three main arguments.
The first is about energy and stability.
We think that because people rely so much on electricity in their day to day lives, the ability to provide energy to them in a clean, effective, and most importantly, reliable fashion is essential to national stability.
In the future, it looks as though we will reach a point when oil will become too expensive to rely upon as we do right now for power generation in many parts of the world, and the same is likely true for coal, although farther away from the present.
We can avert this crisis now if we invest, while we still have cheap fossil fuel energy, in alternatives.
We can better allow nations to become self sufficient, and ultimately we think that the ability to guarantee that citizens have access to reliable energy so that they can work and live as they're accustomed to do so is essential for national stability in the future, and that because of this we will be much better off by further exploiting green technology.
The comparative in this round, of course, isn't just green technology versus no green technology.
I'm sure some will exist on either side of the debate.
But the comparative is attempting to replace these fossil fuels and exploit green energy more than we exploit fossil fuels and similar sources of energy because those aren't sustainable and these are, so relying on fossil fuels will always put stability at risk in the future.
Our second argument is about the duty of current people to future generations.
So recognize that of course, there are harms to burning fossil fuels and other things that we would use to or will be replaced by green technology.
For instance, we see that the earth is growing warmer, or the climate is changing as a result of CO two emissions.
Now, it's probably true that future people are going to have the same types of property rights that current people do, which means that they ought be able to enjoy the property that they own and the common property such as the earth and the seas that they inherit.
But because of a something called feedback loops, they won't be able to do so if we don't take action now.
Even if in the future very advanced technology allows us to remove CO two from the atmosphere, or otherwise improve the quality of the earth and undo past damage, it seems likely that any irreparable damage that is done is going to be get worse and worse and worse the longer we put off trying to solve the problem.
We think that, for instance, the earth getting warmer it gets warmer a little bit every year as more CO two builds up in the atmosphere.
But the problem is not linear, it relies on the total amount of CO two in the atmosphere and as that gets greater and greater and greater every year, building off of past years, ultimately the problem gets much more severe and might not be able to be reversed.
So we think that by investing further in green technology and adopting it wholesale whenever possible, we guarantee the freedom of future generations to enjoy their property and the earth and things around them, and on top of that prevent creating a situation that they will be unable to improve the earth using their technology.
Our last argument is about human potential.
We think that fundamentally, what limits human potential in the future is our energy sources.
People absolutely have the intellectual capacity to continue to advance and grow, but we see that in the past transitions such as the switch from wood to coal have facilitated massive leaps in technology that allowed human beings to engage with nature and the world in a very different way.
If humans are ever going to explore other planets, or the deepest seas, or live on the earth in a completely sustainable way, we think that they will rely on new energy sources to be able to do so.
At this point we better achieve a bright future for humanity by investing further in green technology.
So for these reasons we think that we better reach human potential at its highest.
So for all of these reasons, we should further exploit green technology.
Thank you.