We should end the use of solitary confinement.
On our side of the house we're going to argue for you first, that solitary confinement is torture and therefore that it is illegal not only under international law but also the constitutions of many of the world's developed countries and also that it's unnecessary and actually undermines the goals of the criminal justice system.
So with that in mind, why is solitary confinement torture?
Well I'm not an expert but according to psychologist who are, solitary confinement is psychological torture.
Human beings are social animals and cannot endure being denied human interaction for long periods of time.
I think it's easy for people to rationalize solitary confinement by thinking about times in their life when they may not have interacted with anyone for a few days and I actually have thought about this myself before.
But even if I, a very reserved person, might sometimes go two or three days without seeing anybody, I'm still going out for groceries and speaking to the cashier, I still see other people and most importantly I have the freedom to reach out to someone if I want to.
When you take away not only those interactions that we really take for granted but also the ability to reach out to other people, that is tantamount to torture according to experts.
This is a problem because the constitutions and basic laws of many countries ban torture.
In the US the eighth amendment bans cruel and unusual punishment which is often interpreted to mean torture.
Similarly in countries like britain and germany there are constitutional prohibitions on the use of torture.
So we have a practice that's widely used around the world and a practice that experts think is torture.
The reason why it hasn't been completely banned is probably that the public doesn't understand just how bad this is because it doesn't sound so bad on face.
But we think that given that we have good reason to believe that this is torture, we should defer to banning its use even if the public hasn't come around yet.
We think that public opinion will probably follow in order and that ultimately we shouldn't let the public make really bad decisions like allowing torture anyway in the same reason that we don't let people vote away someone else's freedom.
That's why we have constitutional protections and that's why it's so important that we uphold them.
But our second argument is that this type of torture actually undermines the criminal justice system.
Presumably if you send someone to prison with the intention of releasing them, you want them to be better when they come out than when they go in.
The problem with solitary confinement is that it has extreme affects on people's mental well being.
When you torture people and when you use solitary confinement as torture, people have long lasting mental illness as a result.
This means that they're less likely to be able to hold down a job, to have a healthy relationship with their family and their community, and ultimately they're less likely to reacclimate to society.
We think that at the end of the day, the most important role of prison should be to turn convicts into citizens.
Right?
We don't want people to return to prison it's expensive and it's a waste of their potential.
It cost a lot of money to keep someone in prison.
But people who are mentally ill, people who can't reintegrate into society, are much more likely to be interred in prison for a second time or to continually go back to prison.
So solitary confinement actually creates a cycle whereby people are more likely to go back to prison and this undermines one of the most important purposes of the criminal justice system namely to turn these convicts into good citizens.
So at the end of the day, we think that principally this practice needs to be abolished because it's torture, legally because it's unconstitutional in many countries, and perhaps most importantly because it means these people are more likely to have recidivism and to go back to prison.
For all of these reasons, we should ban solitary confinement.
Thank you.