We should not disband nato.
So we think that nato should continue in roughly its current form into the future.
Maybe it shouldn't continue to expand but it should try to keep its current member states and try to uphold their interests internationally.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that nato ultimately leads to a more peaceful world.
Right now you have lots of countries who aren't very highly militarized, who aren't very concerned about invasion, because they're under united states protection in the form of nato.
If you take away nato many of these countries are going to feel like they know need to increase their own military investment.
So in particular european countries would build up their militaries as a result.
Now while it may be the case that right now it seems silly to think that european countries would ever enter into a conflict, the ability to do so increases the likelihood that it will happen in the future.
As long as these countries are largely demilitarized it's much more difficult for them to enter into a conflict and if they're part of a common alliance system then similarly they are prevented from entering into a conflict by that alliance system.
So ultimately this promotes peace in europe and is one reason why there hasn't been a war since and even if you don't believe that war in europe could ever happen in the future, the fact that so many countries are under the united states nuclear umbrella effectively makes it impossible for any country to attack them because of mutually assured destruction.
So this ultimately makes nuclear war less likely writ large because these countries are members of the nato alliance.
So the world as a whole is more peaceful and everyone is better off as a result of nato.
Our second argument is that russia would be on the defensive relative to western europe whether or not nato existed.
Will correctly points out in his last speech that nato puts russia in a difficult position because they have this very well armed highly militarized alliance on their borders with a very large missile defense and even offensive missile capabilities.
The problem is that this doesn't change even if you get rid of nato because ultimately what happens is the united states and russia will still be diametrically opposed to one another and the european union's interests will still run contrary to russia's interests, so russia will still feel threatened by the same countries.
The only thing that changes is that these countries no longer have a unified command structure and are no longer united which means that it's more likely that they will not moderate one another.
Right now something that both russia and the nato countries recognize is that the interest of any nato country are moderated by the interest of the others.
So conflict is ultimately less likely as a result because of nato and russia would be on the defensive either way but even they are more likely to experience peace as a result of nato's existence.
And our final argument is about what the breakup of nato would actually do.
We think that this would undermine the trust between many small european countries and the united states.
Since world war two or for some countries since the end of the cold war, the united states has guaranteed peace in europe.
If the united states ultimately backs out of nato or if nato is dissolved, then these countries which have come to trust and rely on the US for protection have effectively been betrayed and have no reason to trust the united states in the future to whatever extent they do now.
So we think that that's likely ultimately to undermine the relations between the united states and european countries and also undermine the trust these countries have in a peaceful international system since one of the bedrock parts of that international system is being eroded.
So for all these reasons, we should not disband nato.
Thank you.