We should not disband nasa.
On our side, we're going to argue that, first of all, we actually need a government space program, not just private solutions, as tim tells you, and secondly, that this is very important to the united states' soft power or prestige in the global community.
So, first, why do we need a government space program?
The problem with space_x and all of the other companies that tim tells you about is, first, the size of these programs, and second, their incentives.
So we tell you that, right now, space_x and other similar, smaller companies pale in size compared to nasa or the russian space program.
They simply cannot supply all of the needs of american space exploration.
Yes, nasa might start to subcontract out to these groups to do things like supply the international space station, but that's very different than relying on them to build mars rovers, and explore the solar system, and maintain all of the united states observatories, and run all of the research programs that nasa runs.
Most of what nasa does isn't just send a monthly rocket up to the ISS.
It's things that are behind the scenes or things that take decades to plan, such as mars rovers.
We don't even know if you elon musk's company is going to be around in five years, much less twenty, so there's no way that we can rely on these companies to maintain the long-term interest of the united states in terms of space exploration.
And this is only more important now that space is able to be economically exploited.
We need the US to have a strong space program so that it can maintain its treaty obligations to prevent american companies from exploiting things in space that they're legally not allowed to exploit because of the treaty between the US and russia about the economic exploitation of extrasolar bodies.
But not only that, we think nasa is also important, under this point, because it shares all of its research.
Nasa has an incentive to publish all of its data and to do research that might not ever be profitable.
So nasa does research internally and also contracts out to universities like MIT or berkeley, whereas private companies have no incentive to share their research, because they want to extract all of the profit and not let their competitors have it.
So we think this would do a huge disservice to science as well as to the united states' interests in outer space.
So for all of these reasons, we think that it's clear that we need a government program, because private solutions don't work.
But secondly, our second main argument is that nasa is a huge source of prestige for the united states.
If you ask most people my parents' age, people who were born in the late fifties, early sixties, what the most important memory they have about the united states is, most of them would be negative.
Right?
They'd be things like the iraq war, but one that would really stand out as positive is the moon landing.
We think that the exploration of space has been a huge source of prestige and cultural capital for the united states.
Other countries see the united states as very forward-looking, and very impressive technologically, and very progressive in terms of approving improving technology because, partly, of the space program.
They can see that compared to other countries, even very advanced countries like japan, the US has done so much for space technology and as a result, for our lives on earth, is those technologies are adapted for us today, and that gives them a really positive impression of the united states.
And moreover, the fact that only america and russia have space programs gives those countries a clear prestige boost relative to, say, china or india, that don't have large space programs yet.
So we think it would be a mistake to abolish nasa because it would reduce the standing of the US vis-a-vis russia and also every other country in the world.
For all of these reasons, we should not disband nasa.
Thank you.