We should subsidize public service broadcasters.
So in this debate what we're saying is that governments should set up institutions like the BBC in the UK, or PBS in the united states, which are public broadcasters on radio or television which create programming that meet certain standards for quality and neutrality which are set by the government.
So this might be set up at a local level like PBS is in the united states where every big american city has their own channel, or the national level like the BBC in britain where there is one BBC policy for the entire country.
We're fine with either one.
Three arguments for why we should subsidize these public service broadcasters.
The first is that we think that access to good unbiased information is essential for democracy.
In order for people to participate successfully in democracy they need access to information because their choice of candidate and their support for policies will be informed by what they know about it.
We think that ultimately, private broadcasters are always going to be very biased.
They're owned by certain individuals or companies that have particular political interests.
If you think about the rupert murdoch media empire his channel fox news in the US, or sky news in britain, do a lot to influence people in favor of conservative policies by sometimes misleading people or covering up shortcomings and conservative leaders and unfairly attacking liberal leaders.
We see that there is similar bias by liberal institutions in the US like the new york times, which are owned by very liberal owners as well and want to provoke their own narrative.
We think that a public broadcaster though can be held to much higher standards, that you can require things like neutrality in their publications and that on top of that because the people working there will be civil servants, that they will be forced to be nonpartisan in the same way that employees at say the tax ministry are forced to be nonpartisan in a given country.
Ultimately therefore, public service broadcasters provide people with unbiased information which will let them form their own decisions about which politicians to support and therefore which policies are in their own interest and that this will facilitate a healthier more participatory democracy than private broadcasters alone will.
Our second argument is that we think that these institutions can preserve the culture of a country.
No this may be less important in a very powerful country like the US, which has lots of cultural influence around the world.
But we think that in a country like canada, which is right next door to a much more powerful country, that ultimately there would be very little canadian media if the government didn't take steps to guarantee that it were created.
In other words, if you want to see your country producing domestic television and film we think that you need to subsidize it.
This is important because if you don't have public service broadcasters it's going to be much more difficult for your country to have the same kind of cultural output that other countries have.
We think that if you want to preserve your own culture, to educate people about your history, that public service broadcasters are ultimately the best way to do this.
Our last argument is that public service broadcasters prevent a race to the bottom in terms of the quality of media.
Realize that private companies want to make as much profit as possible, which means that they want to spend very little money on producing content so that they can pocket all of the profits.
This leads to a race to the bottom where every media company has to produce the worst possible quality of content in order to compete with its competitors because if they spend more money they will be less profitable and attract last investment.
You set a floor on this race to the bottom when you have public service broadcasters.
We think that this is true because if there is a base level of quality for the BBC or PBS, it is more difficult for private broadcasters to go far below this, otherwise viewers will just turn to the public service broadcaster for their information.
So on net we get a higher quality a private broadcast as well by having these public broadcasts.
So for these reasons, we should subsidize public service broadcasters.
Thank you.