Urbanization does more good than harm.
I have two arguments for you.
The first is about quality of life, the second is about the environment.
But first I want to paint you a picture: when you land at the kuala lumpur airport in malaysia the airport is kind of out in the jungle aways away from the city and all you can see around the airport is this forest.
You get on a train, it's about a thirty minute train ride to the city, so you're just going through the jungle and then it gradually gives way to a little towns and then that gradually becomes this massive city, it's like new york city in terms of scale.
You know hundred story buildings all that great stuff and it just pops up out of nowhere.
What we're telling you in this debate is that people in malaysia having a city like kuala lumpur to live in as opposed to living in small villages scattered across the country is ultimately better for those people and I think you'll agree with me after these two arguments.
So first about quality of life: people who live in a major city, like kuala lumpur, have much greater access to services than people who live out in the countryside.
If, for instance, you needed to go see a specialty doctor because you had a particular illness that was difficult to treat, if you live out in northern malaysia you just don't have any options.
There's no major doctor or no major hospital that can provide this doctor to you in hundreds of miles.
You're gonna have to travel to the city in order to see someone.
If you live in kuala lumpur, sure you might have to take an hour long bus ride, but ultimately you do have the ability to get to that doctor to get the treatment that you need.
And the ability to even have that bus is also something that's only possible in a city.
Transportation infrastructure is effectively nonexistent out in rural areas.
There are probably roads but if you don't have a car that doesn't really help you.
There aren't a bus coming there isn't a bus coming every ten minutes.
There's no monorail.
All things that you have in a major city.
So people have better access to transportation to get to and from work or anywhere else that they need to go.
But on top of this, people have better social mobility in the city.
Out in the countryside we see that even in developed countries like the US or britain, traditional hierarchies prevail more.
In britain you have, you know, the aristocracy live out in the countryside it's more difficult for people to move up and down and in the US we see that there's less opportunities for people to increase their own personal wealth and social standing out in the country because there are fewer opportunities.
So if you want people to be able to better themselves they can only do that by moving to an urban area.
So urbanization is doing these people tremendous good.
Our second argument is about the environmental impact of cities because cities are much preferable to sprawl.
Kuala lumpur is almost unique in the amount of sprawl it has.
It's very small.
Most cities in the developing world and the developed world go on for miles and miles and miles.
Think of los angeles if you've ever been there, or mexico city.
These are cities that cover hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of miles and ultimately take up an enormous amount of the environment while housing people at relatively low densities compared to a city like new york city or kuala lumpur that's very dense.
It's true.
There aren't a lot of green spaces in new york or in kuala lumpur, but at the same time there is much more native forest in those areas away from the city because it's not being taken up by suburbs and exurbs and other forms of urban sprawl.
And funny enough this all leads to less pollution because one of the driving forces behind pollution of the air is transporting goods from urban to rural areas.
If everyone lives in new york or kuala lumpur than it doesn't take a whole lot of CO_2 to move things from place to place.
You can provide goods to more people more easily with less transportation and things don't have to move as far.
So if you care about reducing emissions you want people to all be centralized in one location which means urbanization.
So ultimately we can see that urbanization is good both for the people who are moving to these cities and also for the environment which means in the long term that we'll see less climate change.
So for these reasons urbanization does more good than harm.
Thank you.