We should abolish intelligence tests.
So intelligence tests, such as an IQ test, are used to determine how intelligent people are according to some arbitrary standard.
We think it would be better if these tests were no longer given to students or to potential employees, as they sometimes are in the status quo.
Our first of three arguments today is that intelligence tests fuel discrimination and discriminatory ideas.
Recognize that there's no such thing as a completely fair intelligence test.
Whatever group makes the test is likely to bias it in their own favor.
For instance, if an intelligence test is written in german, then likely people who are native speakers of german would do better than recent immigrants.
Even if you had a very successful engineer from turkey, living in germany, take the test, it's likely that he or she would score lower than a native german simply because of the bias introduced by language, and that's to say nothing of the enormous cultural biases that could be introduced into these intelligence tests.
As a result, when people extrapolate broad, sweeping conclusions from the results of intelligence tests, they build in those biases.
It used to be common in the united states to argue that african americans were inferior to whites because they weren't as intelligent.
How was this measured?
Using IQ tests that were written exclusively by wealthy white men.
So, poor african americans didn't score very well, partly because of these cultural barriers, partly for other reasons, and this was used to justify jim crow and other racist policies across the united states.
Similarly, in the past, it's been argued that women are less intelligent than men because women's IQ scores tend to be lower, but since the tests are generally written by men, we shouldn't be surprised to see some bias there.
Ultimately, we think that these tests can be used to fuel discrimination, they certainly have in the past, and that for this reason we should ban them, so that people don't draw the wrong conclusions from their scores in the future.
Our second argument is that these are harmful to the people who take them.
There are two outcomes to an intelligence test: one is that you are average or below average, and the other is that you're above average.
Let's talk about the former first.
For people who score an average intelligence or a below-average intelligence, this is likely to harm their self-esteem.
They'll feel like they aren't as smart as their peers, they'll feel worse about their performance in school, and ultimately this loss of self-esteem might make them be a worse employee or a worse student than they would have been if they believed in themselves.
So you can actually sabotage people by undermining them, using these intelligence tests.
And people who do well on them are likely to rest on their laurels.
If people believe that they're already smarter and better than others, then they have less of an incentive to work hard and more of an incentive to try to coast on their smarts, so to speak.
So we think that no matter the outcome, this will either damage people's self-esteem or their motivation and undermine them as workers and students.
We should ban them for that reason as well.
And our third and final point is that intelligence tests are pseudoscience.
Intelligence is a societal construct.
In some societies, you might be considered intelligent if you're very quick to learn new things.
In other societies, you might be considered intelligent if you've used memorization to master lots of facts.
In still other societies, skill at certain talents, such as music or mathematics, might be seen as the greatest indicator of intelligence.
So whatever standard we use is going to be completely arbitrary.
When you try to apply these scientific strategies to this sort of arbitrariness what you get is a pseudoscience that legitimizes people to have incorrect beliefs such as that one group is better than another or that one person is better than another.
We think that when this is disproven, it also undermines people's faith in psychologists or other scientists to administer these tests.
So for all these reasons, we should ban intelligence tests.
Thank you.