We should abolish the two-party system.
So, by the two-party system, we mean something that exists in countries like the US or britain where, although other parties are legally permitted, only two parties ever control the government.
In a country like the US, with a presidential system, this might mean that only two major parties exist, period, and in a country like britain, with the westminster parliamentary system, we think that it might mean that one of two parties always forms government, although sometimes in coalition with minor parties, and the other party always forms the loyal opposition.
We think that the mechanism by which to abolish the two-party system should be to institute a preferential voting system.
What we mean by this is that whereas in britain or the US, whichever candidate wins the majority of the votes in a district goes on to become the member of parliament or the senator.
We would prefer a system in which people rank all of the candidates, and then the candidate that is ranked the most highly on aggregate goes on.
And this would allow people to rank their first, second, third choice so that they wouldn't worry about the greater and lesser evil when they vote, but rather about their actual preferences.
Three arguments for why we should abolish the two-party system.
The first is about maximizing choice.
In a country like britain, you're perfectly free to vote for parties besides the tories or labor, but one of the two is always going to win.
What that means is even if you would prefer to vote for say, a trade union socialist, you will always vote for labor because if you don't, it means that you're throwing your vote away because the tories will be slightly better off because one labor voter hasn't voted for labor.
On our side, you're perfectly free to rank that trade union socialist above the labor party candidate, but then put tory at the bottom of the list and ultimately, you will still end up with a labor member of parliament, but your actual preferences will be reflected, and it's much more likely that you'll actually see a third-party candidate get elected in some districts than what happens right now.
This would mean that representation in parliament would reflect people's opinions more closely, and presumably that lawmaking and decision-making would reflect the will of the people better than it does in the status quo.
Our second argument is that we think that this would better protect minority viewpoints.
So recognize that in many countries, people vote largely along ethnic lines.
In the US, for instance, we see that over ninety percent of african americans vote for the democratic party and large majority of hispanics as well, while predominantly white people vote for the republicans.
We think that if you had a better voting system or multiple parties, then it would be easier for groups to form a party to represent their own interests.
Right now there is no party that uniquely represents the interest of black americans in the house of representatives or the senate, because african americans have to vote for the democrats in order to be sure that the republicans don't win, the lesser evil thinking that I was talking about before.
On our side, we think it's more likely that you would have minority political parties form that would uniquely protect the interest of these groups and that would advocate them for them better than these sort of big-tent parties are able to do.
Because recognize that even if many black people are voting for the democrats, most democratic representatives are still white so they don't really understand what the community needs, whereas on our side, when you would institute this different voting system, you would be more likely to have black people elected to the house of representatives or the senate, and we think that this would hold true for other multicultural democracies as well.
Our last argument is that this would encourage coalition building.
In a country like the UK right now, even though, in theory, they have minority parties, the tories were able to form a government with no input from any other party, which means that the majority of people who didn't vote for the tories have no say in the government's policies.
A minority effectively controls the majority, which is not the purpose of democracy.
Some people in the audience may be groaning because their country has problems with coalitions forming, but we think that at the end of the day, it is always preferable to encourage people to work with those who think differently from themselves rather than to allow one ideological block to control the entire nation.
So for these three reasons, we should abolish the two-party system.
Thank you.