We should not ban racial profiling.
So to be clear we're not telling you that there would be racial profiling in an ideal world, but we think that in the flaunt and complicated world of crime and terror that we live in today, ultimately sometimes racial profiling is necessary.
We would be fine with more regulation around racial profiling but we think that it should remain a tool in the toolbox for police, airport security, soldiers, and other law enforcement officials.
Three points for our side today.
The first is about why from a utilitarian perspective, racial profiling is an ethical thing to do.
Sam tries to tell you somewhat suspiciously in his last speech that it is there's no moral framework under which we could conscience racial profiling but this clearly isn't true because in the united states, in israel, in canada, in many other countries from a utilitarian perspective, there is a lot of justification for racial profiling.
Consider combating organized crime in the united states.
The main organized crime factions right now are drug cartels run by people from mexico.
So while it's unfortunate that there is racial profiling against mexicans because sometimes it hurts ordinary people, the ability to target individuals who are much more likely to be involved in the drug cartels namely people who are from a latin american country or people who appear to be hispanic, allows us to go after these organized crime groups and while it's true that this means that some of the population disproportionately bears the harm of the police state, if this allows us to crackdown on groups like the drug cartels and make it more difficult for them to do business then the benefits to society as a whole greatly outweigh the harms to this one small group because the evil and the harms of the drug cartels greatly outweigh the marginal irritation and inconvenience of a little bit of racial profiling.
But moreover we also tell you that in many countries around the world it's similarly easy to target people who are more likely to commit a certain type of crime for instance in israel young arab men are much more likely to commit a crime than tourists from say sub-saharan africa or tourists from east asia so it makes sense to target these groups as opposed to other groups when we're trying to root out terrorism or prevent the risk of terror attacks and given that there are limited resources to be used it's important that they be allocated in the most efficient way which sometimes means racial profiling when one group is disproportionately likely to commit a crime.
So from this utilitarian perspective, we think that it is the most ethical thing to do to focus on racial profiling when it's more likely to stop crimes.
Our second argument is about public support.
If governments were to stop using racial profiling at airports, at traffic checkpoints, wherever it may be, we think that there would be public outrage about this.
The public generally speaking wants the government to take a harsher stand against terrorism and other threats to public safety and that ultimately means using racial profiling.
So we think that the backlash that would be generated by this would undermine any democratic government that ultimately pass this legislation would be to their losing the next election probably to a party that's more tough on crime.
So if you're worried about the government being too harsh on certain groups of people, it's likely that the government that is elected after this one is not reelected would be even harsher.
And finally we think that racial profiling is one of many tools available.
We aren't saying that you should always preferentially stop hispanic people or arab people in the united states but that sometimes it's necessary and that when the other side categorically bans racial profiling, they prevent its use even in circumstances when it's obvious that we ought be racial profiling for instance, if you had a suspect whose name was hispanic, then it would be ridiculous not to racially profile the people we pulled over while looking for him.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban racial profiling.
Thank you.