Water fluoridation is a practice by which governments put fluoride into the water supply that people drink from in order to prevent cavities and other damaged people's teeth.
So we see that in most countries this is undertaken by local governments at the city level and that it's tremendously pervasive in the united states, europe and other parts of the heavy developed world.
The FDA, the european commission and other groups have all determined that this is a safe practice that has some benefits to people's dental health.
So with that in mind we have two reasons for why we think it brings more good than harm: first it prevents cavities.
This is pretty obvious, I'm sure you're not surprised to hear me say this.
But by preventing cavities, what do you actually do?
You save lots of money for people.
Almost everyone is going to get cavities in their lifetime, it's a simple part of life.
But we think that if you can reduce the number then you save lots of money.
People don't have to go to the dentist and get them filled in and when they do go to the dentist, they spend less money because they don't have cavities.
We also think that this reduces suffering.
For many people these cavities or dental caries can be extremely painful and make it difficult for them to eat or otherwise go about their daily life.
This leads to lost productivity at work or at school and makes it more difficult for people to do the things that they enjoy doing.
So from that perspective we think that government has a clear reason to step in to help.
Both to preserve productivity and to protect people from this pain that nobody wants to go through.
But maybe the most important point is that the damage caused by cavities is often irreversible.
Your dentist can go in and do a little bit of reconstruction work, or smooth out the edges but once there is a hole in your tooth it's never going away.
Eventually if you have enough cavities in one tooth, you'll have to have it removed and have either a crown put over it or have a fake tooth put in.
So we think that by preventing cavities we prevent long term irreversible damage so it's a really good use of our resources for that reason.
Our second argument is that we think that this policy uniquely helps those who are worst off in society.
So when you think about if a policy does more good than harm, you need to think about who benefits and who is hurt.
It might be true that some people are hurt by this policy, because they'd rather not drink water with fluoride in it because of their personal beliefs, but we think those people are likely well educated people who, at the end of the day, can just buy a filter or who can afford bottled water.
We're not really concerned about them.
The people we're concerned about are the people who rely on tap water for their only drinking water and we think that oftentimes these are people who are low income, who don't have a lot of resources.
These people probably don't have dental insurance, in a lot of countries where it's not provided for them by the government the way health insurance is.
So they have no way to do anything about a cavity if they do get one.
So preventive care being provided freely in the form of fluoride in the water is tremendously beneficial to those people.
And these are also individuals who often can't get help.
You can't go to an emergency room if you have a cavity, you need to go to a dentist and these often aren't provided free of charge.
So again we see that we're helping people who don't have any other recourse, who have nowhere else to turn, but who really need something to aleve this pain so that they can keep their job, so that they can be successful and because they deserve to be happy.
So for these reasons we think water fluoridation brings more good than harm, because it prevents cavities and because it helps those in society who are worse off.
Thank you