National service in the united states should be voluntary.
So we think that military enrollment or other forms of public service should be primarily voluntary even if as tim pointed out his last speech this might take the form of things like city year or teach for america rather than purely military service.
So three points for our side.
The first is that this would be an absolutely massive expense.
First I want to talk about the opportunity cost of having every american between the ages of let's say eighteen and twenty one doing some sort of public service.
Right now there are about twenty million americans in that age range.
These people who are right now either working or in college would not be doing so if they were doing some sort of public service.
So you're losing out on millions and millions of workers and all of the productivity that they add to the economy and also you're losing out on time that they would have spent in university training for a much more highly paid position later on.
So effectively, even if these people do later go on to college they're still going to do less work in that higher paid more productive position over the course of their lifetime.
Basically, you are taking people away from very productive positions and having them dig ditches or plant trees or something not very valuable so ultimately, there's a massive opportunity cost to the economy and also paying a salary to twenty million people is not going to be cheap.
New recruits to the united states army make about twenty thousand dollars a year and if you multiply that consider that there are a few hundred thousand new recruits in the US army right now this would be an order of magnitude greater and would cost a huge amount of money for the federal government.
So we just don't think this is worth it from a financial perspective.
Our second argument is that this is a violation of personal freedom.
We don't think that the government should compel people to spend their time in any particular way when there's not some compelling public interest in doing so.
We're okay with having a draft in times of emergency because everyone's freedom is on the line in those times of emergency but we think that ultimately, in ordinary circumstances people should be free to spend their time however they like.
This isn't the soviet union.
We don't tell people what job they have to have or where they have to be at a certain time or when and how to go to school once they're adults.
We leave this up to individuals who know their own circumstances better than anyone else knows them.
This means they have better information to decide what they should do with their lives than the government does and we ought defer to that and we also ought recognize that this is a huge burden for some people not only in terms of finances and time but also emotionally to be told that they're not allowed to control their own destiny for the first two, three years at their adulthood.
We just don't think this is fair to those individuals especially when there's no compelling public interest to trade off against their freedom as there might be in a country like israel or south korea that has pressing security concerns and our final argument is that this won't do anything to help american defense.
The united states already has the second largest military in the world and by far the most powerful.
They're not wanting for just bodies to go and fill out the infantry.
At the end of the day, the united states relies primarily on its highly advanced technology for its defense rather than on having millions and millions of bodies although they have that too.
The united states military could recruit many more people and doesn't.
They actually turn people away from every branch but the marines right now.
So we tell you that if the military doesn't want more people, and if more bodies won't increase our advantage over other countries because we really rely on technology for that, then this doesn't do anything to contribute to our national defense.
So even if you think that defense to some common burden, this doesn't do anything to fill that burden.
For all these reasons, national service in the united states should be voluntary.
Thank you.