We should not ban smoking.
Our argument is quite simple.
We think that people who are over the age of eighteen should be allowed to smoke tobacco.
We think that it's okay for people to limit where smoking is permitted or to limit the sale to minors but that ultimately in the privacy of their own homes, adults ought be able to smoke tobacco.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that people deserve freedom to choose what they do with their own bodies.
Ultimately, we let people do things that are bad for them all the time.
Today I drink a pepsi at lunch.
Ultimately, that sugar is not good for me and might contribute to me one day developing diabetes.
How is this categorically different than if I chose to smoke a cigarette because that might one day give me emphysema.
Ultimately, as long as we allow people to do things like eat unhealthy foods, choose not to go running every morning, buy alcohol, it would be ridiculous for us not to let people choose to smoke.
Individuals in western societies are generally accorded the right to decide what goes into and out of their bodies.
We think that this freedom comes from the idea that people have bodily autonomy.
So not only is it unfair to ban smoking because it punishes some companies and some people who choose to smoke as opposed to drink or engage in other unhealthy activities, but it also violates the individual right to bodily autonomy.
People don't just smoke because they're idiots and they don't understand that there's some risk to this.
They smoke because it's worthwhile to them.
They like the extra energy or the rush that they get from nicotine.
They like the way that it makes them feel.
They'd like smoking as a social activity.
They like smoking as a way to take a break from work.
All of these are completely valid reasons why an adult might consent to smoking.
So we're fine with limiting children from doing this because they can't make good decisions yet but ultimately, adults are able to make these decisions, to weigh the benefits of smoking for them as an individual versus the harms and I'd like to point out that individuals will always be better at assessing the benefits and cons of something in their own life than the government.
The state will always have imperfect and limited information about any individual's life.
So we ought defer to people to make their own decisions about what's good or bad for them in their lives.
These are the reasons why we think it's important people have the freedom to choose whether or not they wish to smoke.
So we think that ultimately it would be unjust for the government to ban smoking.
Or second point is that even if you did ban smoking, ultimately, people wouldn't actually stop.
Why is this true?
So first of all, countries have tried in the past to ban alcohol and it was a complete failure in the US, canada, and I would imagine any other country that has ever tried this.
Ultimately, if it's a cultural norm for people to consume some substance be it alcohol or tobacco and it is, then people are going to find a way to do this for a few reasons.
First of all, if there's a demand that's large enough and there's a huge demand here from cigarette addicts, then someone will find a way to supply it.
If britain banned smoking then people would smuggle in cigarettes from ireland or france and ultimately they'd find a way to get around it.
But what's more, when this is something that's seen as culturally acceptable, it becomes unenforceable.
Just like no young people are calling the police when their friends smoke marijuana, no one is going to turn in their neighbors for smoking an occasional cigarette even if you ban it.
Which means that it'll be impossible for the law to actually be enforced.
All that happens is you let rich people who can afford to buy more expensive illegal cigarettes keep smoking, and you punish poor people arbitrarily.
We don't think that's acceptable and we think that when the culture hasn't changed there's no way that you'll be able to actually enforce this law.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban smoking.
Thank you.