We should not adopt mobile payments.
So we think that essentially the status quo for payment is good enough, and there's no reason to invest in more infrastructure to let people pay by tapping their cell phone or whatever form these mobile payments take.
Our first argument is just that this is insecure.
People's cell phones get stolen all the time.
It's bad enough if you lose your phone or if you lose your wallet, but if you adopt these mobile payments, then anyone who takes your phone has access to all your money.
This means that these people can treat themselves to a shopping spree, not just sell your phone, which I'm sure they'll do afterwards.
So ultimately, this just increases the risk that people will be taken advantage of and lose their money to thieves, and it will actually increase the incentive for thieves to go after people's cell phones even beyond what they already have.
So, any amount of pickpocketing that you already have in your city would probably be greater if your phone was an even more valuable target.
So we don't think that's a good idea.
We think that this would ultimately harm people more than the status quo.
Our second argument is that this would be very expensive to implement.
Think about how many stores or shops in your city would have to change the way that you pay at the cash register in order to be able to take mobile payments.
They would probably need a new machine or an updated machine in order to accept this, and for many businesses, this would present a real obstacle to them because they can't afford a new point of sales machine.
So we think that ultimately adoption would be very slow and would be limited to a handful of large businesses.
Two things would happen: either nobody would use this, because it's not universally available and they can already pay with cash or credit, in which case all of this infrastructure was adopted for nothing, or people would favor businesses that use this, which would harm the small local businesses, which wouldn't be able to afford this update, and ultimately make it harder for them to make money and possibly cause them to close down.
Think about how people in america right now don't like to go to cash-only businesses.
We think that it would be similar for these businesses that can't afford to take mobile payments as well.
But ultimately, people are probably going to continue to pay whoever they pay right now.
In america, most people pay with credit cards.
I was surprised to learn when I went to germany that most people actually pay with cash there still.
But ultimately, there's no reason for people to change.
When you use a credit card, you can get rewards, bonuses, or spend credit, so people have a real incentive to do that, but there's no similar incentive for these mobile payments, other than so-called convenience.
But I don't feel very inconvenienced, when I hand someone a dollar bill or a mastercard, so ultimately I don't think there's any reason for people to adopt this.
So it's a big expense with very few benefits, and we don't think that's a good idea.
And our final argument is that ultimately these payments are inaccessible for many people.
In a world where we do adopt these mobile payments the ways that sam tells you about, ultimately many people are going to have a harder time paying.
We think that ultimately, elderly people or people without smartphones won't be able to take advantage of this.
So if it becomes the most common way to pay, similar to how some kiosk stands now only take a card and not cash, those people will be shut out from using this kind of payment technique.
So that might make it difficult for people to access some services or might make it more inconvenient for everyone else if they go to your business and have to pay cash, while everyone else is prepared to use their mobile payment.
So we think that ultimately this is somewhat unfair to the elderly or to low-income people, who can't afford a cell phone or an iphone, and therefore aren't likely to adopt this technology.
So because this is insecure, because it's going to be quite expensive to implement, and because it excludes certain segments of the population, we should not adopt mobile payments.
Thank you.