We oppose zero-tolerance policies in schools.
So, we would argue that it should be at the discretion of teachers, principals, and other adults in schools how to react to individual instances of someone having a gun, or drugs, or fighting, or otherwise participating in some antisocial behavior in schools.
Rachel really damns her side of the debate in her last speech because she says that she's not going to defend the stupid version of this, but all zero tolerance is fundamentally stupid, because at the end of the day, it removes any room for nuance or fairness, it encourages the school-to-prison pipeline, and it's fundamentally unnecessary.
So there's no smart version of this policy to defend.
Our first argument is about nuance and fairness.
Let's imagine a scenario when zero tolerance might commonly be applied: fighting, because many more students are involved in fighting every year than are involved in drugs, and there are vanishingly few guns in schools, despite what the news would tell you.
So this is really the most serious implication of zero tolerance, is how it affects students who are fighting.
So let's imagine we have student " a " and " b ", and student " a " is bullying student " b " and hits them, and student " b " defends themselves or fights back in any way.
In under a zero-tolerance policy, both students get suspended.
So even if student " b " was defending themselves and is being bullied and is a victim, and even if all of the teachers and other students and authority figures know this, in a zero-tolerance school, you're going to suspend both of them and punish both of them, and they both get that black mark on their record.
And this happens all the time across the country.
I think that if you talk to people who went to public schools in america, everyone has some story like this about someone they know who was attacked and defended themselves and was punished in the exact same way as the person who attacked them.
Zero-tolerance policies have no nuance, and even if teachers know that the right thing to do is to punish one pupil rather than the other, they're not able to do so when you have these policies.
So we think that they are completely unfair in the instance in which they're most likely to be applied and that even for things that seem more cut and dry like drugs or guns, we think it would always be better to let teachers use circumstances and their own understanding of the students to make a decision rather than have everything be resolved by some legislator, who probably doesn't know any twelve-year-olds, much less the ones involved.
Next, I want to talk about the school-to-prison pipeline.
So, a commonly discussed problem in american schools is that in low-income areas, students are treated like criminals and ultimately grow up to become criminals because of this treatment.
When you have a policy that oftentimes involves police officers for every minor offense, students are part of the system of the criminal justice.
We see that, for instance, students become used to engaging with the police in a negative way, become used to committing crimes and expecting that they'll be punished or not punished in an arbitrary way, and ultimately are much more likely to commit crimes.
We think that if you got rid of zero-tolerance policies, that it's much less likely that students would have as much engagement with the police and that as many students would be forced to participate in the school-to-prison pipeline.
And our final argument is that these policies are unnecessary.
Schools that don't have zero-tolerance policies don't see an epidemic of students bringing drugs to school or drug dealing or fighting, so we don't think that these policies actually do anything.
If these policies actually made students safer or kept drugs out of the schools, then we think there might be a case for them.
But as it is, the areas, like chicago, that are most likely to use these policies, oftentimes have a greater problem with drugs or violence than other cities.
So we think that there's no clear link between implementing these policies and actually making students' lives better, so there's no reason to implement them.
For all these reasons, we oppose zero-tolerance policies.
Thank you.