We should ban genetically modified crops.
Now, I want to be very clear.
What we're talking about in these debate are relatively recent genetically modified crops, where companies like monsanto have modified their genes and have patented or copyrighted certain genetic combinations.
We're not talking about the older sense of genetic modification, wherein people would for instance breed a better banana.
We're fine with that sort of thing.
What we're opposed to is the contemporary idea of genetically modifying plants in such a way that you can patent and trademark particular instances of that plant or of that living creature.
Our first argument is that there is a lack of information on the long term risk of this type of gene editing.
We tell you that ultimately because we can't predict the fallout of editing individual genes in a living creature over the next few dozen years, that ultimately there's too great a risk to society to allow this to go on willy nilly.
Consider that if, for instance, we are unknowingly editing some sort of weakness into all of our grain, and then we plant it all across the earth, that ultimately we run the risk of famine in the future.
Now this may not seem likely, but ultimately we have no way to assess how likely this risk is because no one's really been able to assess the effects of genetic engineering in the long term.
We have lots of studies and assurances that this is safe, but most of them are funded by companies like monsanto that stand to benefit directly from these processes actually being legalized and encouraged.
So ultimately we think that it's important to be prudent here with something like our food security.
Traditional food, or traditionally genetically modified foods, continue to supply more then enough food to feed everyone in the world.
Remember that scarcity is a problem of poor governance and not of food production.
Enough food rots every year to more than feet all the people going hungry.
So we think that ultimately we should be prudent with our genetic editing and focus on distributing food more efficiently, so that people don't go hungry.
Our second argument is that genetically modified crops lead to a lack of consumer choice.
What we mean by this is that people don't really consent into consuming genetically modified crops.
As I said before, the long term health risks of consuming these crops are unknown and much of the research surrounding them has been funded by the same companies that stand to benefit from them.
With that in mind, we think it's problematic that people have very little way to know what, especially refined products contain genetically modified crops.
People ultimately aren't able to make an intelligent decision about what they want to consume.
And we think that because there is this lack of information for consumers, the state needs to intervene until some scheme has come up with which allows people to -fully consent to consuming these types of food.
So with that in mind I think it's clear that we should ban these crops until people are able to consent to consuming them in a meaningful way.
Our final argument is about limiting corporate control of the food supply.
If everyone in the US starts planting grains which are trademarked by monsanto, suddenly this one corporation has unprecedented power over the global food supply.
We think that ultimately we need to avoid this level of corporate control, because it poses a threat to providing for everyone in need.
If a corporation decides that they want to, for instance, raise the price of their seed, then everyone in the world would have to pay higher prices for food.
We think this is unacceptable.
And what's more because these genetic edits are trademarked, you can't just go somewhere else and by a different type of seed the way you would otherwise.
You're locked into using it.
I remember reading about one instance where a farmer was sued because even though he didn't plant the corn that was genetically modified, some of it blew into his fields from the wind and grew there and monsanto was able to sue him for letting that corn and grow with the rest of his crop.
We think that this type of corporate control is out of control, and that until further regulation comes into play, we should ban these crops.
So for all these reasons we should ban genetically modified crops.
Thank you.