We should not abandon the insanity defense.
We think that on our side, what we have to defend is not a world where there is no punishment for people who are mentally insane or mentally disabled who may commit a crime, but we should support a world which allows the use of the insanity defense so that we can better allocate resources to the guilty person after they've actually been convicted.
So, on our side, we're not saying never punish people simply because they have an insanity defense and you'll see that in many jurisdictions, these people do face punishment, but what we are saying is that they do deserve different consideration than people who are fully in their right mind at the time when they commit a crime.
So, we have two points of substantive material and then a point of rebuttal: our first point is that intent matters under the law.
You can see that in most jurisdictions, there are different degrees of murder and manslaughter based on the individual's intent at the point when the time is committed.
So, we see that already the law takes this into account.
And certainly it's true that mental illness limits one's ability to freely make choices and decisions.
We see that this is why some people aren't allowed to enter into contracts or aren't allowed to represent themselves because they're not well mentally.
So, we think that at that point, the law ought recognize that some people have less freedom than others and in the same way that you might charge someone with negligence or manslaughter, rather than with murder because they had less freedom over the action that occurred, we think that consideration ought be given to people who are mentally ill as well.
And aside from that, we also think that because one of the main purposes of a trial is to ascertain the facts of a case so that the jury can make an informed decision, that we need to account for all factors in order to learn the truth and certainly the mental health of the accused is going to be an important factor in determining the truth of what actually occurred in a given instance.
So, our second argument is a sort of tool in the toolbox argument.
We think that it is better to have more options to use when we have trials because no two crimes are exactly the same.
So, we would prefer to have more tools to use to deal with different crimes in different scenarios.
We think that first of all, we don't have to defend willy-nilly using this sort of insanity defense all over the place.
We can limit its use if it's being abused in the status quo, although I don't think it is because this is actually quite rare.
We can apply it very strictly and have certain standards when it may be applied and others when it may not, perhaps if you want to limit it to certain crimes and not to other crimes, you could do that.
But we think that at the same time, it would probably just be enough to do what many countries do right now in the status quo and to say look, we had a doctor come in and that person believes that this person was out of their mind so we can have this type of defense.
We think that what's important here though most of all is that if the insanity defense is ever a useful tool to ascertaining the guilt or innocence of the accused, then we shouldn't abandon it.
Let us not lose sight of the fact that the most important consideration in a trial in liberal countries is to protect innocent people from being punished for something that they did not do.
We see that there's sort of a general principle that it's better for ten guilty people to go free than for one innocent person to go to prison.
This is codified into law in some countries like the united states and is a deeply held principle around the world.
So, we think that at the point where many people might be innocent because of their mental state that we shouldn't risk sending those people to jail just to make some sort of abstract point about whether or not the insanity defense is a good thing.
So, a brief point of rebuttal regarding the purpose of criminal justice: so, the last speaker talked to you about things like deterrence and preventing future crime, but we can still punish people or rehabilitate, so, society is just as safe on our side as it is on the other side.
Furthermore, we tell you victims have no right to absolute recourse.
Criminal cases in the united states and many other countries are the government versus the accused, not the victim versus the accused, so, we ought do what's in the best interest of the accused primarily because they might be innocent and then the government secondarily because they're the ones bringing the trial.
We also doubt that this increases crime rates because it's so rare, so we don't think that argument is going to hold up.
So, for these reasons, we should not abandon the insanity defense.
Thank you.