We should not legalize sex selection.
In this speech, I'm going to explain why, first of all, this would lead to a an imbalance in society that would be very damaging and, secondly, about why this would lead to more bias against women.
I'm also going to respond to some of sam's arguments as I move along.
This rebuttal will be integrated into my speech.
So, with that in mind, our first contention is that the sex imbalance that this would create would be bad for society.
Why would this lead to a sex imbalance?
We can see that, in many societies, people place a high premium on having sons relative to daughters.
This is why some countries, like india, have had to ban sex selection, which presumably is what inspired this debate.
In those countries, for cultural or sometimes pragmatic reasons, people want to have sons and see daughters as a liability.
For instance, if you have to provide a dowry for a daughter and you receive a dowry for a son, there's a clear economic incentive behind wanting sons rather than daughters.
So we think that, ultimately, if sex selection were legalized, in many countries, such as india, where this is the case, that there would be a huge imbalance in favor of boys as opposed to girls being born every year.
Why is this a problem?
We tell you that, first of all, societies where there is an excess of young men who don't have a lot of opportunity, such as many poor countries and many countries with a large gender imbalance, tend to suffer from more violence.
Why is this the case?
If young men are getting jobs and getting married and starting families, then they're probably happy with their system of government and the way things are going or, at least, complacent.
If young men don't have jobs and don't have families, then they have much less to lose and are much more likely to join revolutionary movements.
So if you look at the young men who joined the arab spring revolutions, for instance, most of them were unmarried men without a lot of opportunity.
We can't guarantee that people will have jobs in the future but we can, by ensuring that there is an equal number of boys and girls being born every year, try to minimize the number of young men who are disengaged with the rest of the world because they can't marry and have a family, the way society tells them that they should.
So you can see that rather than an issue of individual freedom, as sam portrays this, this is an issue of what's good for society at a macro level.
Many individuals will simply have worse lives as a result of this sex selection, and it can lead to violence and imbalances that threaten the stability of the state, so I think it's clear that there is a reason for the government to ban this practice and that this is a just reason to limit the individual choice of parents.
After all, we limit people's choice all the time when those choices affect third parties.
And our second argument is about how this leads to even more bias against women.
We think that one of the biggest checks on people's hatred for women in the status quo, especially men's hatred for women in the status quo, is simply the fact that fifty percent or slightly more of all people are women.
We think that if women were to become a visible minority that this would only intensify the anti-female bias that we see among some men.
And, in particular, if you have large groups of young men who cannot marry for the demographic reasons that I described earlier, I think many of those men will resent women and be much more likely to commit sexual assault or other violence against women as a result.
So this can actually lead to a society that is more hostile towards women at the same time that fewer women are being born, which will then entrench the bias against having daughters and lead this problem to spiral out of control in a sort of feedback loop.
So because this is bad for society and because it will entrench the sentiment against women in society, we would argue that you should not legalize sex selection.
Thank you.