We should not limit the use of birth control for people under eighteen as rachel tells you.
On our side we're going to explain to you why this is a violation of individual choice, why minors in particular need to have their access to birth control protected, and lastly why there's a public interest in making birth control available to women under the age of eighteen.
So first: why do we care about individual choice?
I'd like to begin by pointing out here that different people have different capacities at different ages.
There has to be some cutoff for adulthood so we've chosen eighteen as when people are able to vote and join the military and things like that, but the fact remains that some seventeen year olds are more mature than some eighteen year olds.
We think at the end of the day that given that we acknowledge a principle in western society that people should be able to make their own decisions, that it's unfair to discriminate against people who are under the age of eighteen as unable to know their own preferences and make decisions based on them.
We're fine saying on our side that there should be some sort of consultation.
We would still require a prescription for types of birth control that require a prescription in the status quo, but we think that at the end of the day a sixteen year old is still able to know their own preferences.
And if they know that they're having unprotected sex or if they know that they don't want to have their period, we think that they have no less ability to know what they want than an eighteen year old.
We think therefore that this is arbitrarily limiting this principle of individual choice that underlines the ideas of liberal democracy.
Therefore we don't think we should limit birth control.
We think that we should make sure that young people are educated and are talking to a doctor when they make decisions about their health, but frankly we do the same thing for eighteen and nineteen year olds.
So I think that having this bright line that rachel's established at age eighteen is unreasonable.
Our second argument is that minors in particular need access to birth control because they have fewer options that they can make about their own health and well being.
The first thing I'd like to point out here is that it's unreasonable to assume that people under eighteen don't or shouldn't have sex.
About half of all american teens over the age of seventeen have had sex.
What that tells us is that millions of teenagers in the united states are having sex before they turn eighteen and before they finish high school.
So it would be unrealistic to assume that this would change since even before birth control was invented there was probably still a similar statistic.
We think that because minors aren't able to access abortion and also generally aren't going to be able to raise these children successfully that they just have many fewer options if they should accidentally get pregnant.
We think therefore that it's especially important to help minors avoid unwanted pregnancies, in particular since an unwanted pregnancy at a young age can prevent people from finishing their education and therefore from getting a good job later in life which really can undermine the whole trajectory of their career.
And our final argument is that there's a clear public interest in preventing teen pregnancy.
Teen pregnancies tend to lead to babies being put up for adoption or into foster care or to people being taken out of the work force or going into the workforce at a much lower level than they would otherwise.
In addition many teen pregnancies have complications compared to pregnancies at a later age.
So we can see that there's a compelling public interest in letting young women avoid unwanted pregnancies and as a result clearly we need to make birth control available.
You can't stop people from having sex so you need to facilitate their ability to do so responsibly.
And part of that means letting young women choose to take birth control even if they have religious parents who won't approve it or even if they're in a community that doesn't want young people to have sex.
For all of these reasons we should not limit birth control to women over age eighteen.
Thank you.