We should disband amnesty international.
By this we mean that britain or the organization as headquartered and other countries as well should remove their charter as a charity and stop allowing donations to the group.
We have a few reasons why we would disband amnesty international.
The first is that we think that if you care about helping the type of people that amnesty international claims to want to help, such as refugees or victims of state violence, that the group actually makes everything worse by the advocacy that they take.
The reason why is that there's a finite amount of political will for helping people who are the victims of these types of crimes.
In other words, there's a certain amount of people in countries like britain who really care about helping international victims of torture and similar abuses.
But when you have a group like amnesty international which has never achieved anything, more on that in just a moment, we think that these people pour all of their energy into a way to create change that will never work and can never work, and therefore that that energy isn't diverted towards getting britain's government to actually do something about these problems.
The reason why amnesty international will never be successful is that no abusive government cares about what some western charity says.
Right?
If I am apartheid south africa, let's say, I don't really care if amnesty international is mad at me.
I only care if british and american businesses are still willing to do business and have trade with me.
So there's no real mechanism for amnesty international to create change other than to beg companies and governments to do something.
And ultimately, at that point, people should be focusing directly on those issues rather than having this huge bureaucratic charity do it for them, which I'll return to in just a moment.
Our second argument is that amnesty international promotes ill will between countries.
Realize that people correctly perceive amnesty international as promoting western norms and interest at the expense of every other country's ideals.
Amnesty international doesn't spend all of their effort trying to get the US to end the death penalty or police brutality, for instance, even though that's a really serious problem.
They spend it trying to get brown dictators to stop torturing their people.
Ultimately, there's a lot of double standards, and we think that people really resent having a british charity come in and tell them how to run their country.
For instance, we think that especially in former colonies, people see this as a way for a former colonial power to mess with their government and try to impose their own moral norms.
At the end of the day, western countries do many things that are reprehensible, oftentimes invading other countries and harming many more people than these dictators ever do.
So we think that the fact that amnesty international focuses only on a certain type of country is really both racist and otherizing and problematic.
Moreover, we think that countries are likely to resent britain because they resent amnesty international and that if britain is to be a force for good in the world, they need to distance themselves from these meddling citizens who hurt their reputation globally.
And our final argument is that we think amnesty international is a bad charity.
So even if the other team thinks government shouldn't care about political will or the ill will that's created by this group, they should care about regulating charities.
Amnesty international has lots of highly paid execs and a huge bloated bureaucracy.
So it's not a very efficient charity, and we think that people are being misled as to what they're donating to.
It's not as though every dollar goes to fighting slavery in sub-saharan africa as amnesty international would have you believe.
In fact, a significant amount of the money goes to paying for british bureaucrats to live in nice flats in london and drive jaguars.
So we just think that this is a bad charity and that the government has a clear interest in shutting down bad charities so that good ones are able to succeed.
We think that charities where the money goes farther and more of the money goes to helping people, like nothing but nets, should be aided essentially by closing down bad charities like amnesty international.
For all these reasons, we should disband amnesty international.
Thank you.