We should not ban organic food.
So we're going to argue that organic food should be legal to produce and purchase even if it's not available for certain government subsidies and other programs.
Our first point is that we think it's unfair to punish the organic food industry while every other industry is allowed to go on doing business as usual.
Rachel tries to justify banning organic food by saying that it is an inefficient way to produce food and that because there are people going hungry right now we need to maximize efficiency in agriculture.
You know what's much more inefficient than organic spinach in terms of its use of land and resources?
All meat.
Should we ban all production of meat because if people were vegetarians it would lead to more efficient use of our agricultural resources?
Well the other side isn't advocating for this, so we think that they're being inconsistent here.
They're punishing organic farmers because organic spinach takes up more resources than inorganic spinach but they're ignoring the fact that the production of some types of food is necessarily less sufficient than the production of other types of food, and that we could feed more people if we banned the consumption of meat, for instance, or perhaps certain other very resource intensive foods.
We think that this is fundamentally unfair.
What's more, even if they want to say: oh fine we're okay with banning meat production, almost all land that isn't being used for food production is inefficient from a perspective of ending world hunger.
Should we ban the construction of movie theaters because we could farm the land underneath them?
This may seem like a bit of a reduction to absurdity but ultimately the other side's case here is absurd.
We don't compel people to use their land in the most efficient way, we let them decide how to do so, and ultimately they're being extremely unfair to these organic companies who aren't acting maliciously or spitefully while every other company is allowed to go on behaving however they will.
Our second argument is about why people have the right to choose what they eat.
Every individual has different needs with regard to their diet, whether those needs be health related or because of a person's beliefs, and individuals will always know these needs and preferences better than the state.
After all, the state is very much abstract from people's day to day lives.
We think that it's important to let people decide what they want to eat, when and how, so that ultimately they're able to maximize their own well being, something that you can't do when you ban one of the most common types of specialty food that people are seeking out.
So ultimately we think that that is an offense or an affront to the people's liberty to choose what they want to eat, when, where, why, etcetera.
It's an overreach of the government's authority to do this.
But moreover we tell you that at the point when the parents make decisions for their children about whether or not to be vegetarian, whether or not to consume peanuts, things like that, we ought also allow them to decide whether or not they want their children eating pesticides or other chemicals.
So ultimately we think that we need to defer to letting people make this decision for themselves about organic food.
And our last argument is about how organic foods can empower the communities where they're located.
So the people producing organic foods are sometimes large corporations, sometimes not, but many of the people working in the production of organic foods are low income people or needy people who are glad to have these jobs.
Because most organic foods are much more time and labor intensive than inorganic foods their production employees many more people.
So ultimately when you ban the production of organic food you're putting millions of people out of work with no opportunity to get a job in inorganic farming because that type of farming is less labor intensive to begin with and therefore doesn't employ as many people per the amount of food that's produced.
So at the end of the day we think this is really unfair to the communities that rely on farming and the communities that rely on farmers to thrive and succeed.
So for all these reasons we should not ban organic food.
Thank you.