We should not protect the right to internet access.
On our side, we're going to explain to you, first of all, why this is an arbitrary right that has no foundation and shouldn't be enforced for that reason and, secondly, about why this would require provision of access and why that's a bad thing.
So, first, we tell you that rights can derive from a few different sources and that this right doesn't derive from any of them.
First of all, rights could be derived from nature.
So people probably have some sort of right to life just by virtue of the fact that they are alive.
Even if we didn't live in a state that could grant us rights, we think that people would still have the right to life, but plainly the internet isn't affected by that because it doesn't exist in the state of nature.
Rights could come from god and, although it's been a long time, I remember him being rather silent on the matter of internet access, so I guess we don't have that.
And finally, rights can be derived from convention but to my knowledge, in no country in the world do the majority of people want to implement a law that would require the government to provide everyone with internet access, more on that in just a moment, nor does any country constitutionally enshrine the right to internet access.
So if rights don't come from nature, god or convention, then I'm very curious where they come from.
At that point, we tell you that there simply is no right to internet access, so it would be preposterous for the government to try to enforce this and to offer it to people.
Will tries to justify this by saying that it's a facilitative right, but why doesn't that make any sense?
Well, there are infinite facilitative rights to almost any right we do have.
Will says that internet access is necessary to facilitate freedom of speech, but you know what?
It would probably be difficult to get the most out of that internet access without a smartphone or an internet device.
So does the state now have an obligation to give everybody a samsung?
It would probably be difficult to access that without access to some sort of hotspot.
So does the state have to give everybody a free router?
Does the state have to install wifi in every public place so that people can always get online?
Does the state need to lay out cables to very remote areas where it's cost prohibitive to provide the internet?
Right?
There're infinite facilitative rights to this facilitative right, which I think shows why the idea of facilitative rights is a poor way to establish a rights framework.
If a right doesn't derive from those three sources I mentioned earlier, nature, god, and convention, then it probably isn't a right and, therefore, we think that everything will tells you about why this is necessary to allow freedom of speech just kind of falls out of the round because it's absurd.
Our second argument is that this would require provision of access.
Giving people the right to internet access and not giving them internet access would achieve nothing.
So even if you accept that this right isn't absurd, we think that we would have to defend a world in which the government gives everyone the ability to actually take advantage of the internet, otherwise, we think that there would be no point in doing this.
Why is that harmful?
Well, the government has limited funds.
So we think that because money is fungible, those funds for the internet would come away from other things.
And, moreover, governments have discretionary and non-discretionary things that they spend on.
So we think that this would have to trade off with other government programs, like tuition subsidies, that are discretional, but that are also clearly much more important to people's well-being than, say, internet access.
We think that a tradeoff with education or roads or other more essential goods is just unacceptable.
So unless will is telling you that governments would massively raise taxes to provide internet to people, which they simply couldn't do, we think it's very likely that this right would be hollow and meaningless even if it did exist.
For all of these reasons, we should not protect the right to internet access.
Thank you.