We should not end athletic scholarships.
So rachel has proposed that we should pay athletes a salary for playing sports and then have them be treated as other students in every other way but we think that we should continue a system wherein all of their tuition, room, and board is provided for them in exchange for their athletic services.
This is the status quo at division one schools, that is to say the largest athletic schools in the united states right now and we think that there are many merits to this model.
Our first point is that this is really beneficial for athletes who play less well known sports.
So if you pay people a salary, and I'll use basketball's an example here, men's basketball players would probably get paid a pretty good salary if you're a star and much less money if you're a bench player.
So even if you're going to all the practices and putting it all the time if you're the third string center for your division one basketball team, you're probably not going to make a lot of money where as the starter players are going to make a huge sum of money.
So this equalizes pay within teams and equalizes access to opportunities within these teams but it's also really beneficial to women and to people who play less popular sports.
Women's basketball players even at the pro level make much less money than men's players and we think this would probably be true if you paid a salary as well because fewer people watch college women's basketball and it doesn't sell as much merchandise.
So because less money is coming in, presumably the players would be paid much less.
So at that point we think that this is really beneficial for women who might not otherwise be able to support their education by playing basketball.
What's more though, sports like fencing that nobody really watches but that still have value as part of the aesthetic good of sport and as an experience for the people who participate, probably wouldn't pay much at all.
We think that the only way for athletes in sports that people don't tend to watch like fencing, like track and field even, for instance, is to give them scholarships rather than to pay some sort of market based salary because at that point these people wouldn't be able to participate at all and we would have inferior athletics and even if you think that there's no aesthetic value to sport which I would contest this would really harm your country's chances in things like the olympic games and other international competitions because your younger athletes wouldn't be participating in many of the events at that level.
Our second argument is that athletic scholarships expand access to education.
Many of the students who go to schools like the university of north carolina, or the university of california at los angeles, wouldn't be able to go to college otherwise because they grew up in areas with bad schools and they didn't come from a community that valued education that highly so they're not going to get into these elite schools because of their college entrance exams but they can get it if they work hard at sports.
So this brings in people who have the ability to succeed if they're given a little bit of extra help but who probably wouldn't receive that investment if it weren't for these scholarships.
So ultimately we think that this increases access to education in low income or less well served communities and our final argument is that athletics are an important part of education.
If you remember plato tells us that it's important that we have a sound mind in a sound body.
Ultimately for thousands of years people have recognized that physical education is an important part of creating a good citizen and a model worker.
We think that although most people don't participate and receive these athletic scholarships, the fact that they exist still inspires people to work hard first of all, in secondary school, so that they can try to win these scholarships which hopefully leads them to have a lifetime of good fitness even if they don't win them and secondly, in college, because people are inspired by these athletes on their campus.
So for all these reasons, we should not end athletic scholarships.
Thank you.