We should abolish term limits.
By this we mean to say that elected officials should be able to serve as many terms as they can be elected to.
Right now the united states, among other countries, have limits on how many terms people can service the chief executive.
You can't be the president more than twice for instance.
Whereas other liberal democracies like germany, have no such limitations.
Angela merkel is in her I believe fourth term as chancellor of germany right now, and plans to run for a fifth in the upcoming elections.
So we see that there are a liberal democracies that do both.
We think that generally speaking anyone ought be able to serve as many terms as they wish to.
Two arguments for our side: the first is that term limits limit the democratic will unnecessarily.
Now, we tell you that in order to be reelected four times, like angela merkel or franklin roosevelt, ultimately you have to be the kind of leader that appeals to a large group of people.
If you don't have a stable, solid broad power base, you wouldn't be able to keep getting elected over and over again.
So while it may be true that some people are voting against you, ultimately it's clear that a leader who was reelected many times has learned to appeal to most people.
Because the government relies on popular support for its legitimacy, we think that it's important that we don't place barriers in the way of people's expression of their will.
The state is less legitimate if you prevent people from expressing their political preferences.
So ultimately, if people want to elect FDR four times or angela merkel four times, and that is their democratic will, then we need to let them.
Because to do otherwise undermines the legitimacy of the state because it undermines the ability of the people to express their democratic will.
So ultimately we ought defer to that expression and if someone is a bad leader or is abusing the system, we should rely on the election to prevent them from doing so, rather than placing arbitrary limits on how people are allowed to vote, which really just seems like elitist gate keeping more than anything else.
Our second argument is about how this takes away competent leadership.
Many countries around the world have had to suspend elections during times of war.
For instance, britain held no elections during the second world war.
In a country where you have strict term limits and regular requirements for elections, this isn't an option.
The united states had to have presidential elections during our civil war and also the second world war for instance.
We think that, well that's a very drastic example of how this can put your country at risk by dividing you and requiring you to go through difficult elections during a crisis.
Ultimately, you lose out on competent leadership even in peacetime.
If you have someone like angela merkel who has successfully navigated many different crises, such as the euro crisis and the financial meltdown and now the refugee crisis, and people want her to continue to guide germany in the future, that's completely reasonable.
Because they have a leader in place who they see as very competent, who they see is able to adjust these different circumstances in a way that is ultimately good for germany.
So when we prevent someone from running again, if merkel had had to step down after two terms for instance, then you might end up with much worse leadership coming into power because ultimately, the comparative is the unknown.
You have a certain good thing with merkel, if she had had to step down after her second term or if she had to step down now, then we would be getting someone in as the chancellor of germany who might not be able to deal with european politics as efficiently, or who might not be able to respond to the refugee crisis in the same way that people want them to.
So we think that it's likely that the person you would get instead would be a former vice president or assistant, in which case because you see a continuation of influence and policies, the intention of the rule is circumvented.
At that point we might as well just let people run for more terms.
For all these reasons, we should abolish term limits.
Thank you.