We should subsidize women in science.
So, by subsidies we mean, for instance, giving special scholarships to women who want to study subjects like physics, and by grants and resources, we mean access to, for instance, government funds for research if these women are researchers or guaranteed access to lab and equipment time, we might be able to offer certain positions at universities preferentially, and other things in order to ensure that women have equal participation in science to men, which we think would be the end goal of this type of affirmative action or subsidy.
So our first argument is that this is necessary in order to right past injustices.
In the past, women have systematically been denied the ability to get science educations and to become researchers.
Sometimes, this has been through education, where women have been prevented from entering certain fields, or just systematically discouraged from entering certain fields, like engineering.
Other times, it might just be because culture hasn't allowed women to pursue higher education, which is necessary to become a scientist or a researcher.
But moreover, we also think that there's a unique obligation to take action to correct for this because it's infringing on the rights of current people.
It's true that by having these subsidies, we won't help all the women who weren't allowed to go to university for a physics PHD in the fifties and sixties, but we can ensure that it never happens again.
And, ultimately, because we're upholding the rights of future people, we do think that there's a very real rights claim on behalf of women to this type of subsidy.
But moreover, we also think that because, in many cases, it's universities or governments that still exist in the same form that they did while they discriminated, that they have an obligation to make up for their past misdeeds by helping people today.
So that's the main principled reason why we think that we need these subsidies.
Our next two points are more practical.
The first is that different types of research are likely to be funded and conducted if we increase funding for women in science.
We think that in the past, fields that women are more interested in have largely been ignored or less focused on by male scientists.
Just of a really basic level, we think that medical research into women's health would like be much better if there were these subsidies available.
We think that it's completely ridiculous that many women still die in childbirth or face serious injuries, even in highly developed countries like the US.
And we think it's likely that new medical techniques or technologies to ease things like childbirth, new forms of birth control that don't have as bad a side effects as estrogen-based birth control, and other types of medicine that is specifically targeted to women are of one obvious example of a way that scientific research would shift if we diverted this funding towards women.
But we also think it's possible that female researchers will just have lived experiences that are different than male researchers that might lead them to ask different questions or go about their research in different ways, and that ultimately this can only expand the amount of knowledge that we have available.
Our final point is that we think this would lead to better science education and discourse in our country.
Right now, because there are so few women in science, we think that science education is very male-dominated.
You have almost entirely male professors in faculties like medicine or engineering, which discourages women from pursuing those fields in the future.
But moreover, the public discourse about science tends to be dominated by older white men who got their PHDs from schools like harvard and cambridge and MIT.
So we think that ultimately, on our side, you're likely to get women who went to different schools, because these subsidies will be made available everywhere, and also women from different backgrounds, because we're providing for subsidies that correct for economic injustices, and moreover, that when you introduce women into the discourse that it's likely that science discourse will change because more voices are being included.
For all these reasons, we should subsidize women in science.
Thank you.