Surrogacy should not be banned.
Right before I get into my points, I'd just like to make something clear.
I don't think many people are going to choose surrogacy as a career.
I think most of the people we're talking about will probably have one surrogate child, maybe two at the utmost and then move on with other careers.
If anything, this is a way for women to access capital, to launch a business or get an education that they otherwise would not.
But I don't think that many women are going to have twenty children, just because biologically it doesn't make sense.
Every successive pregnancy has more risk, so I think that naturally people are going to refrain from having lots and lots of these surrogate pregnancies in their lifetime.
That said, our first argument is about the right to contract.
We tell you that generally speaking people in western societies are allowed to enter into any contract that they want to.
Now we have courts to be sure that contracts aren't unnecessarily abusive, and the other side argues that surrogacy contracts are inherently abusive.
I ask why this is the case.
Yes it's true that you're giving up some part of your bodily autonomy and your time and risking your health for your employer, but how is this different from having a dangerous job?
If the same woman was going to go be a deep sea oil rig repair woman, then she is risking her health and she's giving up a lot of time to her employer and ultimately is probably in a more abusive situation then the surrogate mother.
So we think that ultimately this just isn't that different from other forms of dangerous occupation.
We're not trying to downplay the risks of pregnancy or the sacrifices that surrogate mothers are making, only to point out that there are other professions that similarly require people to make sacrifices or incur risk.
At that point because we let people enter into those contracts, to become oil rig repair women or soldiers or other dangerous occupations, that we ought to allow them to become surrogates as well.
Our second argument is about the benefits that this has for people who can't conceive.
So the people presumably who want to get a surrogate mother to have this child for them are people who otherwise couldn't naturally have a child.
This might mean that we're talking about gay couples or people who are infertile or for any number of other reasons that someone couldn't naturally have a child.
These are people who for biological reasons are unable to conceive but from a social perspective have the same right to be a a parent as anyone else.
Now the other team might say: " oh these people can just adopt ".
But adoption is extremely expensive honestly comparable to surrogacy in many jurisdictions, and you're not always able to get the child that you would like to raise through adoption.
For instance it's very difficult to get an infant and some people might not feel comfortable adopting an older child.
So at that point we tell you that this provides people who have a right to be parents with a way to actually access that right, even though biologically they're unable to do so.
Therefore, if anything, there should be a facilitative right to surrogacy for these people.
Our third and final point is about why we think that the harms and risks of surrogacy are overstated.
We think it's perfectly reasonable for a young healthy woman to say that this is a good decision for her future.
If you had the ability to take some risk in the next year and then gain fifty thousand dollars, or however much money a surrogate makes, and then know that you could use that to pay for university or start a small business or pay off debts or help out your family, we think that many people would make that choice.
And the reason that we know they would is that many people choose to work in the dangerous jobs I talked about.
We think it's perfectly rational for young women to want to go into this line of work and at that point we ought not prevent them from doing so.
The harms given by the last speaker are greatly overstated and the benefits are downplayed in his speech.
Therefore we think that ultimately surrogacy should not be banned.
Thank you.