We should not subsidize transportation network companies.
By these, we mean, essentially, rideshare companies like uber or lyft, and by subsidize, we don't think that governments should provide any operating funds to these companies.
We think that they should be free to compete freely with taxicabs and other businesses like that, but that they don't merit any special consideration by local or national governments.
Our first argument against these subsidies is that this would be a subsidy for more privileged people.
The types of people who tend to be interested in taking uber or lyft tend to be middle-class people.
And you might say that subsidies would open this up to other groups of people as well, but we don't think that's necessarily true.
This is always going to be something that's more expensive than public transit.
There's no way that you're going to be able to get down the cost of a crosstown uber to the same cost as a two dollar subway token.
So we think that this is going to be restricted to a certain class of people and that those people probably need subsidies less than the types of people who rely more on public transit.
And we think that because money is fungible, and because any money that we give to uber and lyft could be spent on developing public transit, that this is a poor use of state funds and is not something that we should pursue.
So our second argument, then, is that this is more costly than public transit.
In the same vein, I just want to explain why this will always be the case.
Every single uber or lyft is not filled to capacity.
What you have is a five-person car that usually has one or two passengers in it and one driver, but this car takes up about a third to a fourth as much space on the road as a city bus that can hold up to sixty people.
So even if that city bus is nowhere near capacity, let's say you only have twelve people on the bus, it's still much more efficient in its use of space on the road than a car.
So we think that when you encourage people to drive rather than to take buses and trains, you make it necessary to dramatically improve road infrastructure, which is extremely expensive.
And what's more, you often do that in ways that won't be useful to buses or to other forms of public transit, for instance, adding lanes to highways as opposed to city streets.
But aside from that, we also think that ubers and lyfts make it necessary to add infrastructure for pickup and dropoff that's expensive.
You either have to take space away from parking, which will meet with backlash from people who drive, or away from bus stops and things like that, which makes it more difficult for public transit to run.
We think that at the end of the day, there are massive costs to subsidizing infrastructure for cars and encouraging car use.
It would be counterproductive when we really need people to start taking buses and trains, because they're so much more efficient than driving personal cars.
And our final argument is that cars themselves are undesirable.
Even if you only give out subsidies for the use of hybrids and things like that, cars are still going to be much more wasteful than buses and trains.
The amount of pollution that has to take place just to produce cars is enormous, and keeping them running requires putting huge amounts of oil and gasoline into the environment.
On top of that, the exhaust from cars is one of the leading causes of climate change.
We think that when you subsidize this type of ridesharing, most people who already own a private car aren't magically going to start using it.
Instead, people are going to stop riding buses and trains, which are oftentimes electric and the infrastructure can be used for twenty or thirty years, so these are much more efficient than individual cars that will get thrown away after ten years.
So we think that cars themselves are undesirable and, therefore, that this type of subsidy would just encourage an actually harmful behavior.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize transportation network companies.
Thank you.