We should not prohibit corporal punishment.
So, I want to be very clear what we're defending in this debate.
We accept the other side's definition that this debate should be about disciplining children rather than prisoners.
We're going to argue that parents should be allowed to use limited amounts of corporal punishment in an intelligent fashion to discipline their children.
So, we're not arguing for just wanton child abuse, obviously.
But we think that there is a middle ground between no corporal abuse at all and true child abuse and that historically, this has been used to good effect to promote discipline and good behavior in children and that we would be throwing away a useful tool if we completely prohibited the use of corporal punishment.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that this can be used for children's own good.
Sometimes it's important to impart a lesson very severely and quickly to children who aren't yet old enough to be reasoned with or to understand the outcomes of their actions.
For instance, if you had a child who was disobedient and who was doing something very dangerous, like playing in the street when they weren't allowed to, we think that ultimately it's in that child's long-term best interest that you do almost anything that would prevent them from playing in the street, because being hit by a car is obviously going to be worse for the child than whatever disciplinary method you choose to use.
Now, tim might try to tell you that there are many other methods we could use to discipline that child but ultimately, one of the huge benefits of corporal punishment is that it's very quick.
Rather than try to wait for a young child to understand the implications of playing in the street and how it might kill them or injure them or someone else, we think that they can very quickly understand, " if I do this, I'm going to get spanked, " and that they can use that to understand the potential harms until they're old enough to understand the reason why this was done.
So we think that, ultimately, this can be done in the child's best interest and that when it's possible to act in the child's best interest, we fundamentally ought do so.
We think that this is a tool in a tool box.
We're not advocating for every parent to always use corporal punishment, but we think that sometimes it can be used in a unique way to protect a child from danger or to prevent antisocial behavior, and for that reason, it not not be prohibited entirely.
The other team in this debate has to prove to you that corporal punishment should never be used.
This is a much higher burden for them than merely proving that it should normally not be used.
We're willing to accept that, but we think that they need to explain to you why there is no situation when it's acceptable, and they won't be able to do so.
Our second point is about how this is an important option for parents to have.
For some parents, they might be able to send their child to their room or take away certain privileges or money if the child misbehaves, but this isn't an option for every parent.
Imagine, for instance, that you were a single mother in a low-income community who had to work two jobs, so you weren't home as often as you'd like to be with your children.
So if your children misbehave, you can't ground them because you're not at home to enforce this.
You might not be able to send them to their room if your family lives in a small apartment, so ultimately you have pretty limited options.
You can't take away an allowance or certain privileges, because you can't afford to give your children those privileges in the first place.
So one of the only disciplinary methods that you can use is to spank your children or otherwise use corporal punishment, and we think that in that particular instance, it's very important that you have access to this in order to promote good discipline in your children.
Now the other team might say this is a marginal case, but that certainly describes millions of people in the united states and around the world.
So we don't think this is marginal at all.
For people who have relatively few options to discipline their children, we think that corporal punishment is an essential tool in their greater suite of disciplinary options.
So for all these reasons, we should not prohibit corporal punishment.
Thank you.