The right to self defense is absolute.
So by this we mean to say that in countries that constitutionally guarantee their citizens rights, we think that there should be no limitation on the right to self defense.
So three broad arguments to this.
The first is about facilitation of rights, the second is about the idea of proportional response, and the last is about where this right arises.
So with regards to facilitating other rights.
We think that it is necessary to defend one's own life in order to access any other right.
So whatever constitutional guarantees you may have, whether that be the right to vote, the right to be on a jury, the right to bear arms etcetera.
All of these depend on your own continued well being.
So we think that at that point, if any other right that you have is absolute, then your right to self defense must be as well in order to defend that right.
It's almost an extension of the other right that is absolute.
And we tell you that there is probably an absolute right to life in most countries.
No one is allowed to kill you, the state can't kill you in most countries.
So this is an absolute right.
And at that point we think it's therefore necessary, at least in those countries, that your right to self defense also be absolute in order to facilitate that other right.
Our second argument is about the types of limitations that we tend to see on one's right to self defense.
In many countries courts would like to see some idea of proportionate response when you respond to a threat against your own life.
So for instance, they wouldn't allow you to justify killing someone because somebody hit you, for instance, because you probably wouldn't have died from being hit again.
But it's impossible to know someone else's intentions.
If someone behaves in a violent or threatening way towards you, such that you fear for your own life, we think that that is legitimate and that you need to act upon it.
We think that people have a good sense of their own safety, and furthermore that no one else who was in that not in that situation can accurately gauge what it was like to be in that situation.
So at that point we think that we ought defer to allowing people to take whatever action they think is necessary when their own life is under threat.
And we already use a similar metric for separating different crimes in the status quo, such as intent for first and second degree murder in the united states.
So we think that at that point courts are already involved in the sort of thinking and ought apply it more broadly.
What's more.
When situations unfold quickly as they often do when violence is in play, we don't think that one can afford to sit back and think, hmm, can I disable this person in a non-lethal way, or can I respond with a lesser amount of force.
People act as quickly as they can and often don't have the ability to think through all of their options clearly.
Lastly we think that the idea of proportionality is probably arbitrary.
We don't see why one person hitting another should proportionately be responded to only by hitting if one is much stronger than the other person or something like that.
We just don't think that it's ever possible to be fair about this type of proportionality, we think it will always be arbitrary.
So our last argument is about why we think that this right arises from nature.
So consider that in the state of nature, so if we imagine way back to the dawn of time when people didn't live in states, everyone could defend themselves from others and this was seen as something that was acceptable.
The big divide between whether or not something is just or unjust seems to be whether it is responsive or aggressive.
So attacking another person in the state of nature is probably still wrong and that's one reason why people form states, but defending oneself is almost certainly not wrong.
And you can see this extended into the fact that every society around the world allows people to defend themselves from a hostile attack.
So we think that at that point this right ought be absolute, because it is a human universal that arises from nature that human beings are allowed to defend themselves from other human beings if their life is under threat, or if they feel unsafe in their person.
Now look, we're not defending people abusing this right, like we saw with the trayvon martin case in florida a few years back, but we think that it's entirely possible for courts to arbitrate which instances of self defense are legitimate and which are not, and then to decide that in legitimate cases the right to self defense is absolute.
So for these reasons we think that that right ought be considered fundamentally absolute.
Thank you.