We should not ban fraternities.
We have three arguments for our side for why fraternities should be allowed to continue and exist at universities.
Our first point is that if you ban fraternities you drive the bad behavior off campus where it is actually more difficult to monitor.
While will is correct that there's a lot of illegal or undesirable activity that goes on at fraternities, at the very least everyone knows where those activities are taking place.
Right now at many universities you have all the fraternities in one particular area such as a group of houses on one street and if there's a problem the university police know where to go, emergency services know where to go, if someone is missing then first responders know the first place check, and ultimately it's better than what you would get if you ban fraternities and disperse them throughout the town where now suddenly no one has a good idea of where parties are going on or how to keep their thumb on what's actually happening.
It'll be more difficult for university police officers or for ambulances and other people to respond when we don't have this kind of data base and intrinsic knowledge of where illegal activity might be happening.
Right now by turning a blind eye to some of the activity that goes on at fraternities, we can ensure that things that are going to happen either way will happen in a relatively better environment.
Students are going to go to house parties and drink whether they have fraternities around them or not.
Unfortunately some people are going to commit crimes like sexual assault whether fraternities exist or not.
Fraternities don't create the types of people who would commit these crimes but at the very least now it's easier to help the people who are victims because we have all of these resources in place around to sort of fraternity infrastructure to deal with these problems.
And just something else I'd like to point out is that universities like brandeis university near boston that have banned fraternities actually just see unofficial fraternities crop up off campus, which leads nicely into my next point about freedom of association.
If people want to form fraternities we think that they have the right to do so and that it would be very difficult to stop them from doing so.
At brandeis university, which I just mentioned doesn't have fraternities, what that actually means is that students living in the town around the school have set up unofficial fraternities instead, so they're not regulated by the school, they don't have to go through any kind of diversity training or anti-alcohol poisoning training like an official fraternity would and students still use them in the same way to get access to alcohol while they're under-age.
So ultimately all of the problems about lots of first and second year student girls being in a basement with a bunch of guys they don't know remain in place but now you don't have university officials trying to mitigate those harms.
But regarding freedom of association, we actually think that people have the right to form these types of groups, that if people want to associate with a group of like minded friends and call themselves some stupid name with greek characters then there's no reason why they shouldn't be able to do that.
The other team needs to explain to you why this is different than having something like a volleyball or lacross team where many of the same harms might be perpetrated but they happen to share a common interest in sports instead of whatever brings people together for a fraternity.
And our final point is about the backlash that universities would experience from banning these fraternities.
Many important alumni donors are likely to be members of these fraternities, many influential members of the campus community are also likely to be involved with these fraternities so we think that ultimately you really undermine your ability to raise money in the future by banning fraternities.
What this means is that programs that help the kind of students who don't normally join fraternities such as financial aid would be harmed by banning them in the first place.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban fraternities.
Thank you.