We should further exploit geothermal energy.
So we think that in countries that have the natural resources to use geothermal energy for instance the united states or iceland it should be used to a much greater extent than it is in the status quo and ideally would provide a large portion of that country's energy at least in regions where it's feasible to do so.
So in the united states this might only be in regions near volcanoes or other geo thermically active areas but in a small country like iceland that might be nationwide.
So our first argument for our case today is that this would promote energy independence.
One of the main things that affects a country's balance of trade whether they export or import more is the importation of energy.
Because very few countries control a large majority of the world's energy resources most countries rely on imports in order to meet their energy needs.
So for instance a country like germany relies heavily on importing natural gas and coal and oil from other countries in order to meet their basic energy needs.
One of the big appeals of a renewable natural resource like geothermal energy though is that it doesn't require imports.
You can tap into your country's own natural resources and in doing so cut back on your energy imports which means that first of all you're less dependent on other countries to meet your basic needs which is good for security and second of all the cost of energy should go down since you no longer have to pay the high cost of refining and transporting fossil fuels.
So it's likely that there's going to be a high up front infrastructure cost to this but we think that ultimately the benefits of not having to import as much fuel in terms of security in terms of long term savings for customers is going to outweigh the cost of this infrastructure especially when it can be built on credit and there are very low interest rates available to governments so these things can be built at a fairly low and effective cost in the long term.
But our second argument is about why this is more feasible than certain other green energies.
It's obvious to anyone who's been informed about climate change that we need to switch over to using green energy instead of non-renewable energies like fossil fuels.
However unfortunately many of the proposed alternative energies were not feasible twenty years ago and are still not really feasible today.
We hear all the time that solar power is ready for primetime but only in areas that get a lot of sun wind power is similarly restricted to certain parts of the world.
Now geothermal energy is also restricted to areas that have this geothermal energy available but the technology is tried and true.
Iceland for instance already uses geothermal energy pretty extensively and it's also been used in some other countries.
And that's because the technology is very simple if you just use the heat from the earth to boil water to turn a turbine.
It's no different than building any other power plant except for your source of heat.
So we think that this is relatively easy to implement and that it won't require huge amounts of research and development in order to get this technology to a useful place.
Moreover we can also already bring in experts from countries that use geothermal energy as consultants in order to ensure that it's being implemented in an effective way.
So in the long term it seems quite likely that geothermal energy is going to play an important part in our energy supply.
After all it's a huge relatively easy to access cheap source of energy and we would be foolish not to exploit it given that we need to turn away from fossil fuels.
Therefore we should further exploit geothermal energy.
First of all because it promotes our national independence second of all because it'll lower costs for consumers and third of all because it won't take huge R&amp;D development up front like some other types of energy would thank you