We should not abolish the two-party system.
In my speech, I'm going to talk about two things: first, stability, and second, why the alternative is actually giving more power to political parties and less to the people.
So, first, stability.
If you look at the list of countries with the most peaceful transition of power, you'll notice a couple of things: one, that britain and the US have far more peaceful transitions of power than any other country, and two, that all of the top countries have two-party political systems.
We would tell you that this isn't a coincidence, that a two-party system tends to lend itself to stable government and to maintaining the same constitution for long periods of time.
The reasons are pretty simple.
First, you don't have to have coalition governments, and second, that historically this has worked and therefore, countries that implement this are likely to adopt other good policies.
But really only the first is important for our debate.
Coalition governments are really bad.
Sam tells you that he wants to implement a system wherein there are five major parties in the US.
This is kind of comparable to the situation in germany right now where there are five or sometimes six parties in the bundestag.
Why doesn't that work well for germany which, I would point out, is a country with a good economy and a strong tradition of democracy, so probably like the best-case point of comparison for the other side of this debate?
It doesn't work very well because it means that in order to form a government, all of the parties have to offer concessions to small minority parties, which then lead to weird inefficiencies in government.
So, for instance, in germany, you could have the christian democrats, who are the main right-wing party, win the election but rely on the christian social union, a party from bavaria, to be able to form a government.
As a result, they now have to go along with whatever their minority partner want in order to establish a government.
So if that means that this minority party is anti-gay rights and the christian democrats, the larger party, are more favorable to gay rights, they can't allow for those reforms because their government would collapse, and this way minority parties can hold your government hostage.
You're more likely to have votes of no confidence, and you're more likely to have strange policy effects just as a result of the fact that these minority viewpoints are able to impose their will on everyone else.
Sam portrays this as though it gives a voice to minorities, but we would argue that it actually takes away the voice of large majorities in some cases, because these minority parties become kingmakers, if you will, in these multi-party parliaments, and that's kind of best case.
You may have heard that france is in the fifth french republic.
Well, the third and fourth both collapsed because of interparty rivalries that made them impossible to govern.
So we can see that there's a tradition of even strong democratic countries having having to rewrite their constitutions essentially, because of interparty disputes that arise from not having a two-party system, and I think that you need stability in order to have long-term planning for the economy, for people to plan their own lives and, therefore, that we're much better off with a two-party system.
But our second argument is that the alternative gives even more power to parties.
Sam says that people right now just vote based on if there's a republican or democrat next to a candidate's name, but that gets even worse if there are more parties.
Why?
Parties are going to run what are called party lists, where they assign seats to people based on their seniority in the party, like they do now in britain or germany or france, rather than picking people from a given area.
So as a result, we think it's likely that the power will now rest entirely with the parties and less so with the people who live in a given area, because they'll now be even more beholden to these political parties.
The only reason it doesn't happen right now is that neither party wants to be the first mover, but with five parties that obstacle is gone.
For all of these reasons, we should not abolish the two-party system.
Thank you.