We should not subsidize journalism.
We think that countries should not have organizations like the BBC or PBS that are publicly funded for journalistic purposes but rather that we should rely on private enterprise to supply people with information.
We acknowledge that journalists play an important role in democracies but for the reasons I'll explain in just a minute, we think they're better filled when government stays out of journalism.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that government subsidies subvert free fair press.
In order to have a successful democracy we need to have journalists who are able to criticize the government and inform people about its misdoings.
When journalist rely on the government for their paycheck, they're much less likely to do so than if they're employed by a private company.
For instance, we see that publications like the guardian, which is completely independent of the british government, are often much more critical of british government actions than organizations like the BBC which rely on public funding.
We don't think there's anything nefarious going on here, but it's obvious that when the government controls a publication or a television channel or what have you, that ultimately that china will be more sympathetic to the government's interest than if they were completely independent.
So we think that in particular if a government controlled source of information is dominant in media space, that this blocks out critical voices and ultimately hinders the fair press rather than facilitating it as will tells you in his speech.
So we think that we shouldn't subsidize journalism because contrary to what you might think it's actually bad for journalism in the long term.
Our second argument is that governments ought not choose winners and losers.
When governments subsidize certain new sources and not others they make it easier for the former to do business than the latter.
We don't think that government should be involved in deciding which businesses are more successful.
Ultimately they should have to compete for money in the market and compete for subscribers fairly rather than receiving a leg up from the government.
If you receive a subsidy then you can afford to do a sub par job or to provide an inferior service because the government will pick up the check at the end of the day.
If you compete in the market then you have to provide the information that people want and provide it effectively otherwise you'll go out of business.
We think that ultimately the government shouldn't be supporting people who are less efficient or less effective, while others are competing at maximum efficiency and effectiveness.
In particular we don't think the government she choose certain journalists or certain viewpoints to win out over others which is likely to happen.
We think that groups that are outside the norm or slightly outside the pale of what's normally accepted might be shut out if the government is choosing these winners and losers but as history shows us, the government isn't always a good arbiter of who should and shouldn't be excluded from public discussions especially as mores change over time, we're likely to regret those decisions in the future.
Our third and final argument is that this is a poor use of funds.
Government money is fungible.
If we spent this money on any other program that means that it wouldn't go to journalism and vice versa.
At the point where there are millions of people who rely on the state for necessities like education and housing, we just don't think that it's justifiable to spend lots of government funds on journalism instead which is ultimately a luxury by comparison.
We think that the state should focus on spending that ultimately does the most good for society and that it's likely that this will be things like feeding the or feeding the needy and housing the homeless rather than making it easier for people to get the six o'clock news.
So because this subverts the free and fair press, because we don't think government should decide what people do and don't hear, and because this money could be better used elsewhere, we should not subsidize journalism.
Thank you.