We should ban telemarketing.
By this we mean the practice of calling people on their personal phone in order to try to sell them some product or service.
One of the defining traits of telemarketing is that it is unsolicited.
These aren't people who asked to receive a phone call about a product.
It's something that is a cold call, basically made to people who have never requested to receive that call.
Our first argument for our side is that this is extremely intrusive.
We would argue that people have the right to privacy in their homes.
For instance, you aren't obligated to receive a solicitor at your front door and many neighborhoods or communities actually prevent solicitors from going door to door.
This is why traveling vacuum salesman which were something of a feature of american culture in the mid twentieth century have largely gone away.
But not only is this intrusive in the sense that we wouldn't allow this in a physical sphere but also because you can't escape from telemarketing.
Now that everyone calls people on their cell phone as well as their home phone you can be at work or at any part of your life and still receive these very intrusive calls.
And because people generally only receive calls either from people that they care about or some problem or something important they feel compelled to answer only to learn that their time has been wasted.
We think that people ultimately have an a right to expectation of privacy not only in terms of their home which we see in the way that people can ban people from entering their home but also on their cell phone because this is an extension of their personal property.
No one has positively consented to receive these calls and people have a reasonable expectation that their phone number not just be given out to anyone that wants it.
So we think that ultimately this is violating people's natural expectation of privacy and therefore that the state ought step in and ban this telemarketing.
Our second point is that telemarketing is predatory.
I'd like to back up for a second.
We think that the state should ban a practice when it has disproportionate harms to a certain community and we're going to argue that telemarketing has a disproportionate harm to the elderly.
Many elderly people are easily taken advantage of by telemarketers.
Indeed a lot of these companies target elderly people specifically.
This is because for people who didn't grow up with telemarketing and who aren't as familiar with modern technology these people are much more easily confused or scammed by telemarketers.
If they're told for instance your computer needs an update that costs thirty dollars you're not in as much of a position as a younger person who grew up with this technology to know that that's completely bogus and that actually their computer is fine and there's no way that this person could know that.
At the same time if they receive a call threatening them and telling them that they no money even though they don't they're much more likely to feel pressured to give in because as an elderly person they're feel less able to defend themselves over the phone or don't realize that this is being used to take advantage of people.
And we tell you that ultimately because many elderly people live on pensions or fixed incomes they can't afford to have these phone scams.
And even quasi legitimate businesses often take advantage of the elderly such as by up selling them or giving them products that they don't need and you they use this telemarketing as one of their primary ways to find these gullible people that they can take advantage of.
So we think that oftentimes telemarketing exists as a way to prey upon helpless elderly people because younger people would simply hang up the phone.
So we think that there's a clear duty of the state to intervene because this group of people is being disproportionately harmed and also because there's a lack of information and education for elderly people about the risks of telemarketing and the harms that these people do.
So we think there's a clear case for the government to step in and prevent this from happening.
For all these reasons we should ban telemarketing.
Thank you.