We should not ban racial profiling.
On our side of this debate we're going to explain why while racial profiling may not be something that we'd like to see in every instance and it may be something that's regrettable, it is sometimes necessary and it is a tool that we should keep in our toolbox for maintaining public safety.
We have three main arguments: the first is about safety, the second is in response to danny's arguments about rights, and the third is about how the trade-off would actually be worse for more people.
So first: how does this make us safer?
Danny would tell you that this actually creates less safety because of the resentment people feel about racial profiling.
But we would argue that simply having a highly visible security apparatus makes it much less likely that there were terrorist attacks, and in particular that it would be naive to pretend that there's an equal likelihood of terror attacks from every segment of the population.
Note that this isn't to say that the current system of racial profiling in every country is perfect, but we do think that for instance it would be unreasonable for israel not to have more screening for people who are from hostile countries than for people coming from canada or australia.
Similarly we think that it would be unreasonable for the united states right after nine eleven not to have extra scrutiny for people who might be of the same background as the people who carried out that attack.
We think that at the end of the day it's easy to say that this doesn't work, but one reason is that the racial profiling has a huge deterring affect.
It makes it less likely that people from the group that is being profiled will commit an attack because it's much more likely that they'll be caught if they try.
So I don't think it's enough for the other side to say that this doesn't do anything and it's racist.
They have to take into account this deterrent effect that racial profiling has and that this makes everyone comparatively safer to a world in which we naively assumed that a little grandma is as much a threat as a twenty year old man traveling from a war-torn country.
Our second argument is about why this isn't necessarily a rights violation.
First we'd like to ask you where people's rights come from.
On our side we don't think that people's rights come from nature because clearly in the state of nature people don't have rights, they just kind of live as best they can or from god, that's a whole sticky issue in itself.
Rather we think that people's rights come from convention, that is to say from what people agree their rights are and that this is something that societies have to negotiate on their own.
Thus for instance people have the right to freedom of speech in the US or germany and other liberal countries but not in say saudi arabia or the people's republic of china.
We think that countries don't have an obligation to extend a particular right such as the right not to be profiled in an airport.
If a society thinks that this is something that's necessary and beneficial we think that they're within their rights not to extend people that right.
And I think that this undercuts a lot of danny's analysis because he only asserts that there's a right being violated here, he doesn't explain where that right comes from.
And finally, we think that a world without racial profiling would actually lead to more discrimination and more people being punished arbitrarily.
Why?
We don't think that governments can afford to stop searching the people that the search now so instead they're going to have to massively expand their ability to search people so that it no longer appears that they're profiling anyone.
In other words if they still want to search young arab men at a new york city airport they would just have to pull nine other people out of line as well alongside the one person that they want to profile.
We think that this would lead to many more people being inconvenienced and potentially injured by security staff than the status quo and therefore that using the other team's logic this is unacceptable.
For all of these reasons we should not ban racial profiling.
Thank you.