We should prohibit corporal punishment.
So in this debate we're saying that in schools, in the army, in the criminal justice system, we should not allow the use of physical punishment in order to cause pain to change people's behavior.
And we think this debate is applicable in basically every country around the world because our arguments are based more on principle than any one countries legal system.
So three arguments for our side.
First, we think that physical punishment is unethical.
Why is this so?
We think that in order for an action to be ethical or moral it needs to be universalizable.
In other words it is unethical to lie to people because while sometimes, individual lies may have good ends, you know if you tell your mom that she looks nice in an ugly sweater, maybe that has a good end.
But if everyone lied all the time than society couldn't function.
We couldn't do business or have contracts.
So we think lying is unethical because it's not universalizable.
Whereas something like telling the truth virtually always will have good ends.
So what we tell you is that corporal punishment is not universalizable because while it may be true that spanking unruly child will cause them to work harder in school or something like that.
In general, there are many times when using this violence would be completely unacceptable, such as punishing someone arbitrarily or beating someone for saying something that you don't like, etcetera.
We think that because this behavior isn't universalizable that it's unethical.
And that generally speaking, the law should seek to prohibit unethical conduct.
We see this is true, we punish unethical behavior in many professions.
I don't see why it should be different in education or in the military or the criminal justice system.
Our second argument is that corporal punishment leads to harmful societal norms.
When people grow up expecting that physical force is going to be the main deterrent against doing something wrong, they're less receptive to other deterrents.
People are less likely to do the right thing because it is the right thing if they grow up knowing that they're going to be hit for doing the wrong thing.
That creates an incentive for people to lie, cheat, steal, whatever it may be and try to get away with it to avoid the punishment.
Why is this true?
If you grow up in a society that tells you to feel guilty for doing the wrong thing, where punishments are based on access to privileges and things like that, we tell you that you're likely to have an intrinsic motivation to do the right thing.
Conversely if your motivator as a child to do the right thing is to avoid getting hit, we think it's very likely that you'll have an extrinsic motivation to do the right thing.
And at that point there's no reason not to do bad things if you know you can get away with them.
So ultimately we think that prohibiting corporal punishment will lead to more people having an intrinsic motivation to do the right thing which will actually lead to less crime, less antisocial behavior, then corporal punishment and it extrinsic motivation.
Our third and final argument is that violence begets violence.
If you raise young people to say, look your mom is bigger than you and she's going to hit you if you do bad things, then you're encouraging them to do the same elsewhere in their lives.
Studies have shown that boys who are beaten as children are more likely to beat their wives, and why wouldn't they be?
If you grow up being told that when someone does something that is wrong or bad, you hit them, then why wouldn't you expect those boys to grow up and then beat their wives if they do something they don't like?
So we think that many societal ills are caused by creating a culture of violence, especially for children.
And this extends to the military as well.
If you treat people very harshly during their military training, can you really be surprised if they treat civilians of an enemy country very harshly?
I think there's a reason why the red army treated german civilians so differently than the american army, and part of that is the harshness of discipline that was faced on the two sides respectively.
So at the end of the day we should prohibit corporal punishment because it's unethical, because it creates harmful norms, and because violence begets violence.
Thank you.