We should not subsidize higher education.
So, on our side, we're not arguing that we should close down public institutes of higher education, but we think that students should be responsible for the cost of their attendance.
So, for instance, were fine with the university of california continuing to exist under the auspices of the state of california, but we think that attendees should have to pay the cost of attendance right now as opposed to a system like what they have in germany where the state pays for your tuition and cost of attendance or system like in the united states where the government offers you heavily subsidized loans that don't collect interest until after you've graduated.
Three arguments for our side, the first is that subsidies to higher education lead to overall higher costs.
Now, this actually makes a great deal of sense once you think about it.
Right now let's say you're an administrator at the university of california and you need to raise more money for the school in order to build a new building.
If you raise tuition then students will just borrow the difference from the federal government because they have access to these very low interest loans that are heavily subsidized by the state, and what's more the government makes these loans available to almost everyone by saying that it's in the public interest to do so.
So you can raise the cost of attendance as much as you want as long as you do it gradually and the government will continue to pay the difference by giving students loans.
Now if the students go on to default it's not your problem, it's the government's problem.
We've seen that this is happened in the last thirty or so years in the united states.
The cost of attendance at major universities has skyrocketed as student loan indebtedness also increases.
So we think that ultimately, administrators will take advantage of the availability of easy money to jack up costs which means that ultimately the cost for everyone is higher because students still have to pay back those loans.
And even in a country like germany were students don't have loans to pay back, the tax burden still increases greatly as university fees increase so ultimately this does have real harms to society.
Our second argument is that subsidizing higher education drives down the quality of the education available.
This is for the same reason.
If there's easy money to be made by offering more seats at your university because the government will fund anyone to go get higher education then ultimately you have an incentive to make higher education accessible to people who may not really be qualified for a college degree.
So you have universities doing things like offering remedial classes to people who will pay lots of money and ultimately not go on to be very successful or who will go on to get a worthless degree from a badly ranked school, but that doesn't matter to the administration because the subsidies mean that government money will just keep flowing in.
So we think that ultimately the government ends up subsidizing poor quality education while better schools tend to already have funding and rely less highly on subsidies.
And our third and final point is that we think there are limits to the right to education.
All rights are always making a trade off with other rights, no one can have absolute freedom all the time.
So even if you agree with will, that people have some right to higher education, ultimately there has to be a limit.
Why don't we pay for people to go to medical school in america?
Why don't they pay for second degrees in almost any country in the world?
Because at some point we acknowledge that higher education costs money and we can't just keep billing and billing and billing the taxpayer in order to let everyone get the education they've decided that they want, there has to be a limit.
And we think that ultimately because people don't need higher education to be citizens or to work and because people who get higher education are adults, rather than the children receiving secondary education, that they can take responsibility for themselves in a way that secondary school students cannot.
So with all of these points in mind we should not subsidize higher education.
Thank you.