We should not ban telemarketing.
Contrary to what rachel has told you, we're going to explain why telemarketing is not fundamentally different from other types of marketing and why it shouldn't uniquely be banned.
So, first, we tell you that this is no more abusive than other types of sales.
We think that it's unfair for the government to target one type of business while they leave other types of business free to compete against these now handicapped companies.
Rachel needs to explain to you why telemarketing is fundamentally different from door-to-door salesman, or from intrusive ads on television or the internet, or those little kiosks at shopping malls where people try to convince you to buy sunglasses or whatever.
We think at the end of the day that there's not really any unique harm to telemarketing.
It's just another way for businesses to put information and the opportunity to buy their goods out there to customers.
We think that the reason why businesses spend so much money on telemarketing is that some people like to purchase things over the phone.
After all, if it didn't work, businesses wouldn't spend money on it.
So we think rachel needs to explain to you why this is uniquely pernicious.
Our second argument is about why this isn't unnecessarily intrusive.
And I think this is the most obvious way rachel could respond to our first argument, by saying that telemarketing is unique because it's so intrusive into our lives.
I don't think that's really the case though.
There may have been a time when because people had mostly landline phones without caller IDs, when you couldn't tell if telemarketers were your neighbors or salespeople.
And there may have been a time when there was no way to avoid having your phone constantly ring and disturbing you at home because of telemarketers.
But nowadays, fewer and fewer households have landline phones, and in many countries around the world, the rate is even lower than it is now in america.
Most people now get most of their junk calls on their mobile phone.
Why is this important?
Well, I don't know about you, but if I get a call from someone I don't recognize on my cell phone, I don't answer it.
In fact, my new phone actually tells me that a call is likely spam.
But what's most important is that everyone's cell phones now have caller ID which shows that you're getting a call from a one eight hundred number or sometimes from a particular company.
So you can see that you're getting a call from, I don't know, some marketing company or whatever, and you're able to tell that this isn't actually your grandma and you don't need to answer the phone.
So I just don't think this is intrusive as rachel would need to make it out to be in order to go after this type of business.
People make a choice to answer the phone to telemarketers.
If people are being convinced to buy something over the phone, they're still responsible for that, because they made an active choice to purchase this good and an active choice to answer the phone in the first place.
People don't need to be protected from persuasive marketing, they need to make better decisions.
And rachel is unfairly punishing certain businesses when she proposes this model and trying to protect people from themselves, which we don't think is the role of government.
And our final argument is that telemarketing makes products uniquely accessible to certain types of people.
If, for instance, you have someone who's very elderly, and can't drive, and lives in an area where they can't walk anywhere, that person might have a hard time doing their shopping or finding access to goods, and telemarketers uniquely make them aware of what exists that's available for them.
Most telemarketers aren't just throwing their goods out in the wind.
They do research the people they're calling.
So, for instance, you might have a company that sells goods for old people who are incontinent call an elderly person, and that might be the only way that these elderly people are able to get access to these goods.
We think that there are other groups of people too, like disabled people, who also have less mobility and might need access to goods over the phone.
So we think that telemarketing actually serves a market that is under wise otherwise underserved and therefore that this is something uniquely good in society.
For all these reasons, we should not ban telemarketing.
Thank you.