We should not ban media conglomerates.
On our side we're going to explain why banning media conglomerates would actually lead to fewer views being expressed overall in the media space and then secondly, why this would be an abuse of government power.
So first of all, why would this lead to fewer views being expressed overall if we ban media conglomerates?
We tell you that the reason why so many newspapers and cable channels and other media outlets are owned by these conglomerates is that they're the only ones who can afford to operate these types of media.
Newspapers and cable channels no longer bring in the revenue that they did a few decades ago and in particular for newspapers, this really jeopardizes their ability to exist.
Without media conglomerates we think it's more likely that newspapers in medium-sized cities would just close rather than that they would go back to being independent the way they were a few decades ago.
So we think that what would happen is you would be left with a handful of newspapers like the new york times or the manchester guardian, that happen to have private endowments or that happen to have lots of advertising support that would continue but most of the other newspapers in the US and britain and other countries with large media conglomerates would simply go under.
This would mean that the voices offered to those regions that would no longer have local papers would not be expressed in the media space.
Valuable coverage of events in places like ohio or scotland or other areas that might not have local papers anymore just would not exist.
We think that this would do a huge disservice to people in those communities because they would be less informed about their local government and local goings on, but that this would also effectively crowd out the voice of everyone who doesn't live in one of a few major metro areas that would still have newspapers.
It would require even more centralization of journalists and we think would ultimately lead to fewer viewpoints being expressed as more of the people participating in media as an industry had the same lived experiences.
So we think that these media conglomerates, while not perfect, allow more people to access media in terms of purchasing and in terms of writing than the alternative world we would most likely see were we to ban these conglomerates.
But secondly, we think that this is a huge instance of government overreach because it unfairly targets one industry.
Yes it's true that the media industry has centralized a lot and become more and more consolidated in the last few decades but this is true of many other industries as well such as banking and automakers.
We think that the other side of this debate needs to do more to tell you why the government should uniquely break up large companies that hold media properties as opposed to other large companies.
It seems that there is a tendency over time for industries to consolidate and we don't think that it's fair to punish one industry when none of the actors have acted in bad faith in particular and an industry that hasn't done anything to hurt the public while letting other industries continue to consolidate without being punished.
This will discourage future investment in media properties because there will be a fear of the government breaking them up if that property becomes too prominent.
So we think that this is actually just a punitive action by the state in a grossly unfair way.
And in response to what the other side may tell you about elites having too much control over the media, this is not something new.
The elites have always had control over the media and what was available to people and there's no solution here because even if the manchester guardian isn't owned by a media conglomerate, it's still largely written for by people with oxford and cambridge degrees and largely read by people with a similar education.
So that at the end of the day, the most educated and elite parts of society still control the paper even if they don't own it through a conglomerate.
For all these reasons, we should not ban media conglomerates.
Thank you.