We should not ban male infant circumcision.
So we think that while certain regulations for safety might be permissible such as requiring that a doctor perform this rather than a religious leader, that ultimately male infant circumcision should be legal and up to the parents.
We have three points for our side in this debate.
The first is about the rights of parents.
We rely on a child's parents to make many important decisions for them throughout their life their name, their education, their religious upbringing, the values which they learn, how often they see that doctor, what kind of sports and exercise they engage in.
Everything that they do until age eighteen is decided by their parents.
We think therefore that it's completely in line with these principles to allow male infant circumcision.
Circumcision, at the end of the day, is relatively routine when we consider all of the other responsibilities that we give parents.
Parents make decisions that are reflect on their child's well being such as getting vaccines, seeing the doctor, things like that all the time.
We don't see how circumcision is uniquely different here.
But in particular, we think that in certain communities because circumcision is so much the norm and so expected that children would actually face some harms from not being circumcised.
Whether that be guilt or feeling like they can't fully partake in their religious community and we think it's up to parents to recognize this and make a decision about whether or not their child might be in that sort of circumstance and be better off being circumcised.
Ultimately, parents have more information about their child than the government, so we ought defer to letting parents make these decisions rather than bureaucrats in london or washington.
Our second point is about public will.
Now, a large majority of men in the united states and many other countries are circumcised.
So it seems clear that the public through their actions has already voted on this.
It's not like circumcision is some sort of fringe phenomenon that only a tiny minority of people participate in.
If hundreds of millions of americans are circumcised, than it seems that the american public is generally okay with this.
The state's legitimacy rests on reflecting public will.
The government sovereignty is derived from the people and ultimately it should try to represent the interests and desires of those people.
So when the public is vastly pro-circumcision, as the evidence seems to suggest, it would be unjust for the state to act against circumcision.
Ultimately, this would be undermining the state's legitimacy by acting in a way that is contrary to the public will especially in something like this where it's very easy to measure and ascertain the public will.
So because ultimately most people are okay with this and because there are few harms to anyone else we should permit this and I'd like to point out no one is being forced to be circumcised.
This is always up to the choice of the parents.
So we think that this reflects the public will and has no third party harms.
Tim might try to tell you that this is a third party harm to the child but as we rely on parents to make all decisions for their children already, I don't think that's really the case here.
At our final point is that there are very few harms to allowing circumcision.
Tim tries to paint this in a very dramatic light but ultimately, hundreds of millions of people in the world today are circumcised maybe even billions and many of them live completely fulfilling happy lives.
We don't see that circumcision prevents people from doing any of the things they might like to do later in life and so we don't think that there's any undue burden being placed here.
At that point, you need to weigh the harms.
While some people may wish they weren't circumcised, it seems that they are a small minority since people keep circumcising their children.
So ultimately, because there are benefits to so many people in terms of the religious duty that they're able to fulfill and the harm is relatively minor we should defer to keeping circumcision legal.
Thank you.