We should legalize public nudity.
So I think it's important to establish a couple of definitions.
By public nudity we mean the ability for people to see the naked body in a public place.
Straightforward enough.
But we think it's important that this round is about non sexual nudity.
We're okay with preventing lewd behavior, but we don't think that there's inherently sexual about naked bodies in and of themselves so we think that they ought be permitted in public.
So, our first argument is about victimless crimes.
So first of all I think it's important to establish nobody even the smallest child is unaware of nudity.
Everyone sees their own body every day.
On top of that though we tell you that there is no harm to seeing another person naked.
I'd like to ask the other team to explain where this horror might arise.
We don't see how seeing a familiar sight, something that your entirely aware of, something that occurs in nature, something that isn't especially obscene, except for perhaps according to certain religious groups that not everyone is a part of, something that effectively shouldn't be offensive to anybody.
We think that just as in the status quo there's been a huge push to allow mothers to nurse in public because it's not sexual and it's not obscene and it's a normal part of life that everyone has participated in, we should allow nudity in the same way because, again.
, there are no harms and it's a perfectly normal part of life.
So the question then is why do we punish in the status quo?
The status quo is fundamentally moralizing and we don't think this is the role of the state.
Basically.
Right now, in countries that don't allow public nudity, like some parts of the US or europe, certain people have decided that because they don't want to see naked people in public, no one should be able to be naked in public.
Now this seems problematic because it makes a value judgment on behalf of everyone and that value judgment is that it's more important that some individuals can avoid the naked body than other people can choose to express themselves.
We think that in the same way that clothing choice is incredibly diverse and not very regulated and that's a huge expression of one's own public opinions so is nudity.
We don't see why you should limit someone's public expression, particularly when most countries protect freedom of expression but don't give people some sort of positive right not to see nudity.
It just seems like the enforcement of arbitrary moral standards on everyone.
Moral standards that are probably held by a minority in many countries at this point in time.
So our second argument then is about fair standards.
I think that it would be okay to legalize nudity if we could come up with general fair standards for when people were decent and not decent.
But I think that the the very idea of decency is arbitrary and I think that in order to win the debate the other side needs to explain to you a fair standard for decency.
So right now it's probably true that most countries have a majority view.
Perhaps most people in a country like france think that it's okay to be nude at the beach but not okay to be nude at the supermarket.
But we think that first of all that's arbitrary, why should the rules be different in one place where families go every day, like the beach, then another place where families go everyday, like the supermarket.
Maybe it would be nice if everybody wore a collared shirt to work every day, and maybe a workplace can require that, but we don't see that you should require a collared shirt in the supermarket if you don't require one everywhere.
This doesn't seem meaningfully different.
Yes, nudity might be a bit shocking, but it's only because we're not used to it.
It's not really that different than the distinction between a collared and collarless shirt.
So you're effectively enforcing the views of a majority on a minority arbitrarily.
And within society there's also likely to be a great deal of dissent about what is and isn't decent.
For instance, muslim citizens of france might prefer to see women cover their heads at all times.
We think that that's a perfectly legitimate individual choice but in the same way that some people might be offended by seeing or even though some people might be offended by a single woman with her head uncovered in the streets in a french city, some people are offended by seeing nudity in the streets of a french city.
Most french people would argue against a more restrictive standard, such as forcing women to keep their heads covered, we in the same way favor a less restrictive standard by allowing people to choose to be nude if they want to do so.
Ultimately we think that there's no clear line in the sand for when a standard of decency becomes fair, or becomes arbitrary, or when something becomes decent or indecent, so at that point we ought just defer to maximizing individual freedom by allowing public nudity.
So for these reasons, because it doesn't hurt anybody and because there's no fair way to regulate against it, we should legalize public nudity.
Thank you