We should not ban solitary confinement.
On our side we would argue that prison should have solitary confinement as a tool in the toolbox when they decide how to treat an individual prisoner.
We think that there should be rules, absolutely, about solitary confinement in order to make it as humane as possible, but that ultimately it's sometimes it is necessary.
Our first argument is that it's almost always better to limit a practice rather than ban it, especially in this case.
Sometimes solitary confinement is going to be necessary.
We'll talk more about that in just a minute, but we think that ultimately if you ban solitary confinement you put prison administrators in a difficult position.
They have to do something about this prisoner and they're not allowed to just lock them away anymore.
So how do they respond?
We think that either they will come up with new and equally cruel punishments, because remember the deterring effect oftentimes comes from the cruelty, or they'll come up with new policies that aren't regulated.
And because regulation often lags behind the creativity shall we say of decision makers it seems likely that some prisoners could be put into much worse situations even than solitary confinement.
So honestly this could lead to a much greater harm for certain prisoners if you ban solitary confinement versus allowing something that's well understood and well regulated to take place.
So our next argument is that sometimes we need to protect different parties within a prison.
Let's imagine you have a prisoner who is seriously at risk from the prison population.
Maybe it's a prisoner who was a child molester and the word got out to the other prisoners and they're going to kill this person or beat them within an inch of their life, because they hate child molesters like the rest of us.
These types of prisoners are oftentimes at great risk from the general prison population of being attacked.
So if you're a prison warden and you're responsible for the safety of your prisoners, even the child molesters, sometimes your best option is to keep them completely segmented away from other prisoners.
And because with that type of person you also have to worry about your guards taking justice into their own hands and taking care of this reprehensible individual sometimes you even need to keep them away from your guards as well.
So solitary confinement might be your best option to keep this person physically safe in that scenario.
Is that ideal?
Certainly not.
But for some individuals there's never going to be an ideal scenario.
At the same time we might have someone who just poses a threat to the general prison population.
What do you do if someone kills their bunk mate?
This person obviously can't be housed with another prisoner now that they've killed their partner or their bunk mate.
And at the same time you have to keep them in this prison, there's nowhere else for them to go.
So solitary confinement might be the only place you can put them that keeps all of the other prisoners safe from them.
When you're a prison warden you have to balance many different competing claims for safety and justice and sometimes that means you're going to have to you solitary confinement.
And our final argument is about public perception.
Whether or not solitary confinement is torture doesn't really matter to whether it's used in prisons.
What matters is whether the public thinks it ought be used in prisons.
If you ban solitary confinement that's going to create public backlash because people want prisoners to go through solitary confinement.
This is going to lead to more strict officials being elected, to harsher laws being imposed, and if you care about the well being of prisoners this backlash could actually ultimately be worse for the prisoners than what we have in the status quo.
Because the public unfortunately is quite conservative and quite tough on crime.
So for all these reasons we should not ban solitary confinement.
Thank you.