Social media does more harm than good.
So by social media we mean for instance, facebook, twitter, and similar computer programs where people are posting information about themselves and their life and photos, in order to communicate with their friends and their community, and talk to people about their experiences.
So with this in mind, we think that this debate comes down to whether or not the bad things that they do outweigh the good things.
Obviously there are some of both, but we don't think that the good things are enough to justify the bad.
So, three reasons.
First, alienation.
We think that although apps like facebook and twitter are supposed to make us feel closer to our community and our friends, they have exactly the opposite effect.
People see that their friends are going on incredible vacations and engaged in really amazing relationships and very fulfilled in work because facebook tends to show you good things rather than bad, and people feel worse about their own life.
We think that people feel ungrateful for what they have, that people feel like failures that people feel pressured to get into relationships that they shouldn't be in or to take jobs that they don't want because they think that they need to keep up.
There's this old expression about keeping up with the joneses, and we think that facebook is the new way that people try to do that.
They feel like they have to be doing as well as their neighbors so that they can post all of the stuff on line.
And they see it as a moral failing if they're not able to do so.
And all of this is despite the fact that nobody really pays attention to anyone else on social media, it's all actually just about making yourself feel good.
So at the end of the day, we see that social media makes people feel uncomfortable and alienated from their community, and that ultimately this is a really bad thing for a lot of people's mental health.
So our second point is about bullying, and I think this follows in a similar vein to the last point.
But we see that social media, in addition to being a powerful tool for people to be friends to one another, is also a really powerful tool for them to be cruel to one another.
This is especially true for younger people.
Bear in mind that many , young people, as young as twelve and thirteen, are heavily invested in social media.
They have smartphones and they're posting everyday about school and sports and things on twitter and facebook, sharing pictures on instagram, and always commenting on each other's posts.
And a lot of times this is used as a tool for bullying.
So the kinds of harmful interaction that you might say that's just part of being twelve that's just part of middle school, kids will grow out of it.
But where as that might have been true when we were younger, nowadays this bullying follows children into the home.
Because you can't just leave school and get away from the kids who are being mean to you, now you go home and they're commenting on your facebook and they're commenting on your instagram, twitter, whatever and ultimately being really cruel to you and you can't get away from it.
You might just say these people can choose to turn off their phone or disengage, but that is often seen as giving into the bullies or only gives them more ammunition to use against you.
So we see that social media has been a huge tool for the expansion of bullying, and that this is uniquely harmful for a lot of young people in society.
Our last point is about spying.
So what we mean by this is that governments can use social media very easily as a tool to monitor their own citizens.
This might be really blatant such as china setting up government owned social media, where they keep track of who post what, who was saying political things, who is meeting with who, and everyone knows that this is going on.
And in western countries where governments also monitor their citizens through social media, but they do it covertly and people don't realize that this is going on.
But the government is still gathering meta data, and twitter and facebook are still turning data over to the government about our everyday lives.
We think it's much harder for people to be private, to organize against undemocratic governments in places like the middle east, now the other team might point out the arab spring but also recognize that twitter and facebook were a tool for crack down, and for governments to find out who was part of the rebellions in the arab spring.
This is a pretty powerful tool for state spying, and we think that that outweighs the benefits for resistance and organization.
So for these reasons, we think that social media does more harm than good.
Thank you.