The affordable care act brings more good than harm.
So the affordable care act, also known as obama care, is the current healthcare system in the united states.
Basically the way it works is everybody is required to have health insurance, if you don't receive it through your employer, as most americans do, then you can purchase it through an exchange which is set up by the government to allow people to purchase health insurance.
Since the ACA went into affect the cost of health insurance has gone up, although it was already increasing even before the bill was put into place.
So with that background, we have three reasons for why we think it's done more good than harm.
First, we think that for people with preexisting conditions, the affordable care act has been an enormous boon.
Before the affordable care act, health insurance companies in the US like blue cross, blue shield, didn't have to provide health insurance to people who had pre existing conditions.
So let's imagine that you had a relatively minor condition throughout your life, something like a non cancerous tumor that didn't need operation or removal, but it was just something that was part of your body.
Health insurance companies would legally be entitled to deny you coverage if you had something like that, even if it wouldn't increase your cost of care.
They would be able to rule you out and you wouldn't be able to purchase health insurance, in most regions, from anybody.
This would mean that you would have to pay out of pocket and it would be tremendously expensive.
Now, that's a be bad problem for the person I described, but for someone who has an expensive condition like diabetes for instance, that person would never be able to buy health insurance if they lost the plan they had when they discovered they had the disease, and ultimately their quality of life will be much lower than someone else's.
So we think the ACA has really helped these people.
Some of those wars stop in society.
Those who have diabetes, those were disabled, those who have a disabled family member, and we think that for that reason alone it has done more good than harm.
But we'll talk about two other things as well.
So our second point is about the uninsured.
Millions of people used to think that they couldn't get health insurance.
For some that was probably true, and others are probably just not making their priorities correctly.
But what this led to was lots of people who didn't have health insurance.
Millions of americans, tens of billions even.
Those people are much better off now that they have health insurance, although some of them may protest that they can't afford it, ultimately, having health insurance ensures that these people get preventive care, something that they wouldn't have received otherwise, and also that their dependents receive care.
So if you were a parent who made the questionable financial decision not to purchase health insurance, that meant that your children also didn't have health insurance.
Now, because everyone is required to purchase health insurance, we think that dependents such as the elderly and children are more likely to be taken care of.
And again, we think that the benefits of providing for those who are dependents are not able to take care of themselves more than outweigh the harms of some people having to spend money they didn't want to spend.
Our third point is about risk pooling.
So the way that the affordable care act works, the reason why it keeps costs down for those who have very high costs, like people with cancer, diabetes, is because it spreads the burden around.
Healthy young people who normally would pay very little without the affordable care act, now have to pay considerably more because they are taking on some of the cost of the health care for elderly people or ill people.
So what this means is that because everyone has a risk of becoming ill, now rather than falling on one person and completely destroying their life, forcing them to bankruptcy, the high cost of healthcare is spread around to everybody.
Now, lots of people like myself, young people who aren't ill, might resent having this burden put upon them.
But if it means that nobody has to run the risk of having their life destroyed by an expensive surgery or something like that, then ultimately it's worth it.
Everyone has more peace of mind, even if everyone is ultimately paying a little bit more over the course of their life.
So for these reasons: because we think that it's better for people with preexisting conditions who are some of those worst off in society, because it's better for the dependents of those without insurance previously, and because it shares the risks of high health insurance costs with everyone, we think that the a CA brings more good than harm.
Thank you.