We should prohibit hydraulic fracturing.
This process, more commonly called fracking at least in the states, is when in order to extract natural gas or other fossil fuels, water is injected down into the reservoir of gas to push it up and make it easier to extract.
So we have three reasons for why it should be banned in the united states and hopefully by other countries as well.
Our first argument is that fracking is very damaging to the environment in regions where it is practiced.
There are a lot of videos online that show people in america being able to light their tap water on fire because it contains so much natural gas.
In these communities the natural gas that was forced up by injecting water has now gone through more porous rock to get into the ground water reservoir.
This means that people's drinking water and all the water in their pipes and in their house is contaminated by natural gas.
Obviously this poses a risk if it's so bad that it's flammable, but this also reduces the quality of those people's water.
The jury is still out on whether it's safe to drink, bathe, and otherwise use this water, when it's been contaminated by natural gas.
But this isn't the only harm.
When you inject water down to replace natural gas oftentimes you damage the sediment or cause it to settle.
This leads to sinkholes forming and otherwise damages the community.
We see that, for instance, if people's houses are built on top of land above a reservoir of natural gas, and it sinks because the water doesn't fill the holes in the rock in the same way that the natural gas did, that people's foundations of their homes can be destroyed and ultimately many people can be adversely affected with no opportunity for compensation because what the companies are doing is completely legal.
We think that the harms to the ground water and the risk of settling ultimately are unacceptable and that fracking ought be banned there.
Even if it's somewhat utile to be able to get to this natural gas more cheaply, we tell you that the third party harms to the people living in those communities are unacceptable.
Our second argument is that fracking leads us to be more dependent on natural gas.
Fracking recently has caused a resurgence in fossil fuel production in america especially.
We see that whereas in the mid two thousands gas and oil production in the united states was on the way down.
Now it has skyrocketed back up and the US is once more one of the world's largest producers of natural gas and oil.
What this means is that new infrastructure is being built to use all of this cheap gas and oil.
They recently built, for instance, a very controversial pipeline through downtown boston to transport natural gas.
When you build this infrastructure, you're locking us into using it in the long term.
It's too expensive to build pipelines or to build power plants that rely on gas or oil and then not use them for forty or fifty years.
They're funded by bonds that assume that they will be in use that long.
So by fracking we lock ourselves into dependence on fossil fuel for the next two generations.
Ultimately this will lead to much higher fossil fuel emissions even if natural gas pollutes less than coal.
The alternative is a world in which we don't exploit this natural gas and instead turn to greener sources of energy like ideally, nuclear power or solar power.
Our third and final argument is that we are setting up communities for failure through the natural gas boom that fracking has created.
If you think about areas like appalachia where there used to be lots of coal mining, those are now the poorest areas in the united states and some of the poorest areas in the highly developed world.
These communities are without economic opportunity because thousands of people moved there for coal jobs that no longer exist.
The same phenomenon is taking place right now with fracking.
People are rushing to areas where there's no other industry and never will be in order to work at these natural gas plants.
Ultimately we're setting those people up to live in tremendous poverty a few decades down the line when the natural gas runs out and america forgets about them.
For these reasons we should prohibit hydraulic fracking.
Thank you.