We should not subsidize journalism.
Three arguments for why we should not provide subsidies for journalism.
First, we think that this would lead to a loss of independence for the media.
This is true for a few reasons.
Everyone is beholden to the person who pays their bills and expenses.
Right now, when the media is privately funded, we see that it has much more freedom to criticize government policy than it would otherwise.
The other side might point out that organizations like the BBC criticize government in some ways.
But we tell you that, ultimately, the most scathing critiques of government policy in countries like britain that have media subsidies, rarely come from the state-owned industries.
Instead, they tend to come from the private independent media, sources like the guardian.
What we tell you is that when you subsidize media, ultimately people are going to hear the narrative that is promoted by the government instead of other narratives.
This empowers governments to make poor decisions and get away with it, this reduces accountability.
And ultimately we tell you that this is a threat to democracy.
An independent press is essential to making sure that people have information to make intelligent decisions when they vote.
In a way, the media is like a fourth pillar of a democracy, alongside the three branches of government.
When you introduce a conflict of interest, because journalist run the risk of undermining their employer by publishing certain stories, we think it's much less likely that you get controversial stories like, say, the ones about watergate, published.
Our second argument is that the government shouldn't pick winners and losers.
The other side told you that they envision the subsidies being given to some companies rather than others and that makes perfect sense.
The problem with this is that it amounts to government choosing which media companies have stability and success and which ones don't.
Consider that for a publicly funded media company, ultimately you would have more stability during things like economic downturns than a privately funded one.
We think it's quite likely that you will be more successful if you have access to these government subsidies for journalism than if you don't.
At that point, the government is effectively selecting which companies will succeed and which ones won't.
We have a few problems with this.
First of all, it requires a value judgment that we don't think the government is well-equipped to make to determine which companies deserve subsidies and which ones do not.
They have to decide which are reputable journalism, etcetera, and we think that this will always be a political decision.
For instance, donald trump might say that breitbart is reputable and the new york times is not whereas, presumably, many other people would not agree with that assessment.
But what's more, we tell you the government shouldn't intervene to choose winners and losers because it perverts the free market.
Right now, when you have a free market of media companies, good companies win out and bad companies lose out, because people don't want to consume their material.
When you have the government step in, you pervert this process and prevent bad companies from going out of business.
Our third and final argument is that this is a poor use of public funds.
Recognize that all public funds are fungible.
They could be spent on other ends than those which they are spent on.
We think it's imperative, therefore, that government take into account creating the maximum good for society when they spend money.
At the point where these subsidies probably trade off with things like greater funding for elementary schools or subsidies for attorneys for people who are accused of crimes, we tell you that ultimately this isn't the best use of our money.
Media will continue whether or not these subsidies continue to exist.
We think that the government should focus on providing services that the private market otherwise would completely fail to provide, things like attorneys for those who aren't able to afford one for themselves rather than things which the private market clearly does provide, since many countries, like the US, have thriving private media sectors and no subsidized media companies of note.
So at the end of the day, we tell you that we should not subsidize journalism.
Thank you.