Embryonic stem cell research brings more good than harm.
So I want to lay out some facts for the debate before we plunge into the arguments.
So when we talk about this type of embryonic stem cell research we mean extracting special cells called stem cells from a preimplantation human embryo.
So this is at a phase when the embryo is about one hundred cells and before it has implanted in the mother and begun to move up to the womb.
So basically this is an extremely early point in the development of the embryo before it becomes a fetus.
We see that many countries around the world there are regulations against stem cell research while other countries have encouraged it.
So with that in mind we have two arguments for you.
The first is about the utility of the medical research that is possible because of embryonic stem cell research.
So look, doctors are not out there extracting these cells at great cost and protesting to gain the right to extract these cells at great cost because they think it's cool or fun.
There are real pragmatic benefits to allowing this type of research.
We see that many doctors believe that things like novel cancer treatments that could be extremely effective will be possible as a result of this research and as a result of being able to experiment with stem cells to see what they can and can't do, and we think it's likely that ultimately we'll reach a point where you don't have to extract new stem cells every time you need to do research.
It may be possible to clone them, although the technology doesn't seem to exist right now.
So if you want to have a world where we have access to these cancer cures and we don't have to harvest these embryos we think that that's possible but you need to accept the short term harms of doing that in the status quo, but on top of that we tell you that there is a net good to society from allowing this type of research.
We tell you that it's very likely that there will be unexpected positive discoveries as a result of this embryonic research.
We see that this is been the case in the past with other forms of medical research that have turned up unexpected benefits, but aside from this, we tell you that ultimately the cancer treatments are likely to be so great that they outweigh any possible harms to pursuing this research.
So that leads me to my second argument because I think that the benefits of the medical researcher are intuitive, this is a little more complicated.
We tell you that the embryo lacks moral consideration or ought to lack moral consideration.
First of all the embryo has no humanity.
Where as you or I or a third trimester fetus all have hundreds of millions billions of cells.
We tell you that this embryo is made up of only about a hundred cells.
It is much less complex than a grape and we think that it deserves about the same level of consideration as a being of equal complexity.
We tell you that every human being alive has certain characteristics such as clearly defined organs et cetera that are completely lacking in this organism which hasn't yet implanted in the mother and which is completely unable to sustain itself in any way without her support.
But on top of that we tell you that there is a strong legal precedent for not giving rights to an embryo at this stage.
There's a medication in the states it's called plan b.
It may have different names around the world, but effectively the way it works is it prevents an embryo from implanting in the uterus.
So basically what happens is if someone has unprotected sex or is afraid they may become pregnant they can take this pill up to twenty four hours after having that sex and they won't get pregnant as a result, because it'll prevent the embryo from implanting.
So we see that it is already legal to kill this type of embryo in the status quo in many countries around the world including the united states.
We think that at the point we're allowing people to do this for their own personal good, which we firmly support on our side of the house, we don't see why you shouldn't allow people to choose to participate in medical research so that it can be done for the good of society as a whole.
This is an extension of an already existing practice that makes it even more socially utile, but even if you think that these cells do deserve some moral consideration, we think that clearly the benefits to real living people with cancer outweigh the harms to the cell that has no ability to understand suffering or feel pain.
So for these reasons we think that embryonic stem cell research brings more good than harm.