We should not ban the church of scientology.
And I'm a little amused to have this motion because yesterday, I had an interaction with some scientologists.
I was walking down a street in los angeles, and they stopped me and were trying to convince me to get my brain scanned or whatever it is that they do to you in their offices, and they were very persistent and didn't want to leave me alone.
And, at the time, I was wishing that they didn't exist, but I think I'm going to be able to present you with a few reasons for why we shouldn't ban them, even if they're distasteful to a lot of people in western society.
So, first: we think religious discrimination is a threat to personal freedom, even when we're not really sure how to treat a particular religion.
Many people, myself included, would say that scientology isn't really religion, it's a tax scam and a way to extort celebrities.
And that's probably true, given what I've learned about scientology but, unfortunately, there's no way to distinguish between a genuinely held religious belief and a scam to extort celebrities.
Even though I'm pretty sure most scientologists don't really believe what they're saying, clearly some people do, right?
They have lots of people who volunteer to go stand out in the heat and bother tourists and people trying to go grocery shopping.
But moreover, we think that you're walking a fine line if you ban scientologists because you think, " well, no one really believes all this stuff. "
You know, jehovah's witnesses are pretty disliked by many people in american society and have beliefs that it's difficult for me to believe are always genuine, but clearly many jehovah's witnesses really genuinely have this faith and think that it's something that's important to them, and they really do believe this.
So what I'm getting at here is that the government should not try to be an arbiter of what is and is not doing genuine religious faith.
So we need to take people at their word when they say that something is their religion, and accept it, and protect all religions equally, and not discriminate against people for having a fringe religion or in favor of people who are, you know, reform jewish or catholic or some more familiar religion.
Our second argument is that this would actually entrench certain hardliners and make them more extreme, right?
Scientologists already do a lot of bad things.
As sam pointed out, they've murdered people.
They had this conspiracy to steal records from the US government.
They would only be more of a threat to civil society if you made them more extreme.
If you ban scientology, most of the moderate members would probably leave the group, and the only people left would be the most radical members.
So we think that the organization would be more likely to commit crimes to try to infiltrate the government and do all these other harmful things that they've done in the past.
So, in other words, however bad the church of scientology is right now, it could always get worse if its worst elements were in charge, and that's what's likely to happen if you ban it and they have to go underground, because only the most committed people will be willing to do that.
And our final argument is about international backlash.
We think that if the united states were to ban the church of scientology and since almost all scientologists are american, I'm assuming this is set here, the global community would have much less respect for america when we talk about religious minorities elsewhere.
In the same way that most americans don't like scientologists, most iraqis probably don't like yazidis.
There are plenty of religious minorities that are discriminated against in other countries using similar logic.
So I think, ultimately, this would make it much harder for the US to advocate for protecting religious minorities from discrimination abroad.
And right now the united states, one of the few good things we do with our foreign policy is to advocate for religious minorities to be protected.
So, ultimately, we think that would be a loss for those communities and for US foreign policy.
For all these reasons, we should not ban the church of scientology.
Thank you.