We should not legalize the sale of organs.
So we have three arguments for our side: the first is about why we think it's necessary for the state to prevent this activity.
Recognize that people have difficulty getting information and understanding information about medical processes.
So we rely on doctors and other experts to inform people about what is in their own best interest in terms of their health.
The reason why it's problematic to let people sell their organs is that necessarily it's not in the medical best interest of the person selling their organ to donate it.
It could be in their financial best interest as the other side tells you, and it's almost certainly in the best interest of the recipient of that organ, but ultimately what you're asking doctors to do is to ask someone to do something that is not in their own best interest in order to help someone else.
The reason why we think that it's especially pernicious when you introduce money though is that now doctors have an incentive.
They want you to sell this organ.
Either because they're going to somehow benefit from being the ones to perform the operation or because they're going to be the ones who benefit from putting the organ into another person.
Ultimately we think there's a conflict of interests here and that that means that people won't have access to good information about whether or not they should donate their organ.
But and we think that necessarily, on top of that, that the state needs to intervene when people don't have access to good information to act on their behalf when people aren't able to do so.
But the second part of this is that we think people are going to face coercion from society when they have an organ which they're able to sell.
There's going to be an expectation, for instance, that people who are in lots of debt will now sell an organ.
We think that ultimately people are going to be coerced even if in theory it's a free choice by the societal expectation that if you need forty thousand dollars now you just sell your kidney.
We think that people are not going to be able to make a truly free choice and that the state needs to step in here to protect people's ability not to be coerced into selling their organs by forbidding it entirely.
Because so many people are going to experience this is a coercive force.
Particularly low income people for whom this is a massive sum of money.
Our second argument is that this would destroy waiting lists for organs.
Right now if you need a kidney you go on to a waiting list in your country and as soon as one becomes available the first person in line on the list receives the kidney.
What happens now when donors are selling their kidneys rather than giving them freely to people on these waiting lists?
Now, it's true that some money might be coming in or some kidneys might be coming in, but ultimately it's going to be many fewer than we have right now, and there's already a shortage of organs.
Wealthy people will be able to buy the organs that they need and ordinary people and low income people will be unable to get them, because very few organs will be going into the free system on the waiting list.
So we think that ultimately this makes receiving an organ transplant a privilege for an elite few and not something that's accessible to very many people.
Given that many of the people receiving these organs won't be the most needy in society we think that that's really problematic.
We think that for instance children and people from dis-privileged backgrounds would be much less likely to receive these organs through purchase rather than older people who have had a career, or people from more privileged strata.
Therefore, we think that we should not let people sell their organs.
Because it's unequal access to the organs.
Our third and final point is just, I want to head off an argument that I see the other team is going to make about autonomy.
Your autonomy ends at the point where it brings harms to other people.
If your autonomy is exercised in such a way that makes it difficult for needy children to get access to organs, then we think that ultimately your autonomy has to end.
Because it's infringing on the right of another person to receive that organ.
We think that ultimately this isn't really an exercise in bodily autonomy to sell one's organs because you're still free to give them up.
It's about whether or not people should be able to enter into this contract.
And we don't think that they should.
For these reasons we should not legalize organ sales.
Thank you.