We should not abolish the two party system.
So we're going to argue that in countries which have a two party governing system like the US, but also I would argue like canada, or the united kingdom, that the two party system should be continued.
So before I get into my points, tim tries to frame this as changing the united states over to a parliamentary government.
But many countries with parliamentary government still have a two party system.
In britain you have the conservatives and labor and you see similar outcomes in other countries around the world.
The real problem here is he would identify it as first pass the post voting.
So let's assume that you end up with a different form of voting system like the one used in germany, so that you end up with more parties in parliament.
With that in mind, three arguments from my side.
The first is about stability.
One of the biggest benefits to a two party system is that you always have a party that's able to form a government.
In the united states we never have to deal with the problems that they have in some other countries like germany or israel, where no party has enough seats to actually form a government and run the country.
This means that we can avoid all the problems that arise with minority governments such as a lack of legitimacy, or an inability to pass extremely necessary laws.
At the end of the day, this means that while people may not like the outcomes of our elections all the time, ultimately, one party will have enough seats to govern the country and business can continue as usual.
We tell you that ultimately stability is one of the best things that a democracy can bring people.
So that they can do business and ultimately make their own decisions and live their own lives.
So with that in mind, we think that a two party system is great because it ensures that there will be more stability because we never have minority governments.
Our second argument is that coalition formation in countries with more parties ultimately leads to very similar outcomes.
So it's true that in germany there are four right now, I think five usually in the past parties in parliament but ultimately because or parties have to form coalitions in order to govern, the outcomes aren't that different than they are in the united states or britain.
If the christian democrats and the christian socialists have to form a coalition government then that means that ultimately you get people from two different parties making demands and you end up with a compromise rather than the policies of either party being put into effect.
This doesn't seem that different than having a government in the united states where in conservative and moderate republicans have to compromise in order to run the government in theory.
So at the end of the day, even though we have only two parties in the US, the parties function like broad coalitions of people with very different interests working together.
So we have all the stability of them being in one party and the outcomes are quite similar to what you would see in a country like germany that has many parties in their parliament.
So if the outcomes are the same, we don't see any reason to overturn a system that's been working quite well for hundreds of years in the US or britain and our last point would mean be that culture in a country is important to determining who people vote for.
If your country has had a culture of lesser evilism for hundreds of years, then it's unlikely that people are going to start voting for lots of different parties.
Take britain, in the early twentieth century there were three very powerful parties in britain.
The conservatives, the liberals, who were the old left wing party and labor, who at that time were a new up and coming party.
But liberal voters started voting for labor because they thought they were preferable to the conservatives and ultimately the liberal party became more or less irrelevant.
So we see that if people are used to voting in this way then nothing changes even if you change the laws to allow for more parties.
So for all these reasons, we should not abolish the two party system.
Thank you.