We should disband unesco.
Unesco is a united nations agency that labels certain cultural sites or artifacts as very significant and tries to take steps to protect them, or at least that's what it claims to be.
In practice, it's basically just a site that provides ratings of things for tourists, effectively just declaring that something is worth or not worth visiting as a tourist.
Nations are free to ignore or listen to unesco as they wish, and it has absolutely no enforcement ability to protect sites, like petra, that had been put in danger in the past by regional violence.
So with that in mind, I think it's fairly clear why we should disband unesco, the first being that this is a poor use of united nations funds.
While it's true that unesco doesn't cost a huge amount of money every year, every dollar spent on unesco is a dollar that isn't spent on helping refugees or really needy people globally.
UN funding is fungible and also sometimes very difficult to expand.
What that means is that we need to be very careful how we allocate it.
At the end of the day, even the most precious works of architecture are still not as important as human lives.
And as long as there are people, especially refugees or stateless people, who really rely on the UN for help, then we think that it's necessary for the UN to put those people's lives and well-being ahead of protecting a bunch of works of art.
This also leads into my second point, which is that countries can do a better job protecting art, architecture, and heritage than the UN.
If this is true, then because the UN can uniquely help some people, like refugees, and countries can do a fine job protecting their own culture, then the UN ought focus on doing other things because there's no unique obligation to focus on culture.
The reason why countries can do a better job is, first of all, they can better identify what ought be protected, since they're talking about their own culture rather than having a bunch of french bureaucrats come in and do it, and secondly, because it's much more likely that they can actually enforce any protections or decisions made.
Even if the UN declares pompeii as a world heritage site, for instance, it's up to italy to decide how to preserve pompeii, how many tourists to allow to visit, what kind of conservation and archaeological efforts they want to have.
The UN itself can't actually do anything other than say, " hey, italy, this is really cool and you should protect it. "
So there's not that much value added from having unesco involved.
Moreover, we think that countries have a much stronger incentive to actually do something to protect this heritage than the UN does.
For instance, we think that mayan temple is much more valuable to mexico than it is to the global community.
So it's much more likely that mexico will focus resources on it than unesco.
And this leads into my final argument, which is that unesco prioritizes some heritage and some types of heritage over others.
We think that, for instance, certain cultures that produced very like visible, monolithic monuments are more likely to be celebrated by unesco than others.
So the aztec and the maya and the egyptians and the romans and other cultures that built really famous, impressive buildings are much more likely to get attention than groups like north american native americans, who may have not left behind massive, megalithic structures, but who still have a material culture that's worth celebrating and protecting.
But unesco tells us that the value of an ancient civilization is on how many awesome pyramids they built, not that it's valuable just because it was those people's culture and it's something that's worth studying and preserving because it's part of our common heritage.
So we think that unesco re-entrenches an idea that people already have about what makes the past valuable, and ultimately this means that certain groups get prioritized over other, and some groups just get ignored completely.
So for all of these reasons, we would disband unesco, because we think that the protection of heritage would still go on and that it would be done in a better fashion.
Thank you.