We should not cancel the pledge of allegiance.
On our side of the house, we recognize that the pledge of allegiance isn't perfect, but we think that it's still a good thing to have school children recite this every morning before their classes begin.
We're going to talk to you about how this builds unity, about how this is an educational opportunity, and about how this is something that americans are just expected to know, and therefore we need to teach it in schools.
So, first, what do we mean by the fact that this builds unity and community?
One really important thing about having students say the pledge of allegiance, all in unison, is that it creates a sense that all of the students are equally americans.
They all say the pledge and it has this kind of nationalist sentiment, and everyone in the classroom can be a part of that, regardless of whether they are tenth generation americans, whether they're black or white, or whether they've, you know, been in the country for ten days and are from another country.
This is something that can bring people together of all different races and all different religions and make everyone feel included.
It's true that some people object to the inclusion of the words " under god " as being exclusive, but we think that, generally speaking, nonreligious people aren't a persecuted group in the united states, the way that some minority religious groups are.
So we think that that's a fairly marginal harm and that most students can understand the sentiment behind it, because almost all americans do grow up with a religion.
But with that in mind, we think that not only does it encourage children to think of themselves as all the same, but also their peers.
So, for instance, we think that if you have white students who have ancestors that have been in the united states for two hundred years, it encourages them to think of their classmates, who might be the children of immigrants or immigrants, as equally american, because they're all participating in this kind of ritual together.
So we think that it's a real moment to socialize people into the idea that american is an identity that can apply to anyone regardless of their religion or skin color.
Our second point is that this is an excellent educational moment.
The pledge naturally creates a lot of questions in young people.
Why do they say the pledge of allegiance?
What does it mean?
How did it start?
What's the importance of the flag?
Why is it up in the room?
What do the different parts of it symbolize?
And this means that teachers can easily teach students about american history and about, for instance, why there are thirteen stripes for the original colonies, and why they are fifty stars for the different states, and so on.
And because of this, we think that the pledge of allegiance is a useful tool for teachers to encourage students to have a more civic mindset and more of an interest in american history.
And because of this, we think that it can be a springboard to other things that are much more important, such as creating an informed and active citizen body, which we think is one of the primary purposes of public education in a democracy.
And our final point is that this is expected knowledge.
We think that, generally speaking, schools need to be sure that students know the things they need to know to participate in society.
And because for about a hundred years now, students have been saying the pledge of allegiance, it's generally assumed that every adult american is familiar with the pledge, even if they might have forgotten a couple of the words over the decades.
We think that because of that, schools would be doing students a disservice to break them off from this tradition, that many scenes in movies that are american touchstones, that many lines in songs, that many references in political speech would be lost on them if they didn't learn the pledge of allegiance.
So we think that it's something that schools need to teach them because it's something that's always been taught.
Because this builds community, because it provides educational opportunities for teachers, and because it's something that american adults are expected to know, we should not cancel the pledge of allegiance.
Thank you.