We should not ban homeopathic medicine.
In my speech I'm going to explain first, why there's no positive need to ban homeopathic medicine and secondly, why I don't think that the standards for paternalism that sam brings up actually hold true in this case.
So first, I think that the biggest problem with the other side of this debate is that there are very few actual harms to homeopathic medicine.
Yes it's true that this doesn't really do anything it claims to do, diluting something in water doesn't magically give that water certain properties but at the end of the day, lots of people take it because it makes them feel better because of the placebo effect.
We don't think that there's anything fundamentally wrong with this especially because people are not using this to replace real medicine.
People don't rely on homeopathic medicine as a supplement or as a substitute I should say for other types of medicine.
They use it as a supplement for things like the common cold where there's no cure anyway, or for allergies that are fairly minor.
We just don't see what the actual harm is to people continuing to use these drugs.
If it makes people happy and it's not hurting anyone else, more on that in just a minute, we just don't see why there's a need to ban this.
So I think sam needs to do a lot more work to explain to you why this is actually harmful and just to get ahead of that so that he can come back and say that sometimes these drugs aren't regulated by the food and drug administration, they actually are still held to the same standards as other types of food or drink sold in the united states.
So in fact these are safe to consume because they're water, there's nothing else to them and then the second point I'd like to talk about is the standard for paternalism.
So the biggest thing I'd like to talk about here is why the information asymmetry sam mentions doesn't matter.
Sam is correct that there's an information asymmetry.
That the people using homeopathic medicine must not know that it doesn't do anything and that they're wasting their money but the mere fact that this exists isn't actually a problem.
Why?
No critical information that would harm people is being withheld by these by the manufacturers.
It's not as though they're selling poison and telling people that it's medicine.
They're just something very expensive water.
I think if you want to go after homeopathic drug or makers maybe you need to go after the people who make voss and fiji water after this, it's very similar.
So in fact there's no harm being done by this so called information asymmetry and the information being withheld is not that important to people's lives.
So I just don't think that this is a sufficient reason to ban these products.
Secondly, on third party harms.
I think the most compelling point sam gives you in favor of banning homeopathic drugs is that there are harms to third parties.
The problem is that this just isn't true.
Why?
First of all, parents aren't just going to start taking their kids to the doctor because you ban homeopathic drugs.
So the comparative world isn't any better than the world we live in.
But secondly, I don't think that there actually are third party harms.
The types of conditions that people use homeopathic medicines for tend to be very minor or things for which there is no cure.
So at that point there's no real harm being done to children or elderly people who are given these homeopathic drugs by a caretaker.
The last thing that sam talks about is this power imbalance and how the government is the only actor that is able to make this decision.
But I don't think there actually is a huge power imbalance between the consumers and the producers in this particular instance.
Why?
Well first of all because consumers don't need this.
The demand is very elastic so they do have a lot of control over the producers and secondly, because this is a luxury good that just doesn't really matter to most people's lives.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban homeopathic medicine.
Thank you.