We should not ban genetically modified crops.
So we're going to argue that the status quo should continue for the use of genetically modified crops, that companies should be able to introduce new strains of crops, like wheat or bananas, and that they should be sold in stores, maybe with labels, maybe not, according to local laws.
Our first point, and this is really just the only point that matters in this debate, is that genetically modified crops are harmless.
There is no demonstrated evidence that there is any potential harm to consuming genetically modified crops.
Virtually every plant you eat in your life is genetically modified in some way.
Bananas, for instance, don't even exist in nature.
The wild version of a banana bears absolutely no resemblance to the product that we eat every day.
This is something that was genetically modified very slowly, over hundreds of years, by the native americans.
So, there's no real difference between a crop that's modified relatively quickly today on a scientific farm versus what the native americans were doing hundreds of years ago.
The same is true of corn which I've seen wild corn and it's not yellow, and it's tiny, and you couldn't really eat it, but it's been genetically modified over time to be safe to eat.
So we see that this is something that's been done throughout human history, and I challenge the other side to provide any example of a plant that hasn't been genetically modified, which we eat.
This is a ridiculous burden to set and ultimately, no one is going to be able to eat anything if we can't eat genetically modified crops.
With that in mind, though, even if you don't think that's enough to win the debate, genetically modified crops have saved billions of lives, and that's not an exaggeration, in the last hundred years.
There's a particular strain of wheat which was developed in order for mexican farmers to have more profitable crops in about the nineteen sixties.
And this particular strain of wheat is very hardy and produces more grain than aerated streams of wheat.
So it's now been planted around the world all over sub-saharan africa, everywhere from botswana to south africa, and in countries like india as well, and because of this, global grain output has increased astronomically, and there is basically never been a failed wheat crop since these dwarf wheat strains were introduced.
As a result of this, everyone who would normally have died in a famine because remember, before the twentieth century, famines were extremely commonplace and killed millions of people, everyone who would normally have died of a famine is still alive and is able to lead a life where there have enough to eat.
There have been almost no famines in the last fifty years.
That's why the one in ethiopia was so widely publicized, and ultimately this is because of genetically modified crops.
The only reason that billions of people are alive today is because they're able to grow enough food, thanks to genetically modified crops.
And if you ban them, you are condemning billions and that is not an exaggeration, billions with a " b" people to death due to starvation, which is fundamentally unacceptable.
What we need is more genetically modified crops so that we can increase food security even further, not to return to old crops that couldn't meet our needs.
And our final argument, even if you don't buy that, is that governments are awful at picking what should and should not be allowed to be sold.
At the point where we have two crops which are safe to consume, we think the government is going to be unable to make a fair decision for what counts as genetically modified and what doesn't.
If I breed a new type of avocado in my backyard, is that going to be allowed, whereas a type of avocado that's developed in a lab might not be?
Ultimately, we think that the dividing lines are going to be very arbitrary and that governments will be choosing which businesses succeed and which ones fail, with no regard for science or actual evidence.
We think that this would be grossly unfair to people who have, in good faith, invested their money in the businesses that develop these new types of crops and therefore, that the state should not intervene to take action against them.
For all these reasons, we should not ban genetically modified crops.
Thank you.