Assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.
So I wanna be clear what we're talking about.
Assisted suicide is when a doctor or a medical professional facilitates someone ending their own life.
So normally this is going to be someone with a terminal illness and the doctor is going to get them some medication or something that will end their life and give it to them and facilitate their ability to use this if they're having difficulty doing so because they're so close to the end of their life.
We think that there should be a criminal offense for the medical professional, not for the person seeking to end their own life.
Three arguments, the first, is that this is a clear breach of medical ethics.
Doctors in particular are sworn under the hippocratic oath in most countries to do what they can to protect and preserve life and to help people to recover from illness.
Obviously there is a breach of this oath when they are facilitating suicide.
We tell you that doctors are encouraging someone to do something that is actively damaging to their health.
It doesn't matter if this is what the person wants.
I wanna be very clear about that.
Society all the time forces people to get medical treatment that they don't want.
We institutionalize people, we put them in rehabilitation programs.
It's clear that people's medical care is provided by society whether they want it or not.
We think that one reason why this is the case is because people who are ill or addicts or otherwise in a difficult position, aren't capable of making the best decision for themself.
You need someone who is unbiased and not in that type of position to make a decision for them and it should be a doctor, and that doctors should try to administer the kind of help that they need rather than give them this kind of very ultimately damaging procedure.
Our second argument is about perverse incentives.
I think it's unfortunate but money is always a part of healthcare decisions.
In countries like the united states, people are denied care because they're unable to pay.
In countries like britain and canada, services that are available to the very rich aren't available to lower income people because the government health care service can't afford to pay for them.
As an example of this people often wait months at a time for MRI's in europe or in canada which would be available same day in the united states at a much higher price.
So if there's already a perverse incentive for insurance companies to encourage doctors not to offer certain treatments because they're expensive, then I think that there's a horrible perverse incentive to offering to legalize doctors killing a patients.
As an insurance company, why would you ever want to pay out to help someone in terminal care?
This is a person who will never pay premiums again, who will never repay medical debts, and who is costing you a lot of money because end of life care is actually the most expensive type of care in the medical system in the US and I presume other countries as well right now.
So insurance companies now have a huge perverse incentive to not give doctors any alternative other than a physician assisted suicide.
In other words, they will cover physician assisted suicide and no other alternative so that doctors will be forced into this and patients will have their hands forced and we think that is unacceptable, but insurance companies are such a coercive entity that they'll be able to do this and also to lobby and get away with it at a governmental level.
Our last argument is that nobody can make an intelligent decision about death other than to remain alive.
Why is this true?
No one knows what death is like.
I remember at the end of plato's apology when socrates says if death is but a dreamless slumber then I won't be so sorry to have died at all and if death means going down to hades and speaking with the ancients that it won't be such a terrible thing.
But to this day nobody actually knows what happens when you die.
It might be the case that the christians are right and suicide means that you go to hell.
It might be the case that nothing happens at all, but the point is that in the face of a total lack of information, you shouldn't make a very drastic irreversible decision.
Suicide is a permanent solution to what may turn out to be a temporary problem and we don't think it should ever be an option for that reason.
Therefore assisted suicide should be a criminal offense for the doctor.
Thank you.