We should subsidize higher education, and the standard that we're going to set this round is that in countries which currently subsidize secondary and primary education we think that higher education should be treated in the same way.
So for instance, in a country like the united states or canada, where secondary education is completely free at the point of use and no one pays money to attend public high schools, we think no one should pay any money to pay public colleges as well.
So we would have the state completely fund tuition at public universities.
So this wouldn't include private institutions like harvard, it would be more for public institutions like say the university of michigan, and schools like that.
So with this in mind we have three arguments.
First is the idea of education as a right.
Presumably, countries that already provide secondary education free of charge recognize that people have a fundamental right to education.
We think it is arbitrary for there to be a line in the sand at age eighteen that says before this point you have a right to education, and afterwards you do not.
We think that people have a right to learn the skills they need to succeed in life, and that this is why we educate in the first place.
On top of that, we tell you that education as a right was established in many countries in the early twentieth century when primary schools became free, but over time the educational expectations for citizens have changed.
A secondary education used to be a really high level of education in nineteen hundred, but today it's seen as normal in most countries.
So we think that a similarly high bar would actually be to provide tertiary education to people, and therefore in order to be consistent with the original goals of the secondary education movement, we should also provide free at point of use higher education as well.
And on top of that, if individuals such as children have a right to be educated, you could only facilitate that through the education of others.
You need teachers, you need informed parents in order to best educate the next generation, and we think that you can only access that if people are able to go to college, and obviously many more people can go and get a university or college education if it is subsidized the same way that secondary school is.
Our second point is about the economic impacts of this policy.
Now, it's absolutely true that in the short term, government spending will go up.
I think that when bernie sanders ran for president he said it would cost a few tens of billions of dollars to pay for this in the short term in the united states, so probably less in smaller countries.
We tell you, however, that workers will earn more because they'll be able to be more productive and they'll be more specialized.
We tell you that people who are more educated are able to use different techniques to achieve more in the workplace and also that their higher education allows them to fill jobs that otherwise would go empty.
So they can specialize more, and the economy is ultimately much better off.
We tell you that as these people earn more because they're being more productive, the economy will also grow.
They are earning more because the economy as a whole is getting larger and they're contributing more to it.
This means that more people will pay taxes, people who would, in the status quo, not be working, or not be able to produce very much, so they would actually be receiving money back instead of giving money, would now be paying in taxes, and on top of that, there would be more prosperity for all.
People who cannot work, such as the elderly, children, people who are pregnant for instance, would all actually receive a higher quality of life if the society as a whole is more prosperous and more people are paying in money than there is a greater amount of wealth to share around for everyone in need, so those people would be better off as well.
We think that for this reason even the people who don't go to college will be better off because their social safety net will be better.
With this in mind, investing in highly subsidized higher education seems like an excellent investment.
We think that the return in terms of economic growth will be greater than almost any other investment that a government could make.
Our last argument is about the social impact of this highly subsidized education.
We think that people who go to university are better able to be informed voters because they have a better understanding of the history that surrounds events, and also things like critical reading and critical writing, and in general have more access to information than people with only a secondary education.
We therefore think that they will make more intelligent decisions when they vote, so we'll have better government.
We also think that they're likely to be better citizens because we can encourage more civic education, and because they'll be better able to appreciate the importance of their civic duties.
Because of this, we think that ultimately everyone will be better off in society.
And lastly, we think that you'll have a more equal society if you offer this type of free education, because even low income or disempowered people will be more able to access higher education now, so at the end of the day this will be less of a privilege of the elite and more accessible to everybody.
For these reasons, I am proud to suggest that we should subsidize higher education.