We should not increase the fuel tax.
In on in my speech, I'm going to explain to you, first, why increasing the fuel tax is bad because the fuel tax is regressive, which I think directly contradicts many of the arguments sam gave you about why this is a good tax to have and, secondly, about why fuel demand is inelastic and therefore, this won't have any effect on people's behavior, as sam tells you that it will.
So, first, why is this regressive and what does that mean?
A regressive tax is one that disproportionately taxes people with low income rather than high income.
Any tax that exists at a flat rate is regressive.
Why?
Well, the marginal value of a dollar is much greater to someone who has a low income than someone who has a high income.
If somebody lives at a poverty level wage, then every additional dollar is extremely valuable to them, whereas for jeff bezos or bill gates, every additional dollar is basically meaningless.
So we think that it's only fair to have taxes that are progressive, that are higher for wealthier people, so that those who are less well-off can pay a lower tax, because their money is much more valuable to them.
But a fuel tax is basically a flat tax on a good that everyone has to consume.
If you have a ten cent per gallon fuel tax, let's say, very low, then that would be a much greater burden to a single mother who has a poverty level wage than it would be to a middle-class banker.
So we think that this type of tax is just fundamentally unfair.
Rather than increase it, we think that the fuel tax should be abolished altogether, that it's fundamentally regressive to have taxes on people's consumption in this way.
If you didn't want to have consumption taxes or to curb people's conception of fuel, we think that those taxes should be placed on luxury goods rather than on the necessities of life.
And the fact that fuel is a necessity of life leads nicely into our second argument about why there's an inelastic demand for fuel.
Sam's main contention in his speech is that we should have fuel taxes because it will discourage people from consuming more fuel.
So, essentially, he argues that people will drive fewer miles, that people will burn less natural gas to heat their homes if there's a higher fuel tax, and I think that would be true except that people don't really control their need for these things.
People have to drive to work every day, people have to go get their kids, people have to keep their homes at a safe temperature in the wintertime, and these are things that people don't really control.
Even if you raise the fuel tax, most people aren't going to be able to drive less.
Right?
Most people, especially lower-class people, don't just choose to drive for the heck of it, because it's so expensive, especially in countries like britain that already have very high prices for gasoline.
We think that at the end of the day, people are just going to have to spend more of their income on fuel, while consuming the same amount.
So you're not actually reducing people's emissions, and you're taking money out of the pockets of the people who can least afford to bear that burden, and that's the main problem that we have with the reasoning of sam's speech.
On their side, they need to explain to you how they're actually able to change people's behavior, and I don't think that they'll be able to do so, because you can't force people to consume less of a good when that demand is inelastic.
Fuel is, at the end of the day, a necessity for people, just like food or water.
People can't just choose to consume less of it.
So we think that it actually wouldn't have any effect on people's behavior.
We think that it would create a huge amount of resentment among the people who would have to pay a higher price, especially the poor and, moreover, that this would only pressure consumers to engage less with the rest of the economy if you made it more expensive for them to do so.
So even if you do believe sam's arguments that there is some amount of driving people could cut out, this would ultimately trade off with people's consumption of other goods.
For all of these reasons, we should not increase the fuel tax.
Thank you.