International volunteering brings more harm than good.
So what are we talking about in this debate?
International volunteering takes a few different forms, but the one that we have in mind for this debate is one where citizens of a wealthy country travel to a poorer country to volunteer.
So this is really common for instance for americans to go on mission trips from the united states down to central america, places like honduras, and build schools and houses and things like that, and try to help those people by bringing in their skills and resources from the US, to a country like honduras or nicaragua with much lower level of resources and much less human development.
So we have two reasons why we think that these programs bring more harm than good on aggregate.
First, higher costs.
Imagine providing training to people in order to, say, build a school.
You probably have to teach people how to install plumbing and drywall, how to put a roof up, how to build a frame, et cetera.
So it seems like it would always be better to train one local rather than ten tourists in a row.
For instance, if you train one honduran how to build the frame of a school building, he stays in that community and he lives in that town and knows how to build the frame for a large building.
And ultimately he will be able to do much more good than a sequence of americans would, because he's part of that community and he can teach those skills to others, and he'll remain in the area for a long time, and maybe teache his children how to do those skills, and ultimately make the whole community better off because he is now a source of human development, he is a person who has skill who is part of that area and is going to stay there long term.
Versus, a long sequence of visitors who either have to be trained on the spot at his expense, or who bring in these skills but don't pass them along.
Recognize that usually what these visitors do isn't educate locals about how to build a school, they just build the school.
Which means that even if the net result of having this building in places there it would be better to have an individual with that skill to stay in the community and educate others rather than just to bring in a rich american or a rich european who has those skills, and will use them without teaching anyone else.
Remember, if you give someone a fish, they eat for a day, if you teach them to fish, they eat for a lifetime.
So next, we think there's also higher cost because providing for these visitors is going to be more expensive than providing for locals.
Bringing in someone from within your own country for instance to work on building a school, might require a lower level of service them bringing in americans.
If you bring in people from wealthy countries they have certain expectations about quality of life and food and toilet facilities and things like that, it makes it much more expensive to house them and care for them than housing and caring for people who are more used to the standards of this community.
So we think all that money would be better spent on investing in the community rather than making a bunch of american high schoolers more comfortable while they build a house.
Our second point is about promoting harmful narratives.
We think that this voluntourism, brings in the notion that americans and europeans can just fly around the world and solve everybody else's problems.
But this obviously isn't true.
In order to solve problems in the long term, you need solutions from people in the community.
We think that you're less likely to get that if you create these bandaid solutions by bringing in tourist rather than relying on local people.
One reason this has to be true is that, bringing in these foreigners isn't sustainable.
They come, they visit, they stay, maybe they know the language, maybe they don't, and then they leave after a few months or years at the absolute most, and many of them leave sooner.
So this creates a notion that these problems are easy to solve even though they aren't, they're endemic and no one has been able to solve them in the past.
And also it creates a notion by visitors that they've made an enormous change to these people's lives, that those people couldn't make on their own.
We think that this is condescending and promotes this narrative that the visitors are superior to the people that they help.
So at the end of the day, we think that there are higher costs to providing services using these international volunteers, and that it promotes harmful stereotypes and bad narratives.
So for these reasons, it brings more harm than good.
Thank you.