We should not implement national service in the united states.
Three reasons for this: first, we think that individuals always know their own preferences and interests better than the state knows them.
Right now many young people do choose to go into public service after they graduate from high school or college.
There are about three million members of the US military, that's about one percent of the population, all of whom volunteered to be there.
On top of that, thousands of young people join programs like americore, where they go around the world and serve others, or programs like city year, where they stay in underpriveleged communities in the united states to help out there.
And this is hundreds of thousands more people in addition to those who serve in the military.
So we already see that a significant portion of young people are choosing to go in to public service in some way.
At that point we don't think that the state needs to do anything to force people to do this.
Danny tries to tell you that ultimately this is going to be a solution to things like youth unemployment and provide people with more opportunities, but we think that young people can make their own decisions about whether it's worth it to give up part of their earning years, by taking very low paying jobs, the military pays a pittance compared to what you can make working a regular job, and in terms of the skills that they want to achieve.
Most people who join the military do gain some sort of useful skills, but many people in other programs like americore really don't.
So at that point we think that people can make their own decisions.
The fact that most people would rather go and work in the private sector and make more money and choose the skills that they develop seems unsurprising to us since people, generally speaking, know how they want to self actualize, know what they're comfortable with, and that they'd rather do those things rather than have uncle sam tell them what's best for them.
We think that individual choice should always be maximized whenever possible because individuals will ultimately make better decisions for themselves than the state can make on their behalf.
Our second argument is that it is forces people to make unethical or immoral decisions when you put them into national service.
Daniel tries to present this to you as though people would have the choice about where to serve, but we think that's probably not true.
Even in other countries that have national service, many people are not able to get into non military service because there are fewer of those jobs.
We tell you that many people, if you wanted to have all ten million or whatever young people there are in the united states do this, are going to have to go into the military, and that at that point they're going to have to do deeply unethical things.
Because at the end of the day the US war machine is doing terrible things in the middle east and other parts of the world right now.
Even if you sit at a desk pushing papers around you're still facilitating people committing war crimes in afghanistan, or bombing civilians in yemen.
We think that it's deeply troubling for the government not only to do those things, but also to force innocent people to be complicit in those crimes, whereas right now they have to opt into it.
We think that you should never force people into these kind of decision making processes.
Even if you thought that the US actions abroad our ethical, which seems tendentious, but even if you did, we think that many people, for religious or other reasons, do not, and that those people shouldn't be forced to participate in the military system.
Our third and final argument is that the burden of the service is going to fall unfairly on the poor and people of color.
We saw this during the vietnam war, that wealthy white people basically just kept going to college until they were too old for public service.
Daniel tries to tell you that people are going to be able to do this after things like law school, but we think it's likely that privileged wealthy white people will find a way to avoid doing their service.
They'll all turn out to be suspiciously flatfooted or otherwise medically unfit for instance.
At that point, this is basically a policy that takes away working years from people of color and low income people and forces them to bear a huge burden for the national good, that doesn't really accrue uniquely to their community.
So we think it's unethical to make those people bear these costs more highly than others and that there's no way that that isn't what will happen.
So for these reasons we should not have national service in the united states.
Thank you.