We say that you should not ban fast food.
We have two main arguments for you.
One is that we think this is principally unfair, and two that we think that fast food is not necessarily such a bad thing.
So with regards to principle consistency.
We think that the law needs to be fair to different types of businesses and ought not pick out favorites and punish other companies unfairly.
Fundamentally the law relies on everyone buying in and assuming that it's legitimate, and if you use it to punish one type of business while allowing other businesses to commit similar offenses, then people will see that the law is arbitrary and not just and put less stock in it, and we think that's tremendously dangerous for society.
So with that in mind, I'd like to point out that even if this debate isn't necessarily about candy, we tell you that lots of products are as bad as fast food.
Why don't we ban soda?
Why don't we ban candy?
For that matter, why not ban beer and cigarettes, which are probably much worse than fast food for people's health.
If you were going to stand up and say that you need to ban a product because it's unhealthy, then you need to ban all products that are similarly unhealthy and not productive for society.
But we don't think anyone would do that, because at the end of the day people want to these products.
I think that's tremendously important that the reason why things like fast food and cigarettes exist is that people want to buy them.
We think that the government shouldn't pick winners and losers in industry.
Instead it should help people to make more educated choices.
Many people who eat lots of meals at fast food restaurants, like mcdonald's or burger king, may not understand how awful it is for their health, or may not understand what other options they have to get affordable food or to get quick food.
We tell you that at this point, rather than ban fast food, the government should step in to make healthier options more available and to educate people about how to eat a healthier diet and how to do it quickly and easily.
But we also think, as our second point, that fast food is not a bad thing in and of itself.
The other team, in order to defend the sort of categorical ban where there is no more traditional fast food, needs to explain to you why it's always a bad thing, because otherwise we think there are many instances when people could consume it in a perfectly reasonable way.
You know, the occasional chicken nugget or cheeseburger is not going to kill you, and a healthy adult who exercises and mostly eats healthy can definitely eat these things and not have it be a bad thing.
And the same is true of children, that if they occasionally go to mcdonald's while they're on a long car trip or something like that, it's not going to be the end of the world.
The big reason why this food exist is that there is a demand for convenient food.
The other team says, oh well maybe we'll get things like salad bars and chicken breast more easily available.
But society isn't going to change the way it exists just because you ban fast foods, there's still going to be a need for food that is easy to eat on the go.
This is a tremendously liberating thing for people that they don't have to worry about where they're going to get their next meal anytime they travel, or if they're very busy because they work the third shift and they have to get their kids from school, they know that something will be available even if it's not ideal.
And we think letting people have this fallback is really empowering for people who don't have a lot of time to spend worrying about food because they work too much or they're very busy.
We also tell you that the other team can't just that call it out there's going to be better replacements, and that they're not offering any real replacement, they just say that oh, there will be more things like salad bars and healthy restaurants.
But these things exist anyway, if you walk around the streets of any major city you'll find fast healthy options, the problem is that it's much more expensive than mcdonald's, because you can't make a healthy chicken and avocado sandwich for two dollars, but mcdonald's could put together some sort of, who knows what, cheeseburger for that amount of money.
We think that adults are fundamentally able to choose for themselves and recognize that sometimes their best interest is to have a full belly, even if it's not the healthiest way.
We think that people likely are going to turn to other unhealthy alternatives also because they're cheap.
Things like instant noodles and microwave pizza aren't going to be much better for children.
So even if you buy their point about third party harms, we think that the alternatives won't be better and that this isn't a magic silver bullet to solve childhood obesity.
So for these reasons we think that you should not ban fast food.