We should subsidize single parents.
In this speech, I'm going to explain to you why benefits that accrue uniquely for single parents are something that should exist in society today.
So with that in mind, we have three arguments.
Our first point is that because single parents face unique challenges, they deserve unique help to meet those challenges.
The most obvious example of a unique challenge that faces single parents is something that tim actually brought up in his own speech, which is that one person simply has fewer hours in the day than two people.
If you're a single parent, even if you have a good job, like if you're a teacher or a doctor, you still have much less time to spend with your children than a two-parent household would have.
So you need to ensure that you, first of all, have access to childcare for single parents and also that you have access to quality activities and role models for these children to participate in, because their parent will have less time to devote to them.
So we think that, for instance, as massive subsidy on childcare for single parents is simply a necessity, because through no fault of their own these people simply can't be home as often as you could be home in a two-parent household.
And what's more, we also think it's important that we're able to get these children into the best possible childcare.
Going and staying with a relative or playing in a church basement might be fine if your parents are waiting for you at the end of the day, but we think it's important that you're in a type of child care that gives you meaningful exposure to good role models, something tim also pointed out, and to provide you with access to different activities and experiences that you might miss out on because of your situation if you're a child of a single parent.
So, ultimately, we don't just need more child care, but also that childcare is much more important to these children.
But the second thing we point out is that you need better education, because you simply just have less access to certain educational opportunities if your parents can't spend as much time educating you at home.
You will likely learn to read later, not have anyone to help you with your homework, and that kind of thing.
So it's important that we give these children extra educational opportunities so that they can go on to go to university and get a good job at the end of the day.
Our second argument is that these subsidies are a necessary evil.
Now it's true what tim says that it is better for children to grow up in a two-parent household than a single-parent household, but that's simply not always practical.
Sometimes one parent is deceased or that person is too irresponsible to be allowed around their children.
Through no fault of their own, people can end up as single parents.
And I think what's important to remember is not only are some of these parents blameless, but all of the children are.
No child deserves to have a lower quality of life just because their parents are divorced or one of their parents is deceased.
So, ultimately, we need to help these people who are at risk, through no fault of their own.
We think that that's a very clear case when almost anyone would want someone to help them and therefore, we ought to help others.
If you think about the golden rule to do unto others as you would have them do unto you, I think it very clearly applies here.
And our final argument is simply that this is best for the children.
Even if these parents aren't necessarily those who most need assistance, let's say they're middle-class families, the parents are a doctor or something and they don't need the financial assistance, it's still important that we get as much help to these children as possible.
Ultimately, this isn't about helping the parents at the end of the day, although it will help them too and we're happy to do that.
It's about creating the best life for these children and creating subsidies so that after-school programs or childcare, first of all, that these businesses open and, second of all, that they're able for people to access them.
Doing this is ultimately going to be what's best for these children terms of allowing them to get a good education and to have a good childhood, and we think that those benefits outweigh any financial harms that the other side brings up.
Thank you.