Organ donation should not be mandatory.
So basically, our line of argumentation today is going to be that individuals have a certain amount of autonomy that the government ought not violate.
Three big arguments for you: the first is about people with religious objections to this policy.
We tell you that many religious groups, like some sects of judaism and islam, require that people not be partaking in organ donation.
That they be buried hole in cemeteries without having this kind of autopsies done.
And we think that it would be fundamentally be unfair for the state to force these people to one, go through the angst and fear about going to hell because of a government policy, and two, not be able to practice their religion as much as other people are.
We think that it's wrong for the state to force whatever effectively christian norms on members of other religions.
Just because certain groups don't think that there's any value to having your body buried completely intact doesn't mean that it's not extremely important for others.
We think therefore that it should not be mandatory, at the very least, for people who practice these religions.
Our second argument is about bodily autonomy.
We tell you that, in general, it's an accepted part of society and moral norms, that individuals have the right to control their own body.
We see that people can't be compelled to do work for other people, that people can't be compelled to make changes to their body for the good of other people in general throughout society.
We don't think that this should change for organ donations.
Although it's certainly true that people should be doing this in terms of it being moral, we think that at the end of the day people have a right to make their own decisions about how to use their own body, and that the state ought not intervene.
We think it will be a tremendous overstepping of the government's role in society to force people to have these very invasive procedures done, which would also be to their detriment.
Recognize that if you give up in organ, that means necessarily that you don't benefit from it later down the line.
You might even have to receive an organ donation potentially.
We just don't think that it is up to the government to decide what is in people's best interest in this respect.
Our third and final argument is that this is a burden that falls more heavily on some groups than others.
So let's think about the types of organs that tend to get donated.
It's going to be primarily kidneys, because people can donate them safely and because they're relatively high in demand.
We see that when you try to match a kidney, obviously you need an organ donor who has the same blood type as the recipient.
But we also see that certain blood types are able to donate organs to more other blood types.
Like o negative people can give their kidney to anybody, whereas AB positive people can only give their kidney to another AB positive person, which is the rarest blood type.
So we see that in effect this is going to fall much more heavily on people with o negative blood types, who make about twenty five percent of the population.
We think that's unfair that you have this really invasive policy that is falling more heavily on some people because of an intrinsic characteristic.
It's not like people choose their blood type.
Since there's no way to do this fairly, we don't think that the government ought to do it at all.
If you can't spread a burden around because some people, due to an intrinsic characteristic, would have that burden fall more heavily upon them, then we think that perhaps the state shouldn't impose such a burden in the first place.
We're okay with increasing enrollment in postmortem organ donation.
We're okay with having organ donation drives and things like that, but we think that ultimately it is immoral to compel people to donate their organs.
So for these reasons we tell you that organ donation should not be mandatory.
Thank you.