We should not protect the right to internet access.
By this we mean to say that there is no right to internet access.
We think that the government should be free to regulate access to content online as they see fit in keeping with democratic will.
So we're not arguing for some sort of a great fire wall like china house because we don't think that that's what the public actually wills in any country, but we do think certain content should have limited access.
Our first argument is about speech that would be banned elsewhere.
Countries like germany, which have hate speech laws, should be able to enforce those laws online as well.
We think that citizens of a country should be held to the same standard online as offline.
We think that if people are using the internet to spread things like holocaust denial, or racist propaganda, or other horrible materials which are illegal in a country like germany, that first of all, the poster should be punished just like they would if they were spreading this information in the town square, because ultimately it's still in the public sphere and that two, the state should be able to limit people's access to such information if it's hosted abroad.
So when the united states you can say basically anything up to the point of extreme intent to incite violence and it's protected.
Which means that lots of racist or antisemitic or islamophobic websites are based in the united states even if they have a european target audience.
We think that countries in the EU should be free to limit citizens access to these websites using techniques similar to the great firewall of china in order to prevent the proliferation of holocaust denial or other illegal information in that country.
Ultimately, we think that this will be productive for the same reasons that limiting public speech generally is namely, preventing people from being made to feel unsafe.
Our second point is that there's no actual positive right to access the internet.
People don't have a right to use any particular medium to express themselves.
Consider that while a hundred years ago people had the right to freedom of speech in the country like england they didn't have any right to publish books, they didn't have any right to print newspapers.
Ultimately, they had to earn that right.
We see that information that might have been harmful to the war effort in world war one was censored, that information that was seen as possibly overthrowing the government or threatening certain groups in society was censored.
So ultimately there is a long tradition of limiting people's freedom of speech when it has certain harms.
What the other side would have to do in this debate is explain to you why there's a unique right to access information online.
But there's none such.
All rights to internet access have to piggyback on freedom of speech and since people don't have a right to print whatever they want or to say whatever they want, it doesn't follow that they should be able to access or post any information they want on the internet.
And our third and final point is that this is ultimately completely separate from freedom of speech.
So this is similar to what I said in the last point but what's important here is that ultimately, the government isn't supposed to prevent people from expressing certain types of speech overall, but it can prevent them from having a space to do so.
What do I mean by this and how is it different?
In my last point I talked about why certain types of information might need to be banned and this one I'd like to give a sort of metaphor.
Imagine you are a city and people apply for a protest and you think that protest might be disruptive in your city.
You can't prevent these people from talking about their ideas in their day to day lives but you don't have to give them the bandstand in the city park in order to promote them.
Ultimately, the internet functions a lot like a physical space.
You don't have to give people the right to create space online to talk about certain points even if you don't prevent them from talking about them in their personal lives.
For all these reasons, we should not protect the right to internet access.
Thank you.