We should protect whistleblowers.
We would argue that people like chelsea manning or edward snowden who, in good faith, release government secrets or corporate secrets to the media ought have legal protections that would prevent them from being sent to jail or otherwise punished for their actions.
Obviously, we would have to have some sort of standard for when someone is a legitimate whistleblower versus an illegitimate one, but we think that that standard should be generous in order to encourage people to blow the whistle when they see something bad going on.
We have three arguments for our side this evening.
The first is that whistleblowers create accountability for the powerful.
The types of organizations that people blow the whistle on are those which have relatively little accountability to the public.
For instance, the national security agency, or NSA, in the united states was illegally spying on the american people and foreign citizens as well, using a massive spying apparatus that no one outside of that agency could even have believed existed before the edward snowden leaks.
Edward snowden saw what was going on and knew that it was illegal and that it was violating people's rights in the US and abroad and felt that he had to do something.
When he leaked that information to the guardian and other newspapers, that provided accountability for the first time for the NSA to the american people and for the american government to its allies that it was spying upon.
There would have been no way that the american people could know about the spying program and no way that countries like germany could know the extent of US spying in allied countries without this leak.
So the only way that people are able to vote for new policies, to react differently to their allies, to improve their own security is because of the edward snowden leak.
So this has created the accountability that otherwise would never have existed, because groups like the american government, and the NSA in particular, have no incentive to reveal when they break the law to people.
It's only when it is shown against their will that it will become clear, so they take steps to prevent people from revealing this information, and that's why we need to protect whistleblowers: so that they can't cover this kind of thing up.
Our second argument is that if you don't protect whistleblowers, you create a chilling effect on future leakers.
Let's imagine that in the future, there's some major violation of human rights or decency by the US government.
Because chelsea and edward have been treated so poorly by the american government, snowden is hiding at an airport abroad and chelsea manning was kept in jail for years without trial, ultimately it's very clear that the next person who sees these kind of abuses will not come forward, because they'll be afraid of going to jail or being exiled from the US and never able to see their family again.
So this chilling effect means that we lose out on that accountability and that people aren't people to speak up when they see abuses, whether that be in intelligence or in the military or in industry, for instance, with the panama papers, where people revealed abuses being conducted by business leaders and the super wealthy.
Because of the reaction to the panama papers, future people might be less likely to leak, even when legitimate crimes are going on.
And our third and final argument is that other types of information breach will replace the whistleblower, and ultimately that would be worse.
So if I had information that I knew I had to get to the public and I couldn't go to a major newspaper as a legitimate whistleblower, I might, for instance, send that information to a foreign government or sell it to a rival corporation, because I know that something has to be done, but the most legitimate avenue that I have to take action, going to the media, is no longer available to me because of the way the state cracks down on whistleblowers.
So it's more likely that people will do things like send western information to russia or sell out their company in a world where we punish whistleblowers.
For all these reasons, we should protect whistleblowers.
Thank you.