We should disband the united nations.
So what we're defending in this debate is for member countries in the UN to voluntarily leave until eventually the organization no longer exists.
And we acknowledge that this would be unlikely but when we say we should, we mean that we think this would be a better world than the one that we live in right now.
We're fine with other international organizations like the world trade organization, the IMF or the world bank continuing to exist.
We think that the problems that we have with the UN are unique to that organization.
We also think, before we get into our three arguments, that it's likely that groups like unesco would be able to continue to exist as independent organizations even if the main united nations were broken up.
So with that in mind, three arguments for why we think it would be a better world without the UN.
First, the united nations is fundamentally undemocratic.
If you think about the structure of the united nations, it gives five countries total control over what the others are allowed to vote on.
The security council, which was set up after world war two and hasn't been adjusted since, has a an effective veto over any policy that the united nations is allowed to take.
At that point we see that countries like the US can hold the rest of the voting body hostage.
We see that for instance almost every other country around the world wants to censure israel for their treatment of the palestinians but the united states is able to intervene and prevent any action from being taken.
Similarly, russia has been able to get away with their actions in the ukraine because they can veto any UN action that would put a stop to the invasion of crimea.
But second under this, is that the UN is fundamentally a dictator's club.
Remember that people like saddam hussein and muammar gaddafi used to sit on the UN panel for human rights.
We see that because the UN general body is majority vote that ultimately countries with no interest in human rights or democracy are able to dominate the united nations.
Dictators are regularly the appointed to oversee human rights, countries which pollute the environment are appointed to oversee clean development, etcetera.
Everyone has an incentive to vote for other countries like themselves and since only a minority of countries are liberal democracies this means that illiberal or undemocratic countries will always control the UN.
Now obviously they can't do anything too important because of the security council, but remember that two of the members of the security council are also illiberal countries.
You have russia, which is semi-democratic and china, which is an open dictatorship.
Our second argument is that the united nations is ultimately ineffective.
So if you consider the conflicts in the world since world war two, many of them have been quite large.
Think about the iran iraq war.
This had huge tank battles, chemical weapons, child soldiers, everything that you would expect to see in on a front in world war two or in world war one.
But this happened while the UN was around.
Why?
The united nations is actually powerless to stop its member nations from going to war.
The UN was sold to member countries as a way to prevent conflict, but it has ultimately failed to do so.
Powerful countries like the united states can invade weaker countries like iraq or vietnam at will.
Pariah countries like iran can attack their neighbors like iraq whenever they ultimately wish to.
In places like rwanda, where the UN doesn't have a clearly staked interest, UN soldiers stood by and watched a genocide happened and actually did nothing.
There were canadian and european soldiers for the UN in rwanda who did nothing to stop the genocide.
So we see that the united nations cost a great deal of money and doesn't actually do anything particularly useful.
The other team might say that the UN sponsors good organizations like unesco, but why not just have those organizations and separate it from this dictator's club that ultimately has failed in its primary purpose?
Namely to implement world peace.
For these two reasons I think it's clear that we should disband the united nations.
Thank you.