Boarding schools are advantageous.
So by boarding schools, quite simply we mean schools where children, we're talking about primary and secondary school here, live away from their families, at the school.
So think of something like hogwarts, if you want.
And by advantageous we mean that we think that these are better for their pupils than a traditional school where the pupils live at home during their education.
So three arguments.
The first is that we think students will learn more at boarding schools than other types of schools.
Recognize that there is much more to education than just math, reading and writing.
We think that physical education and social education is as important to producing young citizens as traditional academic education is.
But we do all of these things better.
It's easier to have students spending more time in class and to guarantee that they're doing their homework and their reading if they're at school.
You can have study halls which are monitored by older students or by teachers, and ultimately ensure that students are getting tutoring they need and that they're doing all the work.
You can also have programs like sports that every student can participate in, or educational clubs that every student can participate in, whereas at a normal school some students would have too long to travel going home to be able to take advantage of these opportunities.
Now, everyone would, and we think it's more likely that they would all have well rounded educations if you were able to have this type of education at a boarding school.
If students learn more, then they become more successful citizens, they're able to work and be more effective, and ultimately, we think that it will be to their good in the long run, even if it's difficult for them at times in the short run.
Our second point is point is about reducing inequality.
So some students at a traditional school are going to be able to pay to join sports teams and clubs, are going to have parents who are very well read and who can teach them at home, are going to have tutors and nannies and things like that, and other students are going to go home to an empty house and wait for their parents to come home so they can just have something to eat.
We think that at a boarding school you reduce this type of inequality because all students have access to the kind of human capital that wealthy students would have access to normally.
So they can be around tutors, they can be around religious officials, they can be around people who can help them with problems that they face.
We can also guarantee that students are getting a nutritious, healthy diet, that they have a safe place to sleep, that they're you, know not, being bullied by the other students.
I think that the other side might try to tell you bullying is worse in boarding schools, but we tell you that it's much easier to identify when you have students on the premises, and easier to do something about it.
If you're a working parent you don't have a lot of time to invest in helping a child who's being bullied, and we think that we can take care of it better in a boarding environment.
So ultimately, we think that students from a lower income background are going to benefit especially so that boarding schools are advantageous for that reason.
Our last point is about preparation for life.
So recognize that schools are not an end into themselves who want to produce young citizens, who want to produce workers, etcetera, by using schools.
So how do we do that?
As I mentioned earlier, there's more education than just reading, writing, and math, although those things are certainly important.
But most people don't end up living in the same town that they grew up in.
Most people don't live in their parents house, after they graduate from high school they have to move somewhere else to get a job.
In the real world, so to speak, we don't often get the luxury of spending all of our time with our family or of being sheltered from the realities of the world.
Boarding school is a kind of gentle introduction to what that's like, because in boarding school you know you can have a gentler learning curve than you would otherwise.
Many people go out into the real world from regular schools and they don't know how to live on their own, they don't want to take care of themselves, they've never been away for the family, so they're at a great disadvantage.
But students who have grown up at boarding school are more likely to be independent, more likely to know how to look after themselves, more likely to know how to make friends in a new place, and these are skills that you can't get anywhere else, that are very important for success as an adult.
So for these three reasons, we think boarding schools are advantageous.
Thank you.