We should not ban free newspapers.
So, we're going to explain to you why those newspapers that are full of local ads ought not be banned.
Our arguments are going to be about restrictive governments, value to some people, and a lack of harms to others.
So, our first point is about the least restrictive means of governance.
We think that while will may be correct in his belief that very few people actually care about these newspapers or want them, that even if that were true, it's not as a good enough reason for the government to ban their publication.
We think that at the end of the day, in order for government to intervene, there needs to be some sort of harm to the general public, and that there probably isn't here for reasons I'll explain in just a minute.
We think the other time that the government could intervene is if there was some sort of lack of access to information or trickery taking place that would be harmful to some people.
But everyone knows what they're getting from these newspapers full of ads, so we don't think there's any sort of information asymmetry here either.
So at that point, because there's no harm to the public and because there's no difference in access of information or difference in power between the newspaper and the reader, ultimately there's no reason for the government to get involved.
And we think it's good for the state to defer to not getting involved in private matters, because we don't think the government is good at picking winners and losers.
While these free newspapers might seem like clear losers, ultimately we don't want the government to be in a position where they make these decisions for people in the long term.
We would be worried about a creeping influence of the state in other forms of media that might have more value to society if they begin taking action against this one form of media.
Our second argument is that these newspapers have value to some people.
I just like to point out that although I don't know who, someone must read these newspapers or they wouldn't be printed anymore.
So presumably someone is deriving value from these things, even if we're not quite sure who that is.
But there is one group who does certainly derive a lot of value from free newspapers, and that would be the homeless.
Many homeless people use free newspapers to create shelter for themselves, so ultimately this does have value for those people.
We think that even though you might say that it's unfortunate the amount of litter that's created, giving the choice between homeless people not having access to newsprint, which they often use to line shopping carts or sleeping areas, we think that it's preferable that they do have access to these free newspapers, something that they can gain without having to take anything away from other people.
So for that reason, we think that it's sufficient to say that there is some benefit to these newspapers for a particular group and that even if it seems marginal, that's sufficient to keep permitting these newspapers to exist.
And our third and final argument is that free newspapers don't hurt anybody, so there's no reason to ban them.
This gets back to what I talked about earlier with least restrictive government.
But moreover, at the point where there's no harm to any regular citizen and there's some marginal benefit to the homeless, we think we should defer to the more beneficial side, rather than the less, and continue to allow them.
So what do I mean by the idea that there's no harm to these free newspapers?
If you don't want them, no one makes you take them.
When I'm walking down the street near where I live, sometimes I see newspaper stands full of these free garbage newspapers and I don't take them, and they don't harm me in any way.
Maybe I'll be sitting on the subway and there's one on the floor, but I just don't pick it up.
It doesn't do anything to make my life worse.
So I think will's exaggerating a little bit when he talks about the effect they have on other people.
Perhaps the worst thing about them is that they become litter in some instances, but at the end of the day, the streets where I live have litter on them regardless of whether these free newspapers exist.
So I don't think it's a big deal to allow them to be published.
There's not a lot of additional marginal harm for these free newspapers, when people are already throwing beer cans and soda bottles on the ground.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban free newspapers.
Thank you.