We should not subsidize single parents.
So, by this, we mean programs that are specifically designed to help single parents, that don't apply to other groups of parents or other families, should be ended.
We have a few arguments for our side, the first of which is that government aid program should be based on one's need rather than one's status.
In other words, we don't think that you should receive help because you're a single parent, we think that you should receive help if, for instance, you're low-income or don't have access to healthcare or that kind of thing.
We think that, ultimately, the reason why we create special programs to help people is to meet some need that society or individuals are unable to meet.
This is why we have, for instance, in the US, a program called wic that gives out formula to young mothers to ensure that children have enough to eat.
We think that programs are better when they target the people that they need to help rather than whole swaths of the population who may or may not need that help.
Sure, lots of single parents are really in desperate financial situations and need government support, but lots of other single parents are dentists or psychiatrists who make a hundred and fifty thousand euros a year, and these people don't need our support.
So, ultimately, I think it's important to bear in mind that we shouldn't be giving out aid to doctors and lawyers, just because they're single moms.
Instead, we should be focusing on helping everyone, including two-parent families who doesn't have enough to make ends meet or whose children are having to go without.
That's ultimately going to be the best thing for our society.
And now, the other side might say that there are certain needs that uniquely exist for single-parent families, such as perhaps childcare.
But even then, we don't think that it's ever going to be only single-parent families that need childcare.
There's probably nothing that only single-parent families need that you won't have some two-parent families also require.
So, again, we think it's better to meet need than just to target this particular group because some members of that group might need more help.
Everyone would agree that it was absurd if we said that everyone in south carolina was going to get a special dispensation from the federal government because parents in south carolina are more likely to be in poverty than those in many other states, because, oviously, doctors and lawyers in south carolina don't need that help.
Single parents are a class more comparable to those living in a certain state than they are to an economic class.
And our second argument is that any policy that you introduce to help single-parent families is just going to be a bandaid solution that doesn't actually get at the underlying problems.
It is true that children need stability and that sometimes they don't get it as much from a single-parent household, but what we need to do is change the conditions that lead people to be single-parents if you want to help those children in the long term.
So, for instance, if we increase access to sexual education, then you'll have fewer teens getting pregnant, and that's probably the largest source of single-parents is people who get pregnant too young and aren't able to deal with it.
In a similar vein, we could also increase access to education, because educated women tend to wait longer to have children, and the majority of single-parents are women.
So if we encourage them to wait longer to have children, then this won't be as big of an issue.
Ultimately, I'm not convinced that having single-parents is a bad thing.
Plenty of people who are important to me grew up with a single-parent and turned out really well, so it's obviously possible.
And I think that we should have programs that help people in need rather than targeting one group, because if you target single-parents specifically, you basically undermine all of the work that they do by saying, " you can't provide for your children because you're a single-parent, " and that kind of singling out seems really harmful for the parent and the child psychologically.
For all of these reasons, we should not subsidize single-parents.
Thank you.