We should continue the use of mass surveillance.
On our side we would argue that while mass surveillance is sometimes distasteful to people or something we would rather not exist, that it is a useful tool in the toolbox for the modern day government and that it's not something that we should end the use of.
We would be okay with having more checks on the use of mass surveillance by the court or by other institutions but we think that getting rid of it completely, as the other side proposes in this debate, would be a mistake and that the other side needs to justify a categorical ban of mass surveillance in order to win this round where as we just need to show you that it's sometimes necessary.
So our first argument is that mass surveillance can be used to stop terror attacks.
While most people don't like the security state in america since nine eleven, you can't deny the fact that there hasn't been a major terror attack since the security state was implemented.
The ability to use mass surveillance means that terror attacks and small scale terror attacks in particular are much easier to detect because we can identify the people who are likely to commit those attacks by looking for certain patterns in meta data that is collected and then we can identify those people and monitor them to prevent those attacks from happening.
Ultimately, we think that the benefit to society of being able to reduce terrorism is so great that it's acceptable to ask people to give up a little bit of their personal freedom and I'd like to point out that the electorate hasn't had a huge backlash against mass surveillance.
So it seems as though people are okay with this weighing calculus.
Ordinary people are smart enough to understand the trade-off between government knows where I am all the time but there's also going to be no big terror attacks this year and to make that choice for themselves.
Maybe not everyone would prefer security but in a democracy we have to consider the will and the good of the majority and it seems quite clear that the majority of people in the US and other democracies are okay with mass surveillance.
Our second argument is that an end to mass surveillance could lead to a wide scale unrest in many countries around the globe.
For many regimes like the people's republic of china that make heavy use of mass surveillance, this is used as a tool to prevent dissidents from leading movements against the government.
Now the other side might say oh that's really bad they're preventing people from advocating for democracy but at the end of the day, we think it's quite reasonable for people to prefer stability to some sort of abstract form of government that they probably wouldn't get anyway.
I think it's actually not evil at all for a government to say we're going to use mass surveillance to prevent street violence and to prevent insurrection and terrorist groups from cropping up which is effectively what a lot of states like the people's republic of china do when they use mass surveillance.
It might be couched in terms of protecting the regime but the ultimate effect is to preserve stability and to prevent unrest from breaking out across the country and we think that once again, people can make a reasonable choice to prefer stability to some sort of abstract notion of freedom or democracy and that there's nothing wrong with that.
But what I'd like to close with is the idea that what replaces mass surveillance would probably be worse.
You would probably see more profiling of people of certain backgrounds because we can't check up on individuals.
We have to make broader assumptions about entire groups of people.
You would probably see more wrongful arrest and convictions for terrorism because the data and the evidence in court cases would be of a lower quality.
You probably see many more large scale terror attacks that take extremely organized planning like nine eleven or like the lockerbie bombing because it would now be possible for terrorists to plan those things in fora that are currently banned to them because of the use of mass surveillance.
So with all of those arguments in mind, we think you should not end the use of mass surveillance.
Thank you.