Urbanization does more harm than good.
So by urbanization we mean the process by which people leave rural areas and move to large cities and towns.
We see that this is a process that has occurred throughout human history but is rapidly accelerated throughout the twentieth and early twenty first century.
Most people today now live in an urban area, which is a big change from a hundred years ago, and the concentration of people in urban areas is likely to rapidly increase according to UN metrics.
So we have two big arguments for why we think this is ultimately worse than it is good.
First of all we think that urbanization leads to a breakdown of social structures.
Most people around the world rely on family networks throughout their lives in order to support themselves when they need help.
For instance if you are a young mother and you need to work you can rely on a cousin, or aunt, or some other member of your extended family to do things like childcare, and to help you out.
We think that people can rely on families help much more unconditionally then they can rely on the help of others, often because there's a sort of tit for tat nature and an expectation that if, as a young person say, you take advantage of your family's help in the future you will get back to this community.
We see that this is lost though if your young people move to the city because that's generally how organization works.
We see lots and lots of young men moving to cities.
Relatively few elderly women, for instance, moving to cities.
So at that point people are taking and taking and taking from these networks as children and then abandoning them without doing they're just dues when they go to a city.
So these networks fall apart for a couple of reasons.
One, because the people are actually leaving and can't participate and two, because the expectation of a return on your investment, so to speak, is lost.
Why help out the children in your family if you think that they're just going to leave and go to the capital as soon as they get old enough to?
So we think that this causes a breakdown in a really powerful support network that can really help people when they fall on hard times.
Individuals who don't have access to a lot of government support, like people living in developing countries, might have family as their only support network but it's undermined by urbanization.
In the same way we think that traditional culture is often lost.
If your traditional beliefs require that you travel to a certain area or that you communicate with a certain religious leader and you live hundreds of miles away in a big city, we think that you're unlikely to be able to continue that.
We also don't think that you're going to replace this culture with something better.
Instead we think it's likely that you will continue to practice some sort of base form of your old culture that loses much of its meaning without the place in which it was set, or that you will completely give up on your local culture and instead participate in global westernized culture.
We think that ultimately this leads to people adopting american and western culture and abandoning their own traditional culture which has the effect of making everyone around the world more or less the same and eliminating the diversity that makes the world such an interesting place to live.
So our second argument is about what we think broadly speaking this will be to lower quality of life for the people moving to cities.
This isn't really a debate about people moving from, say, rural america to new york city because highly developed countries have already urbanized to an extremely high degree and are unlikely to organize further.
We think that this is a debate more about people moving from rural morocco to the slums around marrakesh.
Recognize that many of the world's largest cities are now in developing countries but that most of the people who live in them don't live in the really fancy nice areas that tourists see if you visit these areas.
They live in slums that are kind of out of sight and out of mind and this is where urbanization is growing.
It's not lots and lots of people moving into nice apartments in high rise buildings.
Its people living in little shanty towns reminiscent of america in the great depression.
These areas are rife with disease and poverty and crime and little opportunity for people to advance themselves or care for their families.
We think that in rural life you have many more opportunities to feed yourself, to fall back on your community, but because people are lured to the city on false pretenses and expectations partially based on hollywood, partially based on lies told to them by potential employers, that ultimately you will be better off staying in the countryside than moving to a city.
For these reasons we think that urbanization does more harm than good.