We should not abolish needle exchange programs.
On our side, we're going to tell you about how addiction, especially the addiction to drugs that use intravenous injections, is a public health crisis, and we're going to tell you about how this is actually a very good use of government funds, contrary to what sam tells you in his speech.
So, first, why is this a public health crisis?
We would argue that it doesn't make sense to treat drug addiction as a choice, which is one of sam's key contentions: that because people choose to become drug addicts and choose, as he puts it, to use unsafe needles, that this is their responsibility and not the state's.
No rational person would opt into being a drug addict.
We think that at the end of the day, drug addiction needs to be treated like a disease rather than be treated as an individual choice.
It might be true that people opt into using drugs initially, but they're not free to stop opting in once they become addicted.
So we think that at the end of the day, this isn't a meaningful choice the way that other actions people take are.
Right?
If I choose to park illegally, let's say, to use a silly example, that's a choice that I make every single day to illegally park my car.
If I choose to shoot up heroin one time, for the rest of my life, unless I'm very lucky and I'm able to break my addiction, I'm not going to be able to choose not to use heroin.
So you can see that there's not really a meaningful choice here, the way that there is for other crimes that people commit.
Therefore, I think we need to treat this as a public health crisis because, like any other disease, the people who suffer from it aren't fully responsible for what's happened to them.
And moreover, we also think there's a compelling state interest here, because if these people go on to be deathly ill and have to go to hospitals, we think that they consume a huge amount of state resources.
We'll explain in just a minute how this reduces the spread of HIV and other diseases but at the end of the day, needle exchanges mean that fewer people are likely to get ill from sharing needles or from using dirty needles and, therefore, we think that there is a compelling state interest to treat this as a health crisis and give away clean needles.
Our second argument, as I said before, is that this is a good use of state funds.
The primary reason is that this helps to limit the spread of HIV.
Sharing needles is one of the most common ways for HIV to spread right now.
We think that this is really important because one of the government's main concerns needs to be protecting innocent people from contracting HIV which, even if it's no longer as lethal as it was in the late eighties, is still something that can seriously damage people's quality of life.
If we eliminate one of the primary modes of exchange, namely, people sharing dirty needles, because we give away free clean needles to people, then we think that there will be many fewer new cases of HIV.
This means that fewer and fewer young people will contract the disease and as a result, the rate of HIV infection will go down over time.
Yes, it's true that there are other ways this disease can spread, such as unsafe sexual behavior, but this is one of the modes we can actually control and therefore, we think this is, in fact, very good use of the state's money.
But our last argument is that this does a huge amount of good for a very needy population, namely, people who can't afford to buy their own safe needles.
Many of these people are homeless.
They have very few resources and can't really provide for themselves.
We think that, clearly, the state needs to be concerned with providing for those who are worse off in our society.
This is why we offer homeless shelters, why we offer welfare programs, etcetera.
Needle exchange programs work fairly similarly.
They provide a resource for people who are in desperate need, homeless drug addicts primarily, and ensure that those people are able to live the safest life possible within the confines of their bad situation.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abolish needle exchange programs.
Thank you.