We should not subsidize wikipedia.
And before I get into my arguments, I'd just like to say that I think the team that wins this debate will be the one that explains what's best for wikipedia, because both sides in this debate agree that wikipedia is an incredible invention, and what we should think about is how best to preserve it in the long-term in a useful and in its best form.
So before I get into my main arguments, I'd just like to point out that this would be unnecessary.
Wikipedia has been very successful at fundraising, has never required subsidies in the decade plus that it's been around, and ultimately has raised more and more money as time has gone on.
So I just don't think there's a real need for this kind of subsidy for wikipedia to operate.
I'll just keep giving them five dollars every couple of months and they'll keep chugging along.
So our first argument is that subsidies would undermine wikipedia's independence.
Where do subsidies come from?
Well, the first source might be to have governments give money to wikipedia.
So let's say that the canadian government decides to give money to wikipedia.
Now they have a certain amount of influence over the content that goes on wikipedia and maybe in the future, there will be fewer articles about how canada mistreats its aboriginal people, because people will be afraid of cutting off the source of funds that makes wikipedia possible.
Even if the canadian government never asks wikipedia to change anything, their behavior will still change because they're receiving this money.
So even if you imagine the best possible donor, which might well be the canadian government, it would still change wikipedia for the worse because of this loss of independence.
And many donors would not be that benign.
I think it's easy to imagine, say, the government of qatar donating money and asking them to remove articles that are critical of qatar or to imagine corporate sponsors removing articles.
Many corporations already edit wikipedia, such as exxon, to try to cover up evidence of their misdeeds, but this would just make the problem that much worse when they could throw money at them and then demand that changes be made after they've already used the money.
And we think that, this leads into our second point, that this would lose the volunteer nature of wikipedia as well in a couple of ways.
First, I think fewer small donors would give if it was supported by governments or big businesses.
Right now, you've got people like me and hopefully you, if you don't donate to wikipedia please do so after you listen to my speech, who give money to the organization.
And this means that wikipedia is kind of based on what the people want and moreover, that it's supported by ordinary people around the world.
I'm a grad student.
Sometimes I edit wikipedia articles about what I study.
The reason why wikipedia is so incredible is because a lot of experts and grad students and hobbyists and other people contribute their knowledge to the encyclopedia to make it better.
So even though everyone has a very specific slice of what they know about, I can go and edit articles about greek historiography, and another person can edit them about boeing engines and all of these other very niche topics, and that's why wikipedia covers basically all of human knowledge.
But if these big businesses come in, I think it would turn off many of these editors.
Many of them might resent the fact that now there's some corporate influence over the company or even, if it's a benign government, they might still resent that.
So we think you would likely lose a lot of editors and moreover, that you would lose some of the independents that wikipedia as an organization has.
Right now, the wikimedia group that runs wikipedia is basically just a group of men and women sitting behind their computers around the world, talking online about how wikipedia should look in the future.
So if they're going to add a new language or if they're going to delete articles, all of those decisions are just made by volunteers.
But if corporations give lots of money, then they're going to expect a certain type of governance so that there's more accountability.
That might mean having like a real CEO involvement in wikipedia, for instance, and it would just fundamentally change the nature of the organization.
And on our side, we say, " if it ain't broke, don't fix it. "
There's no reason we need to subsidize wikipedia.
Thank you.