We should end the use of mass surveillance.
First, let's define mass surveillance.
We're talking about things like the massive NSA spying program in the united states with which the american government collects information not only on every single american citizen including location, who you interact with, where you go, what you buy, but also people around the world including in countries like germany where there was a large public scandal when it came to light that the US government was spying on citizens and government officials.
We think that the defining trait of mass surveillance is that it applies to everyone rather than one individual.
We're okay with the united states government spying on the kremlin.
The problem that we have is the US government collecting information on every person in america and the european union and perhaps all around the world.
Our first main argument is that this is a violation of privacy and our second is that it's a threat to democracy.
So why is this a violation of privacy?
Well, this seems pretty straightforward.
People operate with the assumption that what they do in the privacy of their own homes is private.
For instance if someone is a closeted homosexual, they might for instance consume media that's aimed at gay people whereas they wouldn't do such a thing in public and they might have a reasonable expectation that in their home they could secretly consume this media and no one else would find out.
But due to the NSA spying program, the US government now has information about who these people are, what they're doing and what their preferences are.
Now you might say that's not such a big concern.
What do people have to hide?
It's not like the american government is going to go after these people for being gay.
But we don't know the future, right?
You can clearly see how this could be used to abuse people.
If you think about the stasi, the secret police in east germany, one way that they use to coerce people into cooperating with the regime would be to find out that people were secretly gay and then to blackmail them and threatened to tell their family or their community so that they would have to do whatever the regime told them.
The american government certainly wouldn't do that right now, one would hope, but we don't know if that could be done in the future so we need to insure against the possibility of future tyranny and it's also not beyond the realm of possibility that the US government would share this information with dictators abroad.
We see that the US has helped many dictators abroad to retain power and help to put new dictators into power in countries like chile in the past.
So I wouldn't put it past the american government to give this information to foreign governments to help them coerce their own citizens.
But moreover, we just think that people have a right to choose to interact with whom they will without the government constantly watching over them.
This has been the case throughout human history and it's only recently that the government has been able to intrude in our lives this way.
Therefore, we need to end the use of mass surveillance to restore people's privacy.
Our second argument is about how this is a threat to democracy.
If you have people who are opposed to the current government or opposed to current leaders, it's almost impossible for them to organize due to mass surveillance.
Even if they take extreme precautions the US government is really adept at using people's meta data, that is to say, secondary or tertiary information about someone that they gather from other people's internet use or from unrelated parts of their own internet use to determine what people's political views are and what groups they're a member of.
This is one way that they catch a lot of terrorists in america and britain for instance.
We tell you that the problem is that if people wanted to overthrow their government or to fight against tyranny, they wouldn't be able to.
For instance, if lots of people were planning to go after erdogan in turkey, let's say as a kind of quasi undemocratic leader, the american government due to their obligations to nato might feel the need to turn over who these people are to erdogan.
So you can see how this could be a threat to a democratic movement in turkey.
For all these reasons, we need to end the use of mass surveillance.
Thank you.