Organ donation should not be mandatory.
In my speech, I'm going to, first, tell you about why this would be a rights violation, and I'm going to clash here directly with what sam tells you about maintaining people's rights, and secondly, I'm going to talk to you about why there are better ways to meet demand that would actually get the end sam tells you about without the abuses that would occur as a result of mandatory organ donation.
So, first, why is this a rights violation?
We would tell you, first of all, that this violates people's right to freedom of religion.
The reason that this is the case is because many religions require that people be buried intact, so to speak, without having doctors cut open the body after death.
We think that for those religions, it would be a great offense to have the government require that everybody not live up to those burial standards.
We think that because in the united states and many other western countries, there are laws that prohibit discrimination against any religious group, for instance, religion is a protected class in the US, that, therefore, this policy would probably not stand up to scrutiny in the supreme court or in other jurisdictions.
Because of this violation to religious freedom, we don't think this policy is acceptable.
Next, we want to talk about personal autonomy.
Sam tells you that people don't have any rights to their bodies after they die and that families don't have any right to inheritance, but we actually do think that families have some rights in the form of their own right to closure and to know what has happened to their loved one.
We see that states spend a huge amount of money to return bodies of people who die abroad to ensure that people have funerals, even if they die without any money.
So, clearly, governments see that they have some obligation to families.
And we think that given that, it would be inconsistent with the principles of society as a whole to require organ donation when it would be traumatic to these families.
Moreover, these families are already going through an extremely difficult part of their lives, given that they just lost a loved one, and we think that it would be wrong for the state to basically victimize them at the point in their lives when they're the most vulnerable.
And lastly, sam tries to make this weird utilitarian argument that it's better to give people organs than it is to allow people to have solace after a family member's death, but we don't actually think that he gives any evidence to explain why this is true.
It's just an assertion.
After all, at the end of the day, what is good, what is not, we just don't think utility actually makes a lot of sense as an ethical framework, particularly in this debate when there are many different parties to consider.
Our second argument is that there are better ways to meet the demand for organs.
Sam correctly identifies a problem that there are an insufficient number of organs available relative to the demand for healthy organs, but we think that there are better ways to meet this demand.
You could, for instance, create incentives for people to donate their organs.
One way this can work might be to require people to sign up to be organ donors in order to receive certain government benefits or to receive a free funeral.
On the other hand, you might also have a program that makes a payout to a family if someone is an organ donor, almost like a life insurance policy, or you could do something that we've all advocated for many times before, debating at IBM, and allow people to sell their organs.
We think that if there was a legal organ marketplace, that many wealthy people would choose to buy organs on this market, which would free up the available free organs for those who can't afford to pay and that this would dramatically increase the supply of organs while also maintaining consent from the people who give them up.
On our side, we've shown you that you can meet the need for organs, while also respecting the wishes of the deceased and, therefore, I think it's clear that we're going to win this debate.
You're going to vote for opposition because we better uphold individual people's freedoms and because we better solve the problem sam brings up.
For all these reasons, organ donation should not be mandatory.
Thank you.