Surrogacy should be banned.
So, by this we mean a practice in which people who want to have a child but, for whatever reason, are unable to will enter into a contract with a woman and she will bring a child to term on behalf of those people and then give up the child to them legally when the baby is born.
So, normally, you have a contract that's signed where the woman agrees to bring the child to term and then turn it over once it's born and these people will pay for medical expenses and sometimes women will even accept money in return.
So, you have instances when it's done for altruistic reasons and instances when it's done for commercial reasons.
So, with that in mind, we think both types of surrogacy should be banned.
Two arguments: first is that we think that surrogacy contracts are inherently exploitative towards the biological mother.
We think that effectively what you see with surrogacy is that young women are being pressured into selling their body and their health at great risk, and in other instances, society wouldn't accept this, so they shouldn't accept it now.
We think that it's very difficult for someone who's never been pregnant to internalize the harms of pregnancy.
We think that things like your ability to work during pregnancy and your ability to carry out your daily life vary tremendously from person to person and from pregnancy to pregnancy.
Obviously, no two pregnancies are the same, as any mother of multiple children will tell you.
So, we think that it's very difficult for the young mother, particularly if she's never done this before or never been pregnant before, to actually internalize the risk that she's taking and then set a fair price.
So, we think that what's very likely to happen is that prices will be set artificially low and then that in order to compete, anyone who wants to become a surrogate will be forced to set the price lower than they actually should, based on the risk.
But because many of the people who enter into surrogacy contracts will probably be people who were in a financially difficult situation and aren't really free to negotiate, we think that they're effectively being taken advantage of by wealthier families who want to conceive these children.
And I'd also like to point out that there's tremendous potential for abuse.
You might see a partner or a parent pressure a young woman into agreeing to be a surrogate, despite the health risks, despite the potential harms, in order to get money out of them.
Now, society prevents women from having sex for money and doing other acts that would let them basically sell their body and their well-being for financial benefit.
So, we don't think that you should allow this policy which is effectively the same thing.
The risks are very much the same as prostitution, so we don't think that you should allow it if you're not okay with that.
Our next argument then is about why we think these contracts are unenforceable and ultimately not good for the state to permit.
So, recognize that in the status quo, the only time that you can take away a baby from its mother is if she is mistreating it or has been shown by the court to be unable to care for the child.
Otherwise, almost every government around the world really reprioritizes letting a child stay with its mother.
So, we think that the result of that is if you have an instance where someone brings this child to term and wants to keep it in violation of the surrogacy contract, it's going to be very difficult to actually enforce that contract because you're in a really difficult situation.
Either the court upholds a surrogacy contract and takes away a baby from its mother or the court overturns the contract and these people lose their money.
We think that either situation is really undesirable and we think that this will be a common problem.
We think that many times, it's probably going to happen that a mother will have the child and then naturally feel an attachment towards that child and want to keep it, even though it's a violation of the contract, so we think that this is likely to be a big problem.
This is probably going to clog up the courts and we also think that these trials are unlikely to be fair.
We think that since the couple who wants to have a surrogate mother is probably very wealthy since this process is expensive, that they're always going to get better representation and they will win cases unfairly, simply because they can hire better attorneys or better represent themselves.
But on top of that, we think that because this issue is so fraught it would be better for the courts to avoid it entirely, and the only way to do that is to ban surrogacy.
So, ultimately, because we think surrogacy is unfair to the mothers and because we think that these contracts are going to be difficult to uphold and lead to a lot of problems for the courts, surrogacy should be banned.