We should abolish the olympic games.
So, I'm sure everyone here is familiar with the olympics, they're held every four years for summer sports, and then alternating for winter sports.
We would argue that the olympic should be abolished.
So, three arguments for our side.
The first is that the olympics lose a fortune for their host cities.
Since the nineteen eighty four olympics in los angeles, no olympic host has turned a significant profit on hosting.
Indeed, many olympics, like the ones held in athens, have actually done serious damage to the financial stability of the host country.
We would tell you that, ultimately, there is no reason to continue hosting the olympics, which ultimately are an event for entertainment, when it's effectively a huge white elephant for the country that receives it.
Cities are pressured into hosting, because they feel like this is the best way to increase their international standing, but then once they actually do, they get lots of media attention for a few weeks during the summer, when the olympics is held, and then suddenly they're left with billions of dollars of useless infrastructure, that doesn't actually do anything to help their people.
We think that this money would be better spent on developing useful infrastructure, building metros that people would actually ride, instead of ones that connect hotels to stadia for instance.
But on top of that, we think that it's just unethical for governments to spend their money on the olympics.
Because government funds are fungible, this is all money that isn't being spent on things like schools, and social welfare.
So, we think that states should not be investing in the olympics, and that, ultimately, that's the only way that they're possible is heavy public subsidy.
Even though large companies, like coke and mcdonalds, sponsor the olympics, ultimately governments provide the vast amount of the money to actually host them.
Our second argument is that the olympics glorify amateurism, in a way that we think is ultimately harmful.
In most sports in the olympics, excepting basketball and a couple of others, you have to be an amateur in order to be able to compete.
What this means is that the highest level of competition, for many sports around the world, does not pay the athletes.
Now, it may be true that a country's ministry of sport might feed and house people, while they train for the olympics, but these are people who could, on the free market, presumably sell lots of tickets, and bring in lots of money for their own benefit, instead of the IOC's benefit, if it weren't for this glorification of amateurism.
Because of the olympics, we would argue, many sports, like weight lifting, like gymnastics, don't allow the athletes to support themselves and generate a good income, based on their talent and hard work.
These athletes are working as hard as anybody in the NBA or the champions league, so we don't see why they shouldn't be able to use their skills and talents to earn lots of money.
But, because the olympics are so fetishized, ultimately that's what people care about, and these athletes are forced to be amateurs, if they want to be able to compete at the highest level.
Our third and final argument is that the olympics prioritize certain sports unfairly.
The sports that are included in the olympics tend to be sports, that were developed in the united states, or western europe, especially england.
Things, like sports developed by native americans, or sub saharan african people, are almost entirely absent.
Yes, lacrosse is sometimes included in the olympics, but that's the only example that you can really point to.
We think that this means, that countries are encouraged to ignore their traditional sports and games, to focus on american or european sports and games, because the international community has agreed, that those are the ones that are worthy of being celebrated at the highest international level.
We think that it's unfortunate, that countries are spending more money on western gymnastics or basketball, than they are on the sports that their ancestors played, because ultimately it's likely that if we don't encourage those cultural traditions, that they'll die out, and everyone is poorer if we lose access to our shared cultural heritage.
For these reasons, we should abolish the olympics.
Thank you.