We should not ban the sale of alcoholic beverages.
We think that, at least for adults, that people should generally be allowed to purchase alcohol whenever they want, wherever they want and that while we should maintain restrictions on people drinking on the job or drinking and driving, ultimately it should remain a personal choice whether or not people choose to drink.
So with that in mind we have three arguments.
Our first is about the economic effects of banning alcohol because recognize that as long as there's a demand for alcohol, and I assure you there will be even if you ban it, someone is going to find a way to supply people with alcohol to fill that demand.
Now, tim in his last speech said that they would be able to use enforcement mechanisms to prevent organized crime from getting involved in this, but I think that's very unlikely.
We saw that during the age of prohibition in america in the early twentieth century that despite extreme efforts by the government, they called them revenuers, to prevent people from producing illegal alcohol it was still widely available.
We see that people were smuggling alcohol in from canada and that people were making it throughout the united states as well.
Because alcohol is so easy to manufacture we think it's basically impossible to ban.
We're not talking about something like cocaine that has to be grown in colombia and then flown in, we're talking about a product that anybody with apple juice and time on their hands is going to be able to produce.
So with that in mind, what does it look like when people are consuming illegal alcohol?
We tell you first of all that the standards for purity and safety are going to be very low compared to what they are when alcohol is legal.
So not only are criminals making money off of this product but what they're selling may be adulterated with methanol or other toxins that make people go blind or get very sick.
So people are going to be paying criminals and also facing serious health repercussions.
During the original prohibition many people went blind from drinking improperly made alcohol, something which doesn't happen now because it's regulated by the government.
And lastly we tell you that the social problems around alcohol will only get worse if you banned its consumption entirely.
We think that, for instance, if people don't have a way to get booze at their home then they're more likely to go elsewhere and drink at a speakeasy or something and then drive back, and that there will be left fewer services to help people to avoid drunk driving once it's no longer something that society is aware of and actively trying to prevent.
So we think that if anything it'll exacerbate existing problems with alcohol abuse.
Our second argument is that we shouldn't ban alcohol because people don't want to.
The original prohibition in the US, canada, and other countries was driven by widespread popular support, something which doesn't exist today.
We think that governments derive their legitimacy from doing what the people want them to do, they exist as sort of trustees and representing the interests of the people in their country.
But since the people of almost any country in the world today where alcohol is legal don't want to ban alcohol we think that this would be an abuse of government power that goes against the interest of the people who clearly want at the very least to allow others to choose to consume alcohol.
Our third and final point is about the cultural importance of alcohol and this is why banning it is always going to be very difficult.
Certain groups are always going to require alcohol for different rituals or traditions, some religions require sacramental wine for instance.
And even if you make loopholes in the law to allow those groups to consume alcohol that just opens those loopholes up to abuse by people who just want to get access to alcohol.
But we also tell you that alcohol is such an integral part of the culture especially in many northern european or north american countries that people are going to find a way to get access to it no matter what.
So you undermine respect for the law because the law is now running contrary to the mores of society, at that point we think that people are going to ignore the law and also respect the government less.
So for all of these reasons we should not ban alcoholic beverages.
Thank you.