We should not ban targeted killing.
Targeted killing is really a euphemism for assassination as conducted by the US and many of its allies.
It's been used extensively in central america and the middle east to fight against communist insurgencies and terrorism, sometimes with more success than others.
We have three arguments for why this should continue to be a practice used by countries that currently do so.
Our first point is that this prevents conflict.
In any debate, you must ask yourself: is the alternative better than the status quo?
So when yuval tells you that we should ban targeted killing you have to ask what would the world look like if we didn't use this practice.
If countries like the united states didn't use targeted killing, then very likely that they would have to invade other countries, or conduct much larger scale operations to get the same ends.
For instance, osama bin laden was killed a through a targeted killing.
A navy seal squad burst and was home and killed him.
The alternative to a targeted killing might have been for the US military to invade pakistan in order to capture him at his home.
We think that it's clear that many more innocent individuals, many more third parties would be harmed in the world without targeted killing.
There would be more military interaction between soldiers and civilians, and ultimately it seems likely that many innocent people would be killed if it weren't for targeted killing.
Even if you think that the victims of targeted killing don't deserve to have their lives ended, the alternative is that many more people die.
So it's clearly worse even from that perspective.
It doesn't matter so much of targeted killing is ethical if the alternative is much worse, and we would argue that it is.
Our second point is that states have a duty to their citizens to punish people who have put them in harm's way.
For instance, when terror attacks are conducted in a country, we think that the government has an obligation to its citizens to go after the people who ordered the terror attacks.
So when people order for instance rocket strikes against israel, we think it's completely legitimate for the israeli government to go after those people as individuals.
Ultimately, because your citizens trust in the state to provide them with security, and the only way to do so is to punish the people who are threatening the citizens' security really you have to go after these people using some method.
And as I've already explained, targeted killing is preferable to the alternative.
It's not enough for the other side to say that it's wrong to kill people.
Sure, that's true.
But in the real world it's not really an option for states not to do so.
If you stand by and let people commit terror attacks against your citizens, then ultimately people are still going to die.
Many of them much more innocent than these terrorist leaders or insurgents.
So ultimately, while we may wish for a world where this wasn't necessary, it is necessary because states have this duty to the people who live in their country.
And our third and final point is that targeted killing is highly effective.
The other side could argue that we should ban it because it kills people and it doesn't actually stop terror attacks.
But that simply isn't true.
Many insurrections in latin america in the nineteen eighties and nineties were put down when the US began using targeted killing to kill their leaders.
I believe a euphemism often used here is that if you cut off the head of the snake, ultimately you've stopped the problem.
Similarly, if you kill the leader of a terrorist group or an insurrectionary group then they will cease to present a problem to their government.
So ultimately you can encourage the rule of law, limit the use of non state violence or extra judicial violence, and make everyone better off in a country by using this targeted killing.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban targeted killing.
Thank you.