We should not ban factory farming.
In this speech, I'm going to argue that, first, we need to prioritize people over animals, which I think will contrast with most of the arguments that danny presented with you and, secondly, that this actually isn't unethical, which directly contradicts what danny tells you about utility.
So, first, why do we need to prioritize people over animals?
I think danny makes an assertion that because it's bad to abuse animals that the government ought make it illegal, but I'm actually gonna push back on that.
The only obligations of the state are to the people who live within that state.
Why?
Well, what is a state?
It's not an area, despite the fact that states control territories.
It's a group of people who have come together to establish a community.
Yes, many people have been born into this community, and there's no literal social contract that we all sign when we turn eighteen, but the fact remains that a government exists by the convention of people who live within that territory.
Note that I said, " people ".
Chickens, for all that they may live in canada or australia or pick a state, are not members of that state.
They don't have political rights, and they're not part of that social contract.
Why is this so important?
If the only obligation of the state is to the people whom that state consists of, as we argue, because of the social contract that people enter into, then the state has no obligation to chickens, or cattle, or pigs and other animals.
We think that maybe if people want to pass laws that would ban factory farms that they would be within their rights to do so, but to my knowledge, no country has done this, and there's nowhere in the world where a majority of people want this.
So we think that the state cannot intervene to do this, even if it might be the ethical thing to do, which we'll contest in just a minute, because it's not the role of the state to tell people what's right and wrong.
It's the role of the state to reflect the will of the people who live within it.
We think that it's silly for danny to tell you that the state must do this when, in fact, we see states are rarely, if ever, moral or ethical actors and, in fact, simply reflect the will of the people or of their leadership.
And our second argument is that this actually isn't unethical.
Right?
We agree that factory farms don't make us feel very good, but that's not the foundation of ethics.
First of all, we would tell you that it's not unethical because it's possible to universalize this principle.
Everyone in the world could run a tiny factory farm in the lot behind their apartment, whatever space they have available, and it wouldn't make the world a fundamentally worse place.
Sure, it might be economically inefficient, but whereas if everyone lied, the world would be a worse place, and therefore lying is unethical, or if everyone stole, the world would be a worse place and, therefore, stealing is unethical, the same doesn't seem to be obviously true for factory farming.
Everyone could farm and that wouldn't make the world a worse place.
Therefore, we don't think this is unethical.
We think danny needs to explain to you why something that's universalizable, that doesn't cause these kinds of problems, can be unethical.
But secondly, I want to push back using the metric of utility that danny gives you.
We don't think that animals merit consideration in a utilitarian calculus.
The experience that animals have may be similar to that of people in some ways, but we think that it's always going to be less than that of human beings.
Why?
Human beings are moral agents.
That means that we have the ability to conduct moral actions and to be treated immorally.
We think that animals are not moral agents.
In the same way that a cat is not evil if it kills a bird, even if that bird is in endangered, let's say, we don't think that it's evil for someone to kill a cat, even if we perhaps wish that people wouldn't.
We think that at the end of the day, people's gut feelings which tell them that we should treat animals well are distinct from morality and that the other team needs to do a lot more work if they want to win this debate under a framework of utilitarianism.
For all these reasons, we should not ban factory farming.
Thank you.