Teacher tenure reform brings more good than harm.
So I think that, when we're talking about this debate, it's important to keep in mind exactly which teachers we're talking about.
It seems to me that we're talking about primary and secondary educators in the united states, based on the information that we've been given, and on top of that we think that this is useful because these are people who receive tenure for educating, not for doing research like they would at a university, so we think that fundamentally if you're concerned about teachers, this debate is more relevant at the primary and secondary level than it is at the university level.
And on top of that, we think it's especially relevant in the USA because this is a hot button issue in many states there.
So that said, we could recognize that, while there are some drawbacks, we think that there is more good than harm done by reforming tenure, such that teachers with tenure can be fired or have their tenure revoked.
Two big arguments.
The first is about why we think you get better teachers.
So, recognize that right now you might have a teacher who does a really good job while they're at the beginning and middle of their career, and then once they get tenure they can phone it in.
Why would someone who knows that they will never lose their job regardless of performance because of tenure continue to work very hard in order to improve, when they're going to get hired anyway and keep their job anyway?
We think that you remove the biggest incentive for people to work hard.
It's not enough to offer them things like pay raises, you need to use the carrot and the stick.
The threat of losing your job motivates people to do the best that they can.
We also think that you're better able to reward the best teachers with promotions if you get rid of tenure.
Right now let's say you have a math department and you have two senior teachers and two intermediate teachers and two junior teachers.
If you're, one of your intermediate teachers is very very good at their job and deserves a pay raise and more respect, and one of your senior teachers is just phoning it in and not really trying, with tenure, you can't replace that advance teacher who's doing a poor job, which means that you can't reward the intermediate teacher who deserves to be rewarded with better pay, because you can't just create new positions when you have a limited budget, and now you can't promote them because you can't get rid of the person who's holding a position that they rightfully deserve.
So we think that you're better able to reward the best teachers and incentivize everyone to try to be the best teacher if you reform tenure.
So we think that you'd better create an impetus to improve when you reform the tenure system.
And that ultimately because the market is more competitive as people have to worry about losing their jobs, and as people have more of an incentive to try and try to continue to improve throughout their career, you will ultimately get better teachers, and have better education as a result.
So the second point is why we think this is better for students.
And I think this is a critical issue for this debate because if you're a state government and you have a limited amount of money and you have millions of students who need to get educated, obviously you wanna do what's best for these children.
The purpose of education is to help young people to gain the skills they need to be successful citizens, and you do that better if you reform tenure.
I've already explained why you get better teachers, and we think that if you have more qualified hardworking better teachers, then ultimately students are going to succeed more often.
Because if they're learning from people who are more qualified, more motivated to help them, then it seems likely to follow that they will be more likely to succeed and to do well in their education and go on to be more successful citizens.
But on top of that, when you have a limited budget to spend per student, we think that it's critical that you get the most bang for your buck, if you will, that you're getting the best value for the state's money.
And we think that tenure allows you to do that because you can fire teachers that are drawing in a lot of resources, like senior people if they're not producing according to what you're spending.
So we think that at that point we can get more bang for your buck.
You can do things like hire more teachers so that students get more one on one time with educators, or spend more money on special needs educators for students who need more attention or different attention in the classroom than their peers.
So at that point we think that you're likely to get better education for students with special needs such as advanced students and maybe disabled students or students learning english for the first time and other groups who need more attention.
But also that even average students who won't be getting this kind of specialized instruction will get more one on one time with an instructor because you'll be using your money more effectively and you can hire more staff.
So at this point, because you help more students, you're better fulfilling the purpose of education, and because you get better teachers to facilitate helping students.
So we think that teacher tenure reform brings more good than harm.
Thank you.