We should abolish needle exchange programs.
So by needle exchange programs we basically mean, a place where people who use drugs that require injections can go and get more needles in exchange for turning in used needles.
So these are normally targeted at heroin users for instance who are using needles to inject heroin they can go in and turn in old needles and get new clean ones that have been sterilized.
So that's the program, but we don't think that it actually works.
Two reasons why it should be abolished.
One, these programs don't actually do anything to help drug addicts.
The idea behind these programs is that people will go in, and they'll turn in all their dirty needles and replace them with sterile needles, and as a result , things like HIV won't get spread as much, and blood borne infections and illnesses will ultimately not be spread around, and the drug using community will ultimately be safer as a result, and therefore they'll have lower healthcare costs and be less of a burden on society.
But, what actually happens, is these programs just add more needles to the supply.
Basically, addicts will take in a few needles and be given way more clean needles in exchange.
We don't see that many of these programs enforce a strict one to one exchange, so what this really does is make it easier to get a hold of hydroponic needles to use for drug use, rather than, keep the supply the same but replace all the bad ones with good ones.
So at the end of the day these only facilitate worst decision making.
Because needles are cheaper, and people have easier access to them so there's less of a barrier to using these drugs, ultimately we think that it's more likely that people have an easier time doing drugs like heroin because of the existence of these needle exchange programs.
But also, when the government of san francisco or wherever is instituting this program creates this facility that normalizes drug use, these people see that they're engaging with the city in the same way that anyone else would by going and using a public service, but for them it's used to get heroin into their veins.
So we see that this normalizes the act of using these drugs, and ultimately makes it seem more acceptable than it should be in our society.
We still want to make it clear, that these drugs are unacceptable and we don't think you can do that with needle exchange programs.
Second, these harm the communities where they're placed.
So, first of all, we think that these programs attract addicts into a community.
Where, if you go and build this in an area, then most like you're going to have lots of people who are addicted to drugs coming in to take advantage of this service, probably nobody who lives in that community wants this to happen.
Why is that true?
So say you've just gone in gotten some needles from the needle exchange program.
Your next question is probably, how do I get more drugs to use these needles?
And that's likely to lead to things like petty theft and begging and other undesirable behavior that people don't want to see in their community.
We think that oftentimes these needle exchange programs are built without the consent of the people who would be living nearby.
Everyone will probably be okay with this in the abstract, but nobody wants a needle exchange program on their block, or downstairs from their apartment.
Because they don't want these unsafe drug users around who might be violent or might be thieves, and they're worried about their neighborhood as a whole going down hill.
This is likely to harm the reputation of a neighborhood, as it seems to be the kind of place where drug addicts hang out, and also to lead to it losing residents and social services.
Because we think that a neighborhood gets into a spiral where it starts out as a fine neighborhood, and then more drug addicts come in, and then it becomes less safe, and then people don't want to move there, so the residents remaining behind are the people who can't leave, and ultimately this leads the city to provide it with less services because it has fewer people, and the people who live there don't pay as much in tax, and this harms the quality of life for the people who can't move.
Whether they be pensioners or other people who for some reason can't leave the area.
So we think that building these needle exchange programs it's unfair to those people, even if it might be good for the addicts.
But because we've shown you that addicts don't benefit and that communities don't benefit, we think we should abolish needle exchange programs.
Thank you.