The right to internet access should be protected.
By this we mean that people around the globe should inasmuch as there is infrastructure have access to the internet in a relatively unfiltered way.
We're okay with things like limiting access to adult content for children but broadly speaking, we think that adults should one, be able to access the internet and two, be able to access whatever content they want on that internet.
Three arguments for this.
First, freedom of speech and assembly.
We think that in today's globalized age with the internet access to online materials has become an integral part of both the traditionally protected rights of freedom of speech and of assembly.
Why is this so?
So in terms of freedom of speech, many of the most important fora in the world for discussion are now online.
People don't really exchange physical newsletters anymore or subscribe as much to physical journals or magazines.
They rely on the internet for access to this type of information.
So when you limit the right to internet access and you limit the right to choose what you consume on the internet you're limiting people's right to consume the speech of others and to expose others to their own speech in a way that would be unacceptable offline and in terms of freedom of assembly, we think that there are many important communities online and that people ought to have right to access to.
Even if we think, for instance, that it's distaste for people to join certain political groups we think that if they would have the right to join those groups in person, they ought to be able to affiliate with them online and those organizations web pages will not be banned and people should be facilitated in joining them.
In the same way that we have roads and things like that to facilitate people participating in freedom of assembly in the physical world.
The other team needs to explain to you what the fundamental difference is between physical space and cyberspace and I don't think that they'll be able to do so.
Our second argument is about how this is a check on government abuses.
What the arab spring has shown us is that when regimes are abusive the internet offers a powerful check on them.
People before the internet might have felt like they were the only ones who are experiencing some sort of prejudice or like there wasn't a critical mass of people who were unhappy with the government.
They lacked a tool to organize.
They lacked the ability to see what the rest of the world was like in order to know if their treatment was commonplace or acceptable.
With the internet you were able to see things like the organization of mass protest in countries like tunisia and egypt in a few hours.
Thirty years ago, it would have taken days and days maybe even weeks to organize a protest with a hundred thousand people, but today with technology like twitter it's possible to do it in a matter of hours.
We tell you that this is a huge threat to autocratic governments that don't treat their people well.
The knowledge that with the internet people will be able to protest.
Internet access should be guaranteed so that governments have to treat their people well lest they be afraid of these protests or even of having their government toppled.
The internet in other words keeps governments honest and we think that that is a good thing.
Our last argument is that censorship is by its nature bad.
We think that when you censure certain ideas that you don't actually challenge them you just make them hidden.
People will think that those ideas must have merit and be dangerous because they're being censored.
On our side of the house when we allow these ideas to be spoken openly, when we allow people to use the internet to engage with different ideas we think it's more likely that poor ideas are challenged and overturned rather than entrenched because they're banned.
We think it's more likely that people will have a free exchange of ideas and that out of this marketplace of ideas you will have the best possible forms of government and society emerge.
We concede that many cultures have become more liberal since the adoption of the internet and I don't necessarily mean that politically, but I mean in terms of tolerance.
You see more acceptance of things like gay rights in the world today than you did before the internet and part of that is probably the ability to spread narratives about, you know, what gay people are really like and what they actually want from society rather than harmful narrative spread by the traditional media.
With the internet more people can speak their voice and censorship that shuts that down such as limiting access to the internet will only be a bad thing only harm discourse.
So for these reasons the right to internet access should be protected.