We should not further exploit nuclear power.
We have three arguments for our side, but I think that in general we're okay with countries maintaining their existing nuclear power, we just don't think that it should be seen as the future of energy production.
So we're not arguing that french should shut down all of their nuclear power plants, we simply think that in the future country should look to other forms of alternative energy in preference to nuclear power.
Our first argument is about democratic will.
Essentially there is a strong anti-nuclear movement throughout the world and we think that this is important when policy makers decide what type of energy we ought use.
At the point where very few people would willingly consent to living near a nuclear power plant, even if there's some aggregate good, we think that there's a disproportionate harm to the people who live in the communities where these power plants would be located.
At that point, because governments rely upon their citizens consent to govern legitimately, we don't think that we can build these nuclear power plants.
We think that in effect we should only build power plants that people are willing to consent to having located in their communities and that nuclear power plants are always going to have a lot of backlash.
Now, even if this backlash is unfair, even though nuclear power is actually much safer than coal and other traditional energy sources, we tell you that people are afraid of it because of nuclear weapons and that ultimately they're not going to be willing to accept this.
Therefore we should focus on other types of energy.
Which leads nicely into my second point, which is that there are other alternatives that don't have nuclear power's drawbacks.
Now danny tells you that solar power and wind power are not actually suitable for use at this moment for fighting climate change.
And while it's true that these technologies are not as mature as nuclear power in some ways, it's also not true that they're not ready to be deployed.
If we were willing to invest the same massive amounts of capital in solar infrastructure that it would take to expand nuclear infrastructure, then I tell you that ultimately we would be able to rely on solar power, wind power, and other forms of alternative energy rather than nuclear energy.
At that point we think it's preferable that we do so.
For one thing these types of energy don't produce nuclear waste, which is difficult and unpopular to dispose of, so we think that's a major benefit that they have and a problem that we avoid by not relying on nuclear power and instead by relying on solar energy or other forms of alternative energy.
Our third and final argument is that nuclear power is only a solution in a few select locations.
Right now there are only a handful of countries around the world that are capable of producing electricity using nuclear power.
What that means is that when countries like the united states or britain invest money into researching better nuclear energy they're producing forms of energy that can't be implemented in the developing world.
Since most carbon emissions are coming from developing countries and since by far the largest increase in carbon emissions in the next hundred years will be from countries that are trying to develop more quickly, we think it's important to focus our research funds onto types of energy that will be useful all around the world.
In other words, if we can't use this type of technology in latin america or in sub saharan africa, then ultimately it's not going to do a lot of good in terms of preventing climate change.
We think that other forms of energy like solar power are much more easily implemented in other countries.
And what's more, we tell you that even if in the future of these countries are developed enough to build nuclear power plants, the political reality is that powerful countries are uncomfortable with the proliferation of nuclear technology and are unlikely to be okay with lots of countries adopting it.
You run a greater risk of non-state actors or irresponsible states having access to fissile material and ultimately that could put everyone at risk for things like dirty bombs and other nuclear attacks.
So for all of these reasons we should not further exploit nuclear power.
Thank you.