We should tax plastic bags.
So, by plastic bags, we're talking about the kind of bags you would receive at a store when you buy something, and we think that a tax like ten cents for every plastic bag used would be sufficient.
This type of policy has been implemented in california, in boston, and in many other parts of the US, and we think that it could be effective throughout the world if adjusted for things like cost of living and the prevalence of plastic bags in different countries.
So our first point is that we need to make people internalize the cost of their actions.
The use of plastic bags has a high cost to the environment.
These bags never break down, so they sit in landfills for thousands of years potentially.
In the future, it's going to cost billions of dollars to clean up these landfills and find a way to dispose of all the plastic in them.
But right now, you and I can go to the corner store and pick something up that's triple-wrapped in plastic bags, and it doesn't cost us anything.
So we get them, we use them, we throw them away, and we never think about it.
When you tax these bags, you make people think about the cost, because you're transferring a tiny portion of it from the general public onto that one individual.
We think this would have a few effects.
First of all, people would be less likely to use these in gratuitous ways.
I see this in my own life.
Now if I go down to the corner and I buy one item, I don't get a plastic bag for it, because of the tax.
I carry it back in my hands.
There's no reason why I or anyone else in california couldn't have done this before the tax, but it's much more likely that people will try to avoid paying a fine or a fee, even if it's very small, than they would just do the right thing.
So, ultimately, we think that people are more likely to carry things or even to get other types of bags as a result of this.
Many people have switched to using reusable bags, which are generally recyclable and also can be used dozens of times compared to the one or two uses most plastic bags get.
So we think that as a result of making people internalize these costs, they're less likely to ask for a bag in the first place, and they're more likely to get reusable bags, which can reduce the use of plastic bags astronomically, as they remove our dependence from them.
Our second argument is that this would encourage the production of other types of bag.
Right now, it's very likely that if you produce plastic bags, you're worried about these types of taxes going into effect because they reduce demand for your product.
What's going to happen is that plastic bag companies will switch over to producing bags that are able to decompose in order to avoid having to pay this tax on their product, so that their business will continue.
That might mean that they switch over to paper bags, which is something that you see many grocery stores do when plastic bag taxes go into effect.
They offer everyone a brown paper bag which will decompose in a few months rather than a plastic bag that will still be there in ten thousand years.
So we think that this would be a huge boon to the environment because if large producers switch over to paper bags instead of plastic, then even in areas that don't have this tax, it's likely that they'll switch over to using paper bags as well, since that's what the producers are making.
The other possibility is that these producers will innovate and create biodegradable plastic bags, which we think would be good for everyone.
If that's the case, then we'll see that we won't have these bags in landfills for hundreds of years and that people will still be able to get the bags that they want but the impetus, the the mother of this invention, is going to be the plastic bag tax that creates the cost that these companies set out to avoid.
So, ultimately, because we need to make people internalize the environmental costs of their plastic bag use and because we want to encourage the production of alternative types of bags, we should tax plastic bags.
Thank you.