We should subsidize investigative journalism.
So before I get into my arguments I'd like to very shortly define what we're debating about.
We're talking about long form or even a video media which promotes a higher understanding of current events or important issues in society based on original investigation by journalists.
And this will be provided to the companies which are producing this journalism be that the new york times or other similar private organizations.
And by subsidize we just mean provide funds to make this feasible for them to produce.
So with that in mind three arguments.
The first is that investigative journalism is a public service.
In order for a democracy to function it relies on the availability of information on which voters can base their decisions.
If voters lack access to good information then they aren't able to intelligently vote or to know what is in their own interests.
So ultimately we require institutions like the media to provide people that information.
But in the same way that ultimately we have private operators provide things that are a public service in other instances such as access to television or sometimes even water and what we do that with subsidies we can do that with journalism is well.
We don't think that this will be a conflict of interest for the journalists because ultimately they're still beholden to the company that employs them and that company is free to use private funding for all the instances when they would do so in the status quo.
Our second argument is that this is necessary to combat the influence of big business and the super rich.
A handful of influential people like rupert murdoch or ted turner have an outsized influence on what the media portrays.
So these individuals are able to control narratives that rightfully should be determined only by the facts or by public interest.
When someone like rupert murdoch is able to influence the public in a very outsized way to vote against a certain candidate because of his interest rather than their own we think that that does a disservice to democracy.
And ultimately the only way to combat this outsized influence exercised by certain wealthy individuals is to provide an alternative source of funding because of these people's power is derived from their ability to fund journalism then the only way to remove that power is to provide an alternative source of funding for journalism.
We think that subsidies for investigative journalism is the most effective way to do this and that it's the only way to prevent these groups who having to much control over the public discourse and the public narrative.
We think that the government is a better agent to influence public opinion than any private source because ultimately it acts on the public interest and because it's controlled by trustees who represent the public rather than by privately interested individuals.
And our third and final point is that this is consistent with other media subsidies which governments provide.
Consider the existence of things like the BBC which are heavily subsidized by governments or by taxes.
We think that many countries around the world have some form of state media already.
Subsidies for investigative journalism are can completely in keeping with this principle.
So in our world what this looks like is the BBC conducting investigative journalism.
We would also be okay with the british government providing funding to private newspapers as well but we think that will be consistent with the using the BBC to fulfill the same end.
And at the point where so many governments already have state owned media companies we think it's clear that governments have taken an interest in providing the public access to good information and that the only thing that we're adding in this motion is a specific focus on this type of journalism.
For all these reasons we should subsidize investigative journalism.
Thank you.