We should not abolish no knock warrants.
So we're going to argue that in common law countries we should keep using no knock warrants.
So our first argument is about the preservation of evidence.
The primary reason why no knock warrants are issued is because there is a suspicion about some illegal activity which could easily be hidden or destroyed if a person was alerted that the police were coming.
So perhaps the classic example is that a drug dealer could flush all the drugs down the toilet as soon as the police knocked, and then open the door, and they could conduct a search and there would be nothing for them to find.
So because court cases rely on gathering evidence in order to establish the truth, the only way that we can conduct fair trials for issues relating to drugs or other possible offenses is to have access to information about what people are really doing.
If that necessitates no knock warrants, then we think that no knock warrants are, although perhaps undesirable in some instances, still necessary in order to conduct the best possible court cases.
So because of this we think that preservation of evidence is a higher order good then maintaining someone's marginal right to privacy, given that the police are still going to come in.
And with that comparison we should defer to having no knock warrants.
Our second point is about limiting violence.
If someone is cornered in their house and the police knock and say: " los angeles police " or whatever they say, then that person has time to arm themselves or get weapons.
So we think that ultimately it's more likely that they'll be able to have an armed confrontation with the police, rather than just a be surprised and ultimately be subdued very easily.
If the police come in without warning than someone's probably going to be on the couch or eating dinner, and not have time to get lots of weapons and arm themselves.
So we think it's less likely that you have violent conflict between these people.
So this is obviously good for the police, because they don't have to fight this person.
It's also good for the person who's being raided though, because they're not going to be killed by the police or at least they're less likely to be killed by the police, if they aren't fighting back.
And moreover, conflicts between citizens and the police have huge cost for the community around them.
Stray bullets may enter other people's homes, innocent bystanders in the house could be injured.
So ultimately this isn't just about the well being of the police or the person whom they're there to serve, but ultimately everyone else who's around as well.
So we think that if it limits the amount of violence in the community, that ultimately no knock warrants are on balance good although, again, we're willing to acknowledge that they aren't perfect.
But the last thing that I'd like to talk about is that the harms of a police raid are not unique to know knock warrants.
So daniel, in the last speech, basically argues that police raids are bad because they violate people's privacy and damage people's property.
But this is the case whether the police knock and announce themselves or whether they just come in through your door with a battering ram.
Ultimately the police are still going to go through all your property or ransack it, depending on your perspective, they're going to draw guns on you and threaten you if you do anything to resist them.
So we think that all of the harms that accrue due to a police raid are going to accrue whether or not we have a no knock warrant.
So the other team needs to explain to you what is uniquely harmful about these no knock warrants.
And they could say: " oh, well getting your door knocked down its expensive relative to just opening it. "
But this is a very marginal cost, compared to the cost of having a police raid in your home in the first place, so we don't think that's enough.
They could say that this makes people feel less safe, but since you have to get a warrant from a judge we think this really only affects people for whom there is probable cause, so we ought not be overly concerned about the risk of making these people feel a little bit less safe in their homes.
So for all these reasons, we should not abolish no knock warrants.
Thank you.