We should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
So in many countries, like the united states or canada, people cannot be tried for the same crime after they've already been tried for that crime.
So, let's say I murdered somebody and I was acquitted, even if later evidence came to light that proved that I did the murder, I could not be retried in the US.
This is part of the fifth amendment.
On the other hand, in britain there is no double jeopardy protection anymore, so now I could be retried if I later say, confessed to the murder on TV or in a book or something like that.
So three arguments for why we should abolish double jeopardy.
The first is that new evidence may come to light that was not available for the initial trial.
As an example of this, let's say I committed a crime and DNA technology didn't exist yet, say I did this back in nineteen ninety one.
And then ten years later, DNA evidence is now around and they're able to prove that I committed the crime using DNA evidence.
It seems that it would better fulfill the purposes of justice to allow this new evidence to be used in a conviction since it didn't exist initially.
What do I mean by this?
Clearly we want criminal justice systems to deter criminals and the only way to do that is to get convictions.
So if we hamstring ourselves by refusing to retry cases even when new evidence comes to life light, then we greatly reduce our ability to deter future criminals.
Our second argument is about subsequent confessions.
Surprisingly often, even in countries like britain where they don't have double jeopardy protections, people will later feel guilty and confess to a crime.
But if they've already been tried and acquitted, that means that they can't be put on trial even if they've subsequently confessed to the crime.
So in england right now, let's say I again I killed somebody and I get acquitted and then a few years later I read a book about what I did.
I could be tried for perjury for entering a false plea in the court of not guilty, but I could not be tried again for the murder, even if I explained, you know, where the bodies are and what the murder weapon was and all these other things so that the police could prove it beyond a shadow of a doubt.
We think that, in this case in particular, when someone confesses to a crime years later after being acquitted, you ought to be able to retry the crime.
This seems particularly important in these instances because now the victim, or the victim's family, has to live with the fact that this person has admitted to what they did and probably made money on a book deal and received all of these benefits but that they'll never face justice because the initial trial was unsuccessful.
Our third argument is about tainted acquittals.
So let's imagine this time that I'm a murderer again, but I'm a mob boss let's say.
And I'm able to intimidate the jury.
So in america, you could have a mistrial declared if it's proven that I tainted the jury, but if I get away with it, if it's, and there's no way to prove that I actually was able to say, intimidate the jury, I don't know, I'd leave a horse head in their bed or something like the godfather.
Then there's no way for the DA or other prosecutors to go after me.
We think that we should abolish double jeopardy protections in part so that we can go after tainted acquittals.
If it came to light, years and years and years later, after the statute of limitations for an appeal or for a mistrial, that I actually have been able to intimidate the jury, we think that the state should still have some ability to go after me as a criminal.
So for these reasons because new evidence may come to light, especially with new forensic technology and things like that, because of subsequent confessions deserve to be punished, and because of the risk of tainted acquittals, particularly from organized crime, we should abolish double jeopardy protections.
Thank you.