We should not ban algorithmic trading.
So three points which will advance my own arguments and also respond to the last speaker.
The first is why we think this kind of trading is beneficial for everyone, the second is about government over reach, and the last is about regulation.
So first, why this is beneficial for so many people: I'm going to begin with a little bit of rebuttal, so first of all recognize that corporations opt in to being traded on the stock market.
They agree that their value will rise and fall in exchange for access to capital in the form of an initial public offering.
This means that no company is being traded without their consent.
So you can ignore everything that was said about why corporations are being unduly harmed by this.
They opted in to it.
Next, all trading affects the market.
The other speaker doesn't explain to you why this type of trading is uniquely harmful for the market.
It's true that sometimes algorithmic trading will cause a company to go up or a company to go down or the entire stock exchange to become more or less valuable, but this is true of all trades.
Recognize that if there was a hurricane tomorrow and an insurance company had to sell lots of stock so that they could pay out on claims, then the market would probably go down because people would lose confidence because that insurance company was selling.
Should we ban everyone from selling stocks because it might cause the market to go down?
Then nobody would invest.
So we see that this isn't actually a problem, it's just how the market works.
And lastly they complained a lot about short selling in the last speech, which is when you buy a stock then sell it all off and then buy it back at a lower price, so you keep the stock and make lots of money.
This has been a common practice for hundreds of years.
It's not a unique harm of these algorithmic trades and on top of that it's not actually a bad thing.
It's just how the market works.
So we see that most of the harms in the last speech are not unique problems to algorithmic trading or actually that harmful.
So with that in mind, we think this is beneficial because it reduces the risk and cost of trades.
Ideally you want people able to trade whenever they wish so people can access their money in a more liquid form and to incentivize people to put their money in to the market because there's less risk.
On our side we think more people will buy into the market and participate.
But on top of that all of this is good for pension funds and other funds that benefit ordinary people.
It's not just a bunch of wallstreet fat cats making money off of this, it's your grandma and grandpa who have money in the market or who rely on a pension that has money in the market.
So ultimately we see that reducing risk and removing barriers to trading is a good thing for everybody.
And lastly if the market grows it's good overall.
Because more people invest on our side because there's less risk and fewer barriers to investment, ultimately the market is going to grow and we think that this will boost the economy as a whole because people will invest more in your country if your stock markets are doing well.
Our second point is about why we think it would be government over reach to regulate this kind of algorithmic trading out of existence.
We think that it punishes some traders unfairly.
On their side now you have to have fifty employees who are all stock brokers in order to effectively trade because you need people on site all the time when the stock exchange is open always making deals.
It's much easier for small companies to get into the market if they can use these algorithms to facilitate trading.
And we think that more competition within the stock exchange market, within the brokerage market is going to make it cheaper for people to access these services and increase the quality of service.
So we don't think that the government should get involved in this instance.
We also tell you that the cut off the other team proposes for what is algorithmic trading and what isn't, is arbitrary.
When does a software cease to be something that's just helping the broker, as they put it and become something that's too abusive?
We think that you should just allow brokers to use the software that makes their job the easiest.
They probably know better how to do their job then government regulators.
And lastly we think that this leads to inefficiencies in the market.
Anything that creates a barrier to trading makes it harder for people to do business and ultimately that's going to lead to inefficiencies in the market where there is demand that can't be met and supply that can't be sold.
Lastly, our third point is about regulation.
We think that regulation will always be post hoc, so it's always going to be responsive to the last problem, not actually preventing new problems.
That it will be full of loopholes and easy to get around and that it won't account for new software that'll ultimately undermined the regulation they propose.
For these reasons we should not ban algorithmic trading.
Thank you