Progressive taxation is not beneficial.
So we're going to give you three main claims in the debate today about fairness, about incomes for the government and about inequality.
So regarding fairness, we tell you that everyone has an equal claim to the product of their own labor and the return on their own property.
How much you deserve something is not dependent on how much of that thing you own.
We see that around the world today some people own lots and lots of real property like land and some people own none at all, but we don't generally speaking in liberal countries break up the real property of the wealthy and give it to the poor.
The other side has spoken about diminishing returns but we tell you that it's problematic to say that it's up to the government to determine at what point I should not value my money as much as I did before.
It's entirely possible for someone to value even a very large amount of money greater than another person values a smaller amount of money.
We simply don't think that the state can never be the arbiter of what is fair in this respect.
So at that point we think you ought differ to the idea that people of equal claim to their own wealth because there's no line in the sand that makes it clear that money becomes less valuable and the state is a poor arbiter of this.
We also think that the rates that are going to be set with progressive taxation will fundamentally be unfair we think that they will be set to appease voters and that you'll have the tyranny of the majority as a result.
Everyone will want higher tax brackets for wealthier people than themselves and lower tax brackets for their own wealth.
So at this point we think that people will vote in politicians who will implement the very high tax brackets for wealthier people who won't be able to defend themselves and their property from this actions.
So with regards to our second claim, that there's no guarantee of greater income for the government, the reason why we tax to begin with is to fund government services.
Things like education, roads, health care, all that good stuff.
But there's much more of an incentive for people to avoid taxation if they are paying at a higher rate.
And we think that it is easier to avoid taxation if the tax code is more complex.
We think that it's not as simple for the other side to say, oh a progressive tax will mean that there's a ten percent rate on this much money and a twenty percent rate on that much money.
We think that in most countries there's much finer gradation than this and also that there are many exceptions and that this makes it relatively easy for people who can afford to hire good accountants to avoid paying their fair amount of tax.
This will actually hurt the income for the government and make everyone worse off as a result.
We also think that this punishes income and rewards capital gains.
So by that we mean to say that money made by working or renting out property or any other way to get money is now less valuable then money made on the stock market.
Because these things are taxed separately and most liberal countries so if you have a flat tax on capital gains like britain and the US do, we tell you that what you'll see is that if the progressive income taxes higher than the flat tax on capital gains then people will always put their money into the market rather than choose to invest it in something that will have returns in the form of real income and therefore the economy will actually grow less because people will have less of an incentive to grow their business and to put work into their own labor.
Our last point about inequality then is that inequality is very high even in nations with progressive taxation.
If you think about britain they have a very progressive tax code and also a an extremely high level of inequality on a global scale.
We tell you that one reason for this is that people are very likely to get away with not paying in their fair share of tax.
But what we see is that even if there is a correlation in some countries, like in scandinavia for instance, between progressive taxation and low inequality, that correlation does not imply a causation.
Progressive tax alone does not cause more equality and britain is a counter example to this.
But we also tell you that with regards to his claims about pickity and the idea that real wealth and terms of things like property is better than income, that this doesn't change just because you have more progressive tax.
A progressive income tax doesn't give low income people wealth, it just allows them to keep slightly more of their wages.
But since they probably spend that immediately on services and goods we don't think that you'll actually see more quality over time.
So we don't think that they avoid the sort of pickity trap that they talk about.
So for these reasons progressive tax is not beneficial.