We should subsidize recycling.
In other words, we think that government should subsidize private recycling plants in places where those industries exist and also open government-owned, such as municipal recycling plants, in places where they don't yet exist.
We think that this is going to be especially important in rural or low-income communities, but we'll talk more about that in just a minute.
We have three arguments today, the first of which is that we think that it is preferable to recycle used materials rather than to fabricate new ones.
If you think about the types of things that are most often recycled, many of them are going to be food containers or other disposable containers.
So, aluminum cans and plastic water bottles are a pretty good thing to think about when you think about recycling.
It takes a huge amount of energy to mine aluminum out of the earth, process it into a useful form, and then mill it into cans, relative to just melting it down and then using it to make new cans after it's already been extracted from the earth.
There are many harms to creating new versions of these materials such as the huge amount of pollution that it takes in order to produce plastic or certain metals.
So because we save a huge amount of energy, we think that ultimately it's always preferable to recycle plastic and metal rather than to make new plastic and metal.
Therefore, in order to avoid the environmental harms of mining or drilling for oil and then the pollution that's caused by turning the raw materials into the finished materials, it would be better to subsidize recycling.
This is going to be cheaper than cleaning up after the harms of new manufacturing, so it's ultimately a sound financial decision as well as a sound economic one.
Our second argument is that without subsidies, there will not be enough recycling in certain areas.
It's very likely that in new york city or london, there would be private recycling that would be profitable even if the state didn't provide any subsidies.
But in rural communities or very poor areas, this probably isn't the case.
You might be able to make money by charging people to recycle in a wealthy area, but in a poor area people will just throw out the recyclables instead because they can't afford to pay the recycling fee, even if they think that it's useful to recycle.
Moreover, in rural areas, there might not be enough density of people for a recycling plant to make good economic sense for a private business.
This is where the state needs to step in or the municipality needs to step in and operate a recycling plant, even if it means running it at a loss.
It's ultimately going to be better for the environment and the community to have recycling available, even if it's not profitable.
So we think that that's a compelling reason why subsidies are necessary, particularly in rural or low-income communities.
And our last point is that the state should subsidize recycling simply because people want them to.
Almost everyone supports recycling.
Nobody likes waste.
Nobody likes to pollute the environment unnecessarily.
So almost everyone is in favor of recycling.
Even the most hardcore conservatives don't argue that we should shut down recycling plants that are owned by municipalities.
Maybe they think we should privatize them when possible, but almost everyone agrees that it's important that recycling be available in some way or another.
So, because of this, there's a very clear popular demand for recycling, and we think that governments are most legitimate when they obey the will of the people.
The state exists to be a trustee to act on people's behalf, not to dictate policy to them.
But one people clearly want something like recycling, what a responsible trustee would do would be to provide that service, especially when it has so many social benefits that go along with it.
So because recycling is preferable, both financially and environmentally, to new manufacturing, because it's a necessity in communities where it wouldn't be profitable, and because of popular support, we should subsidize recycling.
Thank you.