We should not ban abortions.
So we're going to argue that existing abortion laws in countries like the US and britain should remain in place wherein women are able to access abortions well into their second trimester.
So, with that in mind we have three main arguments: the first is about the mothers bodily autonomy.
No surprise there.
We tell you that ultimately when the government prevents people from accessing abortions they are infringing upon the bodily autonomy of the mother.
They are compelling her to carry this child to term, to put herself and her health at risk, to lose time at work, to potentially go through very serious side effects like postpartum depression, and ultimately that this is an unfair burden to place on that mother.
We think that, in particular, at the point where the state doesn't compel other people to do things which are unnecessarily dangerous to their health, employment and well being, they ought not not compel these women to bring a child to term.
We think that it's up to every individual to decide what their ethical system is willing to allow them to do, and that if someone is ethically okay with abortion that we should allow them to do it.
We do think that the fetus is meaningfully distinct from a full human baby at the point where it can't live outside of the mother.
It's incapable of supporting itself.
And we think that this makes it fundamentally distinct from an independent creature which could survive on its own if not harmed, this one can survive only by harming the mother.
Our second argument is about the alternative world and why it's better just to allow abortions.
So sam tells you that we're going to have this debate in a world in which birth control is widely available and people have other options like plan b to deal with potential pregnancies.
The problem with this is that not everyone realizes immediately after a they become pregnant that they are pregnant.
First of all it's a misnomer that people can tell within two weeks, not everyone is able to do so.
And secondly people's circumstances change during the pregnancy.
I think that, in particular, many people might expect that they would have a certain level of support from their community or the father and then find out that they don't, and that changes their decision making calculus about whether or not to get an abortion.
So we think that because circumstances can change people need to have access to this.
But I think even more importantly people are going to get abortions whether or not they are legal.
In ireland for instance abortion became legal very recently compared to other developed countries.
What happened was either women got illegal abortions, which sometimes were performed unsafely and led to the death of the mother and the child - a much worse outcome than a safe legal abortion - or they just went to the UK or northern ireland and got the abortion done there and the law had no teeth.
So we think it's quite likely that women of means will continue to get abortions abroad by going to other countries, and that lower class women will have to get dangerous sort of back alley abortions which ultimately will put everyone's health at risk.
So we think that even in a world where birth control exists, because it's not perfect, there's still a need for abortions.
And our third and final argument is about the social impacts that banning abortion would have.
Many of the children who would be born are going to be children who are unwanted and resented by their mothers.
We think that these children will ultimately grow up not being cared for very well because the mother wasn't able to take care of them, or because their community doesn't accept them, and that ultimately they are more likely to go on to commit crimes, to be unsuccessful.
We think that in general we should rely on the mother's intuition of how well the child is going to be taken care of in childhood, because she has more access to information then the state or someone thousands of miles away, making a decision on her behalf.
And at that point if she doesn't think that this child is going to have a good life we should probably listen.
So for all these reasons we should not ban abortions.
Thank you.