We should not disbanded nasa.
On our side we would argue that not only should the american government continue to fund space exploration and nasa, but that we should do so in a much greater level than we do today.
We have three arguments for our side this morning: the first is about the scientific benefits that nasa offers us.
People are quick to forget how many things that are now part of everyday life were born at the space agency.
Perhaps the most important of these is GPS.
Anytime you use any kind of satellite navigation system, you should be thankful that the american government has funded nasa for so long.
While today the global GPS network is run by the US air force, it was developed historically by nasa.
And while it's true that other agencies like the european space agency have now created their own geographic location satellites, all of these are picky backing off of american technology developed by nasa.
Ultimately, the economic value of the things that nasa has invented outweighs the potential costs astronomically.
If you'll allow a pun.
Ultimately it's not just GPS satellites, it's technologies that affect the way that we fly, the way that we that we drive, the food that we eat.
Almost every part of our lives has been changed by the space program in the united states and therefore we think it would be a shame if it were killed rather than allowed to continue to improve our lives.
It's simply not true that this is abstract pie in the sky science.
So ultimately we really need what nasa has to offer.
Our second argument is that this would cause the united states to fall behind in space.
Ultimately, when you're thinking about this debate, it's clear that we're thinking about what the american government ought to do, since no one else could disband nasa.
If the US disbands nasa then obviously we'll fall behind in space because we won't be pushing forward in space and our preeminent position right now will be lost.
What does this look like?
Right now we are on the edge of renegotiating the outer space treaty, the treaty which controls how countries are allowed to act in outer space.
The last time this was negotiated, it was just the united states and the soviet union shaking hands and agreeing not to put nuclear missiles on the moon.
Nowadays technology has advanced to the point that there are real economic reasons to care about outer space though.
In the next couple of decades it's very likely that people will start mining asteroids.
When this happens suddenly we will have billions, no, trillions of dollars of precious metals and minerals flooding into the earth's economy.
There are entire asteroids made of silver for instance.
The value of everything on earth pales in comparison to what we can suck out of the rest of the solar system.
And the technology while not there quite yet, will be there in the next few decades.
If we disband nasa then the united states will fall behind.
And in the same way that countries that failed to colonize the new world were suddenly overshadowed by spain, any country that fails to take advantage of resources in space will be overshadowed by those that do.
It is imperative for the future of the US economy that we exploit space to the fullest advantage.
My last argument is a response to something that daniel said in his last speech.
Many debaters make the argument that we should or shouldn't do something because it trades off with funding for other government programs, and I think this is a terrible argument.
The reason that welfare in america is underfunded isn't because we spend a few million dollars a year pointing satellites and telescopes at mars, it's because politicians don't care about the poor.
Ultimately the political will to help the needy, to fund basic science, to do other important things, doesn't exist.
And banning nasa won't improve the situation.
For all these reasons we should not disband nasa.
Thank you.