We should ban fast-food.
So, by ban we mean that we think government should close down fast-food restaurants and prevent them from opening, and by fast-food we mean restaurants that offer food that's prepared very very quickly, usually this might be a place like mcdonald's or burger king and we think that these restaurants become very popular around the world in the last fifty, sixty years, although they're history goes back further.
So with that in mind we have two arguments for why we should ban fast-food: the first is about why government needs to intervene.
We have three reasons: firstly, we think that there is an information asymmetry between consumers of fast-food and sellers of fast-food.
Companies like mcdonald's know full well that their food is extremely harmful for the people that eat it.
They know that there are enough calories for an entire day in a single hamburger, or that a milk shake has enough sugar for one person for several days for instance, but they keep selling it anyway.
Now it's true that government can compel these restaurants to provide more information but we think that government will always be reactive and fall behind on the harms posed by this food and that people therefore won't have access to good true information about what they're actually consuming.
Aside from that, we think that many of the people who consume a lot of fast-food are low income and lack access to the type of education to allow them to make good decisions about their own nutrition in the form of this fast-food, when they're being presented with something that seems so good but it's actually so bad.
So we think that government should intervene because there is such a large gap here, that companies are able to take advantage of people because they have access to such better information.
Nextly under this, we think that there are harms to third parties from people's consumption of fast-food.
Parents often take their children to eat fast-food for instance, which can set them up for a lifetime of obesity, if they eat this food too often, or even serious illnesses like diabetes if they end up drinking too much soda and otherwise eating too many sugary foods which we think is much more likely when people eat fast-food and other types of food.
Because when you think about the type of food being served it's often very fatty and very sugary because that's the cheapest way to provide flavorful food.
We think that government clearly can intervene in instances when there are harms to third parties, especially children, and that this is why governments can do things like ban smoking in public buildings or ban parents from smoking in the car with their children.
Lastly under this we think that there is a state interest in healthcare costs.
People who eat lots of fast-food are more likely to get diabetes, more likely to be overweight, and we think therefore that in the long term it will be very expensive to provide them with health care.
So in countries like canada and britain where healthcare is publicly funded obviously this will drive up costs, and in countries like the US it'll drive up costs for medicare and medicaid.
So the state has a financial interest in keeping these costs lower and they can do that by shutting down fast-food restaurants that directly harm people's health.
The last thing that we want to talk about, as a second point, is why we think the alternative world books much better.
We think that if you ban fast-food you're more likely to have local restaurants open up.
Compared to fast-food restaurants many more local restaurants are locally ur other restaurants are locally owned.
So we think that this will actually help local businesses and bring money into communities rather than funnel it to headquarters in another country or another city.
We think that it'll lead to better access to healthy food because it creates an economic incentive to provide this type of food.
Food deserts, for instance, are places where there is no access to healthy fresh food.
This might be poor neighborhoods in large cities for instance, that don't have a supermarket but do have mcdonalds and burger king and everyone has to spend their money there to get food.
But if those places went away then suddenly there would be a great demand for food that the market wasn't meeting.
So we think that companies would come in to fill that demand by selling them the types of food that they could prepare at home or by opening better healthier restaurants and that that would necessarily solve a lot of the health problems in these communities by giving them access to better food.
So we think that you would help a lot of people who are in a really difficult situation and on top of that increase health in general.
So clearly it's a better alternative world.
For these reasons we should ban fast-food.
Thank you.