We should not ban multilevel marketing.
By multilevel marketing, we mean companies where you are encouraged to try to get ten of your friends to join the company, so that ten of their friends join the company, and you get a portion of every sale that they make.
These are a little bit different than a traditional pyramid scheme in how they're legally organized and because pyramid schemes are illegal in the united states, but the principle is fairly similar.
We're going to argue that we shouldn't ban these things because they would still exist, even if they were unregulated, and because we think that the law needs to be principally consistent.
So, first, we don't want to ban these types of schemes because, right now, these exist in the open, and there's legal recourse if someone commits other crimes in the pursuit of a multilevel marketing scheme.
We think, for instance, that if you have someone who refuses to pay a debt related to a multilevel marketing scheme, it's better to have this be a legal activity so that you can go to the police or go to a court and recover that debt, rather than to leave people with no recourse at all.
And you might say that people know what they're getting into with these schemes but, plainly, they don't, or no one would get involved.
We think that these generally take advantage of people who are relatively ignorant of the law, who might not have as much education, and especially people who have very limited economic opportunity.
I think this is why one of the stereotypes around multilevel marketing is that of working class mothers selling goods to their friends.
It's because these are people who have limited economic opportunity, because of sexism in the community, and who have less of an education about the financial side of these businesses, so they're more vulnerable to that type of scheme.
We don't think that these are people acting in bad faith for the most part, we think that they're people who are being taken advantage of by the creators of the scheme.
So we would prefer to have this be legal so that those people can have recourse in court if they're taken advantage of, rather than illegal, which would give them no opportunity to recoup their money and that kind of thing.
But secondly, we think that the law needs to be principally consistent in order to be legitimate.
Yes, it's true that multilevel marketing takes advantage of people's ignorance, but it's hardly the only business that does that.
Consider, for instance, payday loans, which take advantage of people not understanding APR, or even many traditional credit cards, which do the same thing and abuse people's understanding of credit in order to force them to pay high interest rates.
We think though that even though these are all bad things, the law needs to be consistent.
We can't punish one industry for being unethical while allowing other industries to practice the exact same type of abuse.
So if you want to ban multilevel marketing, you also have to get rid of other types of, for instance, usurious activities that take advantage of people using high interest rates, because the principle is much the same: it's to scam money out of people who have good intentions and just want the best for their families.
We think that even if the world would be better off without these that banning multilevel marketing won't actually stop this type of abuse from happening.
All it will do is create fear of investing in other businesses, because companies won't feel comfortable investing as long as they don't know what moral stance the government is or is not going to take.
We think either the state needs to be clear that it's going to ban all types of exploitative business, which would be very difficult, or it needs to turn a watchful eye, but not a blind eye, to these types of multilevel marketing businesses to ensure that they don't become true pyramid schemes.
So, ultimately, because we would prefer people to have legal recourse in the open if they are involved in this type of scheme as a victim, and because we think the law needs to be principally consistent, we should not ban multilevel marketing schemes.
Thank you.