We're going to explain to you this evening how casinos do more good than harm.
So I think what's important to remember, as you think about this issue, is that gambling exist no matter what.
So the question is only about the effect of gambling in a casino as opposed to in another environment which is probably going to be less controlled and less regulated than a casino would be.
So two propositions.
The first is that casinos bring wealth into areas that are otherwise pretty badly off.
Basically what you can see when a casino is built is oftentimes redistributing wealth from richer areas to poorer ones.
If you imagine a place like las vegas, you have people coming in from around the world to gamble in what would otherwise be a desert city with no other sort of industry, so we think that they're clearly better off because of casinos bringing people in.
It's the only industry that they're able to have because they don't have any other natural attractions.
We think that in particular this allows you to create tourism were otherwise there would be none.
Some parts of the world are blessed with historical or natural attractions that bring people in to visit, but when we don't have those things we need to create attractions in order to bring in tourism, if that's going to be a type of industry that's developed and this is an industry that's very helpful in a lot of regions.
So we think that casinos are good because they're able to bring in tourists and create wealth in an area.
But we also tell you that casinos can revitalize an area that's doing poorly.
If you have a place that used to have lots of visitors that no longer does, oftentimes a casino can reverse that trend and make it a more appealing place to visit, particularly because there aren't many casinos in most countries.
So we tell you that the benefits to a community of having more industry because of tourism, because remember when a casino goes in you need hotels, need restaurants, you need other things for people to do, all of this industry more than outweighs any harms to the individual gamblers who are losing their money at the casino, so were okay with this on our side.
Our second proposition is that we think that casinos allow us to better regulate gambling.
So we think that, although it's not going to go away, gambling probably isn't an objectively good thing.
However, sunlight is an excellent disinfectant.
If gambling is open and legal and going on at a regulated casino, then there's probably going to be less abuse of people's addictions and weaknesses than there would be if gambling were going on at shady illegal gambling parlors, which we think is the alternative.
We think that it's possible to tax the revenue and use it to do things like build schools, which you just wouldn't have if people were gambling illegally and there was no government taxation.
We also think that it's more likely that you can limit participation when you have gambling in casinos.
In other words, if you want to say that people have to be twenty one, or can't be gambling addicts in order to participate in gambling, a casino can enforce those rules in order to get a license or maintain their ability to have a business, whereas an illegal gambling parlor simply wouldn't care about this.
We also tell you that organized crime is going to be weaker in their control of gambling if you have casinos.
Recognize that business owners don't want to pay money to organized crime for protection but that they have to, oftentimes if their actions are illegal.
But if they're above board it's more possible for legitimate businesses to come in and establish casinos, and we think that ultimately, that is broadly preferable to having casinos run illicitly, or gambling parlors and things like that that are controlled by organized crime.
So a couple points of rebuttal to the last speaker before I finish.
The last speaker says that casinos are abusive to gamblers.
But on our side, gamblers are still going to exist, so it's about how do we help them better and we can better regulate this and actually provide resources for people like gambling addicts on our side of the debate.
But on top of that, we think that other people who aren't addicts are free to choose whether or not they want to gamble, so casinos are not necessarily taking advantage of those people.
And even if you don't believe all that, we think that the community benefits outweigh the harms to the individual gamblers because they're a much smaller number of people.
And even if, as we heard earlier, the visitors to casinos behave poorly and aren't the ideal visitors and guests, we still think that they are preferable to no industry and that this is why so many regions want casinos.
So at the end of the day, we think that casinos do more good than harm.
Thank you.