We should not abandon the use of disposable diapers.
Bear in mind that the world that sam describes, where we only use reusable, probably cloth, diapers used to exist and that people moved away from it towards disposable diapers for a reason.
Right now in the status quo, every family has a choice about whether they want to use cloth diapers or disposable diapers, and the fact that people who can afford to do so overwhelmingly choose to use disposable diapers should tell you everything that you need to know about why people want to use them: namely, they're convenient and easy to use in a way that cloth diapers never will be.
So, with that in mind, our first argument is about consumer choice.
We think that individual parents know what is best for their child and know what's best for their family better than government regulators ever will.
Even if the people drafting this legislation know what would be best, on aggregate, they'll never have enough information about individuals to make fair judgments about what individuals do and do not need.
Therefore, we think that it should always be left up to consumers what goods they should consume as long as they're not directly harming anyone else.
Now, sam would probably say that the high environmental impact of disposable diapers constitutes a harm to other people and that this is why the government should intervene, but I don't think that's enough.
People do things that are drastically harmful to the environment every day.
I live in the desert and I took a shower today, drastically damaging to the environment.
I drove a car to work yesterday, drastically damaging to the environment.
I'm going to take a plane ride in a couple of days, drastically damaging to the environment.
Ultimately, it's unfair to single out this one convenience that's very important to parents just because it has some environmental harms when every other class in society is still allowed to drive and do other things that are much worse for the environment.
Diapers aren't the tipping point for global warming, so there's no reason that we should single them out just because of some minor environmental harms.
But our next argument is that rather than ban disposable diapers, we should just make them less damaging to the environment.
Ultimately, I'm sure that we can create biodegradable diapers that don't sit in landfills for years and that actually break down much more quickly.
It's unclear to me why you can have compostable soda cups and knives and forks, but you can't have compostable diapers, for instance.
So we think that that would be a relatively easy solution to many of the problems that sam points out.
He also talks about the fact that diapers are too expensive right now for many people to afford.
But, if anything, we should just drive down the cost of diapers by increasing the amount of companies that produce them so that there's more competition and prices go down, or perhaps offer subsidized diapers to low-income parents the way that we offer subsidized baby formula and things like that.
Ultimately, we want more people to be able to make a choice rather than be compelled by poverty to use cloth diapers in particular.
Which leads into our last point which is that this would be really bad for parents.
The main reason, as I alluded to earlier, that people use these cloth these disposable diapers rather than cloth ones is that they're very convenient.
If you have a working parent who doesn't have a lot of time to spend changing their child's diaper, then these disposable diapers are a godsend for them.
They save you hours every week having to clean them and, ultimately, they're much more convenient.
So this would really only harm parents if you implemented this policy, and it wouldn't benefit anyone else very much.
So we don't think that that's a very good policy if it harms one important class of people to no one else's benefit.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abandon disposable diapers.
Thank you.