We should not abolish double jeopardy protections.
I'd like to be very clear about what this debate is about.
We think that it would be grossly abusive if the state were able to try someone, receive an innocent verdict, and then continue to try them repeatedly, which is what happens if you don't have double jeopardy protections.
The other side wants to frame this as: " oh people are getting away with all of these crimes because of double jeopardy protections ".
But we tell you that in fact conviction rates are extremely high because prosecutors in most countries only bring cases to court if it seems likely that they're going to win.
So we don't think that most of the problems brought up and sam's speech are actually very concerning for the justice system.
Three arguments in favor of double jeopardy protections: the first is about the guiding principles of a liberal legal system.
We tell you it is better for ten guilty people to go free than one innocent person to go to jail.
Ultimately, the reason why the burden of proof lies with the government rather than with the accused is because we want to avoid the state taking advantage of its power, more on that in just a minute, to put innocent people in prison.
We think that it is much more unjust for the state to put innocent people in jail, which is more likely without double jeopardy protections, than for a few guilty people to get away as a consequence.
With double jeopardy protections being eroded, as the other side proposes, many more innocent people will go to jail because it will be easier for the state to continue to try them over and over again, until they get the result that they want.
And remember that it will be possible to convict anyone if you don't have double jeopardy protections.
Why?
Both sides reveal all of their evidence in a trial.
So now the state is able to access all of the evidence that the defense would have brought forward, plan for it, come up with a way to work around it and then bring the case to trial once more, whereas the defendant has no ability to improve their understanding of the case, because they already had access to the state's evidence, at least in the US.
So we think that this is grossly abusive.
It basically gives the state a do-over knowing the other side's cards in an unfair way.
Our second argument is about the imbalance of power between citizen and state.
We tell you that ultimately, individuals who are brought to court are spending lots of money on lawyers, are not working, are often time spending time in jail, and that this presents a huge burden on them.
There is no such burden on the state to bringing a case to trial.
For the state ultimately the costs are extremely marginal.
The people who were working on the case don't really suffer from it and it doesn't cost very much money compared to the states net incomes.
So there's a huge imbalance of power here.
We think the only way to correct for it, to prevent abuse by the state, such as draining all the person's funds or keeping them in jail unfairly, is to have double jeopardy protections.
Because otherwise the state can just continue to bring suits against someone for political or other reasons in a grossly unjust way.
Our final argument is that we get better trials.
The state has an incentive to be lazy or to be disingenuous if double jeopardy protections don't exist.
The other side will tell you that trials are expensive so the state doesn't want to have a second trial, but in particular for high profile or politicized cases, we think that there is every incentive for the state not to do their utmost to get a conviction in the first trial.
Because they're so likely to get a conviction in a re-trial, or if they bring this charge against someone again, we think it's very likely that the state will fail to use their evidence in the most intelligent way and ultimately waste taxpayer funds without double jeopardy protections.
Why is this true?
Defense attorneys stand to benefit because they can try high profile cases and get high profile convictions, judges stand to benefit because, again, high profile cases are more likely to help their political careers, and politicians stand to benefit because they can appear tough on crime by refusing not to retry someone who was found innocent.
So we think that there are a lots of incentives for everyone to behave poorly.
For all of these reasons we should not abolish double jeopardy defense.
Thank you.