We should not subsidize agriculture.
So, in the status quo in many countries such as the united states, the government gives huge amounts of money to farms and other agricultural businesses to subsidize their production of food.
We have two big arguments why we think this shouldn't go on.
The first is that it encourages over production.
So, recognize that if you are paid to produce, whether or not anyone is consuming your products, then ultimately, your incentives are completely divorced from the market.
So right now, dairy farmers in the united states, for instance, produce far more milk than anybody is able to drink before it spoils.
So we see that there's lots of milk going to waste, but farmers continue to produce it anyway.
The net effect of these subsidies, is that the federal government is buying milk to pour down the drain.
We just don't think this makes any sense to use of limited government funds, to use it to support people producing milk that nobody wants.
And this is the outcome of subsidies, they create inefficiencies in the market that would be solved otherwise, because without subsidies, there would be fewer dairy farmers and there will be less milk produced and that milk would be more, like, similar to the actual demand for milk in around the world.
But we also tell you that this harms other farmers abroad.
In particular, if a country with a huge agricultural base like the united states or china has agricultural subsidies, then they flood global markets with really cheap goods and farmers elsewhere can't compete.
The reason why people in a lot of sub saharan african countries are eating american corn instead of grain grown in their own country, is that the US taxpayers are heavily subsidizing corn production in the united states, so it's so much cheaper than corn produced and sold according to an actual free market in other countries, that they can never compete, and domestic farmers in those countries are greatly harmed by this, and can't support themselves and can't continue their business.
We think that this is harmful because, since many countries promote free trade, broadly speaking we think that subsidies undermine that, and make it more difficult to have free trade across borders.
Our second argument is that we think this is an abuse of government power.
So basically what happens when you have agricultural subsidies, is you take tax money from low income people, and give it to very wealthy farmers.
Recognize that farming today is not mom and pop on some farm out in the midwest growing a little bit of corn.
It's huge multi billion dollar industry with massive companies that actually control huge swathes of farmland.
So we think that this is basically transferring money from low income people to the very wealthy people who actually own those companies and are taking all of the profits.
We think that that's also really harmful because, when things go bad because these companies are mismanaged, they can get away with it from subsidies, so the profits are all private and the risk is all public.
We think that that's fundamentally unfair to the americans who can't keep that money for themselves to spend it on their own needs, or to invest it as they see fit.
We also think that it's unfair for the government to pick favorites.
Basically, we think it's unjust that agricultural businesses get subsidies and other businesses don't.
Now, farmers might say that they're the most important people in society, but I bet doctors say that too, so why do we subsidize agriculture and not other industries more heavily, or why do we subsidize agriculture and expect certain other industries like the automotive industry to function in a more free market?
We think that you're effectively picking winners and losers here, and all companies are in a certain amount of direct competition because, if they're publicly owned they're all competing for people to buy their stocks, and to raise capital, so we think that there are real harms to other companies, because we have these heavy agricultural subsidies.
But the last point that I'd like to make, is that I think that it forces individuals to buy products that they might not want to support.
This is especially true because the agricultural industry is so controversial.
If you think about how many people around the world choose not to eat meat because they think it's unethical, we think that that's a huge amount of people, but subsidies force them to support the meat industry because if something goes wrong in the industry, the difference is made up for by the government stepping in with subsidies, so you're basically making people purchase a good that they think is unethical against their will, and we don't think that should be the role of government.
So we should not subsidize agriculture because it encourages market inefficiency and because it's a misuse of government power.
Thank you.