We should not ban lotteries.
Three arguments for our side: first, lotteries are a useful fundraising tactic.
Many people can be persuaded to give money to a cause if they think there's a potential that they win out by doing so.
So, for instance, most US states, perhaps all of them, have education lotteries, where you can go to convenience stores or gas stations and buy lottery tickets, and most of the proceeds go towards like building new school buildings and things like that.
So we see that ultimately the end here is good, and we think that this good end justifies the means.
If people want to choose to spend their money on a lottery, we think that ultimately it can be done in a socially beneficial way by having the money go towards things like education or other socially useful ends.
While it might be true that private lotteries are not a good thing because the money just goes into wealthy people's pockets, we think that state or government-run lotteries ultimately can do a lot of good for society by letting people choose to have fun, while also supporting things that are good for their communities.
Our second argument is that if you ban lotteries, they'll still simply go underground.
Consider gambling, because I think this is roughly analogous.
Some people think that gambling is stupid or that it's morally wrong.
So, in many areas of the world, gambling is not permitted.
But that doesn't mean that people don't gamble.
They go to illegal places to gamble instead, and there's no taxation collected and no regulation.
So what ends up happening is that people continue to spend their money, and gambling addicts are still taken advantage of, but the state doesn't collect any tax on it, so none of that money goes toward socially useful ends, and because it's illegal, it empowers criminals rather than legal business owners.
We think this is probably true for the lottery as well.
First of all, consider that the lottery appeals to the same impulses as other forms of gambling.
You're taking a risk with your money with the hope of winning something back, and people get a thrill from that risk.
We think that people will continue to play lottery-style games, even if you ban them.
People will either start illegal underground private lotteries that people will participate in, or perhaps you'll have online lottery betting sites, the way that you have illegal sports gambling websites in many parts of the united states today.
A black market is obviously less preferable to regulation, even if you think that the product is immoral.
I personally think that lotteries are probably amoral, that people can participate with good or bad intentions and can operate then with good or bad intentions.
But it's certainly the case that even if lotteries were bad, that they'll go on either way.
At that point, we should try to minimize the harms to society by channeling those to good ends.
I talked about fundraising earlier and that's an example of these good ends.
But at the very least, through regulation you can ensure that people actually win the prizes that they deserve.
You can ensure that people aren't being threatened and that there's no violence involved, and ultimately we think that this is preferable to letting organized crime or other groups have control over lotteries.
Our third and final argument is that people should be free to do what they want.
We're okay with banning participation in lotteries for people under eighteen, which is already the case in the US and many other parts of the world, but we think that fundamentally people know what's in their own interests better than the state does.
For instance, it's certainly true that you would live longer and be healthier if you didn't drink alcohol, but the state allows us, in most free countries, to go out and buy alcohol once we're adults, because individuals can make free decisions about what's in their interest.
They know if they need a drink or would enjoy this, and it's up to them to make that decision, not the state.
We think the same is probably true of lotteries.
Yes, it's a waste of money, but at the point where people enjoy it and have fun doing it, we think they should be free to do so as long as they're consenting adults who understand how they're acting.
And this undercuts much of what rachel told you about why the state needs to intervene, because people really do have access to this information.
They understand that it's hard to win the lottery.
For these reasons, we should not ban lotteries.
Thank you.