We should ban hate sites.
By this we mean websites which promote hate speech.
An example of this would be stormfront, which is a major white supremacist website based in the united states.
We think that governments should shut down these websites when they're run in their own country and that they should also limit the ability of their citizens to access those websites, using some sort of national firewall.
Three arguments for our side this evening.
The first is that these sites a disproportionate harm to certain groups, and therefore the state needs to ban them.
Oftentimes governments step in when one particular group faces an extreme harm or risk of harm because of another group's actions.
This is the principle that underlies hate speech laws in the public sphere offline.
The idea that racist, or anti-semitic, or otherwise bigoted speech presents a very real threat to one particular group because of their past discrimination towards that group or because of violence toward them, and therefore that the government can intervene to protect that group, even if they wouldn't have to do so for some other people.
Ultimately, we think that many of these hate sites constitute a disproportionate harm.
The same types of hate groups that we would keep a close eye on or shut down in the public sphere, groups like the ku klux klan or neo-nazis, are using these websites to get around the law as it exists right now.
So we think it's clear that the same kind of disproportionate harm that would exist from allowing a klan rally in a black neighborhood or a group to have nazi flags outside a synagogue, ultimately also exists online.
Even if it seems less visceral in some ways, the harms are the same of allowing this type of activity and organization to continue.
Our second argument is that this leads to the radicalization of young people.
One of the biggest problems with the internet is that it's an echo chamber.
When you have young people who, because of memes or curiosity, stumble upon these types of websites, they're likely to read the content and not hear any of the other ideas that exist.
For instance, some of these people might go on to sites like stormfront, that are full of holocaust denial materials, and internalize those ideas and believe that the holocaust was some sort of jewish conspiracy, which would then lead them to be anti-semitic and bigoted in their everyday lives.
Now, obviously, this is a stupid argument for those people to believe, but because the internet is such an echo chamber, they're not likely to see the countervailing facts that would prove to them that the holocaust really did happen.
So we think that these sites can uniquely contribute to radicalizing young people, which is a huge risk, because those people then go on to join groups like the ku klux klan, like neo-nazi groups, and present a violent threat to real people in the real world.
Much of this wave of far-right violence in the US and europe currently can be traced back to the use of the internet as a tool for people to gather and radicalize.
Our third and final argument is that these sites pose a threat to liberal democracies.
Karl popper said that if we tolerate intolerance, we run the risk of losing out on all tolerance.
What he meant by this is that when you allow groups to exist who want to undermine tolerance, you are putting at risk the future of tolerance in your country.
When groups who want to destroy democracy, send black people back to africa, kill jews or gays or moslems, are allowed to gather online, you run the risk that in the future, those groups will pick up steam and ultimately undermine the checks that prevent people from being abusive in the status quo.
So even though freedom of speech is important, when you extend it to people who want to destroy freedom in the future, you run the risk of ending that freedom of speech, and therefore we need to elide it for these hate sites in particular.
For all of these reasons, we should ban hate sites.
Thank you.