We should abandon the insanity plea.
So by this we mean that in western countries they should get rid of the ability for defendants to plead that they are innocent because of mental illness.
This is distinct from saying that we should treat these people exactly the same as anyone else.
Were okay with having, you know, sentencing people to time in mental hospitals, or holding people in separate conditions, or treating mental illness as a mitigating factor, but we don't think that you should be able to use mental illness as the only reason to be found not guilty for committing a crime.
Two reasons: the first is about the rights of victims.
Recognize that when you have been the victim of a crime, you deserve recompense and you deserve retribution.
But how do you get recompense and retribution?
Well first of all, if there's been some sort of financial damage to you, we think that deserves to be fulfilled.
If someone is found not guilty, recognize that neither they nor their insurance can be made to pay out as a result of their actions, because those aren't their actions as such.
So we think that finding someone not guilty due to criminal insanity ultimately is going to allow them to avoid paying out to the victim, which means that the victim has suffered a harm and isn't receiving any compensation to make up for that harm.
We think this is very unjust.
Just because someone has mental illness doesn't mean that they shouldn't have to pay for damage that they do, or that their insurance shouldn't have to pay out for damage that they do.
So ultimately, we see that there is a clear harm to the victims of crimes who would be receiving compensation and who aren't because of these not guilty or non sentencing because of the insanity plea.
But next, we think that victims deserve to have some sort of retribution.
If you've suffered a violent crime for instance, we think that you deserve to know that the person who harmed you is being punished for their actions, and that you are safe.
We think that the only way that this can be guaranteed is by convicting the criminal so that we can actually put them away and keep them away from the general public.
This is the only way that the victim can feel safe, and to know that justice has been done.
Since the victim has done nothing wrong, we think that they ought always be prioritized above the accused, and in this instance that means putting their recompense and retribution above some perceived harm to the criminal.
So our second reason why we ought not or why we ought abandon the insanity plea is about why we actually convict in the first place.
So recognize that when we convict people, normally we look for a guilty deed and a guilty mind.
So something bad that happened, and some ill intent that because that bad thing to happen.
The guilty deed obviously had to happen.
If nothing's gone wrong then there's no reason for there to be a criminal trial.
But the guilty mind sometimes isn't enough.
So we tell you that for instance, manslaughter in the US is a crime when you kill someone without intent.
So you have the guilty deed but not the guilty mind.
But people still go to jail every year for manslaughter.
So we see that the state can punish people, even if they were acting not with any particular intent, simply because of the guilty deed.
So it may be true that a criminally insane person doesn't have a guilty mind, but if their actions lead to death or grave harm, we think that it would be principally consistent with this idea to put them in jail simply for the guilty act they or guilty deed that they've committed.
But on top of that, we're okay with convicting people of a lesser crime if necessary.
So for instance, if somebody was on trial for killing another person, maybe because of mental illness they would be found not to have had a guilty mind and so they would be put away for manslaughter rather than put away for murder in the second or first degree, but ultimately some punishment would still be meted out, and justice would still be done.
We think that that would be a better way to handle these scenarios than to have an insanity plea that would then lead to no punishment or no acknowledgement that this person committed a crime.
Sp for these reasons, we think that we should abandon the insanity plea.
Thank you.