We should ban smoking.
So I think it's clear in this debate that we're talking about tobacco products writ large cigarettes, cigars, whatever you want to talk about, as well as other forms of smoke drugs like marijuana.
So with that said, we have two main arguments for why we think we should ban smoking.
Before I get into those though I want you to recognize that this isn't a debate about whether smoking is harmful for people's health, obviously that's true.
It's a debate about how the state ought act.
The government of a country is the actor in this debate and that's the perspective that you need to have as you consider what we should do.
Our first argument then is about when the government should paternalize.
When the government should intervene and limit citizens freedom because it knows their own best interest better than they know it themselves.
We're gonna set out a two part standard.
The first is when there is a an asymmetry of information between two actors.
We see that, for instance, governments don't let children enter into contracts.
Now this is of course a limitation on children's personal freedom and it might be the case that some children are intelligent and precocious enough that they would want to enter into contracts but because by and large children lack decision making ability and access to information the government intervenes to protect them on the assumption that adults would always have more information and be able to take advantage of them.
In the same way government also limits adults from making certain choices.
You can't contract yourself into slavery, for instance, because you aren't able to fully internalized the harms that that will happen over the long term so the state intervenes.
Now given that when we talk about the tobacco industry you have huge very powerful corporations with massive marketing budgets and the ability to manipulate scientific information available to the public.
We think that it's clear that adults in a given country do not have enough access to information to make an informed decision about smoking and therefore that the government ought to intervene on their behalf to prevent them from making harmful decisions.
We think that by and large we're okay with people making bad decisions when they have access to information, but not when they're being misled intentionally.
The second part of our standard is when there are third party harms and this is clearly true of smoking.
It's a well known fact that second hand smoke puts people at risk of lung cancer.
This is why in a lot of places around the world like many cities in europe and the united states, you now can't smoke in bars and restaurants.
We think that because even though smoking is a personal choice it affects everyone around you that it ought not be permitted.
The other team might tell you that it would be acceptable to just ban smoking in public and that that would get the same solvency but that still doesn't do things like protect children whose parents smoke or the partners that people who smoke.
We think that at the end of the day, the only reasonable course of action to protect these third parties who are harmed by individual choice to smoke is to ban smoking in itself.
Our second argument, which is completely independent from the first, is about why there's a compelling state interest in banning smoking.
What do we mean by this?
Governments in almost every country in the world provide for citizens health care that might be through something like medicare and medicaid in the states or national health in britain.
We see therefore that governments are ultimately going to pay more money into their health care systems to care for people who have smoked throughout their lives because these people are at such a high risk for diseases like emphysema that are so expensive to treat, what this means is that the state has a financial interest in limiting the number of people who smoke in order to keep down health costs in the future.
This is important for a couple of reasons and should decide how you feel about this debate.
One, money is fungible.
Any money that the state puts towards helping people with emphysema and lung cancer isn't money that's being put towards primary education, or researching a cure for diabetes and other good things that the state could be doing but two, people are making a conscious decision right now that makes them a burden on the state in the future.
We think that we should limit their ability to do so because effectively people are able to free ride in many countries when they have nationalized health and they don't bear the cost of their choice to smoke.
We should prevent them from making that choice because it is antisocial and harms other people.
So because of the standard we set up for when the state can intervene and because of the compelling state interest we should ban smoking.
Thank you.