We should not abolish the united nations security council veto.
We have two arguments for our side: the first, that the veto encourages buy in from the world's most powerful countries, and the second, that the united nations lacks the ability to go against the wishes of a council member without enormous costs.
Before I get into these two points, I'd like to acknowledge that perhaps it's time to change the members of the security council.
Maybe it's true that we should give the european union one spot rather than france having a spot, and also add india to the council.
But we think that although the security council might need to be expanded or contracted, depending on your point of view, it's still a useful institution.
So why is it important to get buy in?
Our first argument.
The veto is basically what makes the united nations useful.
If there's no security council veto then there's no reason for powerful countries like russia or the united states, which can impose their will globally without need for recourse to the united nations, to participate in the united nations.
We see that in the past the united nations has been extremely successful at preventing war between powerful countries.
One reason why the cold war never turned hot and why there was never a nuclear war between the soviets and the americans was that they were able to use the united nations as a way to express what was acceptable and unacceptable to them on a global scale.
So we see that while proxy wars did take place, for instance in vietnam for the americans or afghanistan for the soviets, ultimately we didn't have another war in europe on the scale of world war two because both countries were able to veto changes to the balance of power or to the status quo, which would have put their back to the wall.
So this is ultimately a huge good for everyone in the world.
Because a war between great powers is likely to kill millions of people and have tremendous cost for the future, particularly in the age of nuclear weapons.
So we think that it's essential to maintain the UN veto, so that countries continue to rely on the UN as a way to do business.
If you took away the veto then policies that were unacceptable to a great power might be passed and ultimately they would have their back against the wall and be forced to use force to maintain their will.
Our second argument is about how there's no ability to go against a council member without huge costs.
Now, the important example here is the korean war.
In the lead up to the korean war, the soviet union had withdrawn from the united nations temporarily, I think over recognition of ukraine or something like that.
But anyway, what's important here is that the united states and its allies invaded korea because the soviets couldn't veto it while they weren't participating in the united nations.
This led to a war that had about five million casualties which ultimately led the US and the soviets to come much closer to war than they did before and almost anytime after, except the cuban missile crisis.
So we think that because the korean war was such a catastrophe, that didn't even end up resolving the issues that it should have resolved, namely the devision of the peninsula, that this isn't a model we want to follow.
If you want to avoid future conflicts like korea, the best way to do it is to encourage great powers not to withdraw from the UN like the soviet union did, but rather to participate in it and prevent these conflicts from coming to pass.
Because the cost of going up against the will of a great power is so high, as we saw when the US and china fought in korea, or as we ran the risk of throughout the twentieth century with the united states and russia, no one should be willing to accept that cost.
So even if the council were to pass resolutions which are globally popular but go up against the wishes of one of these veto countries they couldn't be implemented, so ultimately we might as well just have the veto to prevent grand standing and escalation of tensions, which seems likely to arise if we remove the veto.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abolish the UN security council veto.
Thank you.