We should not subsidize women in science.
I want to be clear before I get into our arguments what this debate is about.
I don't think it's fair for sam to characterize scholarships and academic aid as subsidies, because these are being paid out to individuals to further their education in a very specific way.
I think, normally, when we talk about subsidies, we're talking about corporations or organizations.
So, for instance, what this might look like, this is basically the second part of sam's model, is that women working in science would get preferential treatment.
So sam said they would get a tax break.
I think that another fair way to conceive of this debate would be that labs who employ women would get preferential treatment for national science foundation or european science organization grants and that sort of thing.
I think that's pretty clearly what this debate is meant to be about.
With that in mind, our first argument is that this won't actually get more women into science.
Sam is correct that university scholarships will encourage more women to go into science, but I really don't think that's what this debate is about, because those aren't subsidies.
Ultimately, in order to get more women into science, you need to start early.
You need to get girls interested in science when they're in primary education, and then encourage them to continue it in secondary education.
You need more girls enrolled in calculus classes at high school, in physics classes in high school, so that when they get to university they have the skills that they need to major in chemistry or engineering and all of these other fields that we don't have enough women going into right now.
The problems in our society are structural at a much lower level than universities or than science labs and ultimately, without increasing spending on things like elementary education for science, I don't think that you're going to see a real change here.
We also need to change the way the people talk about science because, right now, a lot of teachers, especially at the primary and secondary level, discourage girls implicitly from going into science by portraying it as a more masculine field as opposed to, say, english or art.
So we need to change the culture and we need to change the early education, so that these girls grow up to want to be scientists.
It's about getting marie curie on to people's text books instead of albert einstein and that sort of thing.
The next argument that I'd like to make is that this is a poor use of subsidy funds.
Obviously it's important to increase the amount of women in science, but this is happening anyway in the status quo.
In the united states, about fifty five percent of college students are women, and the gender imbalance is increasing in women's favor every year.
More and more women are going to med school and into other scientific fields as we speak.
Right now, a big part of the imbalance is that essentially every scientist who's fifty and over is a man, but if you look at younger groups, it's still imbalanced but getting better.
So this is already improving right now.
We don't need these subsidies necessarily to be effective.
But the other thing that I'd like to say about this is that subsidies are an investment in our scientific future.
What do I mean by that?
Basically, when the state invests money in a certain field, it's because they're hoping to get a return that'll be beneficial for society, and that's fundamentally a different type of benefit than helping women.
We already spend a lot of money on that, and we should do more to do things like go after people who are sexist in the workplace.
But ultimately, when we invest money in cancer treatment, it should be invested in the best possible cancer treatment, not some sort of affirmative action.
If that means that the leading researcher on this happens to be a man, then we should be changing to schools that created that circumstance, not investing in an inferior lab that might not find that cure for cancer or that cure for diabetes.
Because ultimately, if you want to help more women, getting a cure for diabetes would affect many more people than helping twenty more women go to MIT every year.
The other side just isn't thinking about the long-term effects of this research.
And the effect even on women is much greater if we focus on results rather than anything else.
Thank you.