We should not subsidize investigative journalism.
Before I get into my three points I'd just like to respond briefly to something tim said.
He tells you that in this time when there's so much fake news and corruption in the media that it's important that we have good hard hitting honest journalism.
But newspapers like the guardian and the new york times already provide this journalism and people choose not to believe it because it's inconvenient.
And this isn't a new phenomenon either.
This has been a problem throughout history.
So before we even get into our points I'd just like to tell you that no matter how good the new york times or the guardian or other newspapers are they will never be able to change people's minds who don't want to be convinced.
So this won't be effective.
That said our first argument is that this undermines journalistic independence.
Right now journalists for major newspapers in most countries are paid for either by money coming into their newspaper company from ads or by endowments.
So the guardian is a famous example of a paper that has its own endowment so no government or private entity funds them and that does the kind of journalism that's inconvenient for governments.
For instance they published many of the edward snowden secret files when those first came to light.
So this is really a great example of a paper that does the kind of work that tim tells you that we want.
But if the guardian were now competing for government subsidies in order to be able to receive more funds and do better than other competing newspapers they probably wouldn't be as willing to publish things like articles on edward snowden.
They wouldn't be willing to do things like smuggle information out of britain to neutral countries so they could report on crimes committed by their government without fear of reprisal.
So ultimately because that's the kind of journalism that's important being willing to report on something even though scotland yard raids your office and beats up your reporters ultimately you would lose that if you had these subsidies because you would undermine that journalistic independence.
Our second argument is that this punishes other journalists.
Implicit to a lot of tim's arguments is the idea that investigative journalism is uniquely valuable.
These kind of big picture stories that reveal massive corruption scandals like the one in brazil last year.
But ultimately run a run of the mill every day journalism is just as important.
People need to know what's going on in their community.
People need to know about whether the school buses aren't going to run or what the weather's going to be.
And when you reward one type of journalism at the expense of every other type newspapers are going to turn away from providing that workaday information which is probably more useful to most people most of the time.
So we think that ultimately this punishes other journalists by making them comparatively less profitable and will lead to a change in the type of information provided that will ultimately not serve the interest of most people.
And our final argument is that this would be a poor use of government funds.
Recognize that all state funding is fungible.
If it's spent in one area it's not spent in another area.
So when you spend money on journalistic subsidies that's money that you're not spending on free lunch for poor school children.
It's money that you're not spending to clean up chemicals in the water.
There are many other uses of government funds that are more important to people's well being than this type of journalism.
If you don't have enough to eat if your water isn't safe if your community has been blighted by natural disaster you don't care about what's being published in the new york times.
You need the government to help you in a material sense right then and there.
And these people are much more needy.
They're less able to help themselves than these journalists who already have funds.
So we think that ultimately this is a poor use of government funds compared to other things we could spend on.
For all these reasons we should not subsidize journalism.
Thank you.