Assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
We have four arguments for our side in the debate this evening.
The first is that assisted suicide is a victimless crime.
Recognize that in order for an assisted suicide to take place, you need somebody who already has given informed consent to opt in.
We tell you that although the other side says that someone who is requesting assisted suicide can never actually be making an informed decision, we think that that is an unfair statement.
We think that people who are extremely ill can make a rational decision after receiving advice from a doctor about whether or not they want to pursue assisted suicide as an option.
So at that point, what we have is a so-called crime in which the person actually dying has opted in freely, with informed consent, same standard that we would use for any other medical operation, and the doctor is fulfilling a medical request by a patient.
So we don't think that there's actually the grounds here for us to say that any crime has taken place.
At that point, it ought not be a criminal offense.
Our second argument is that making this a criminal offense amounts to victim blaming.
Why is this true?
If you even if you don't believe our last argument, we think that if it is true that the person who opts in to assisted suicide is not able to consent, then you're unfairly punishing that person.
So we see that, presumably after the assisted suicide, this person has passed away and the law would be looking at the person's estate, rather than themselves.
We think that you are effectively going after the victim of a crime, if you believe the narrative created on the other side of this debate, and punishing them and their estate when you make this a criminal offense.
There's no other time when we punish someone for being the victim of violence.
So we think that this is inconsistent with the law in liberal countries.
But on top of that, we think that these people, if it is true what the other side says, they're not in their right state of mind, deserve our pity and help, rather than punishment and judgment.
Our third argument is that we think that this entrenches harmful norms.
What do we mean by this?
We think that there's a tendency in society to view people who want to end their own life in a tremendously negative light.
We think that these people deserve our sympathy and love and help, rather than blame as being weak.
We think that, in fact, these people are put in a tremendously difficult situation and that it doesn't reflect any character flaw, that this is the way that they want to resolve that situation.
But when you criminalize assisted suicide, we think that this creates a more negative narrative surrounding suicide and people who commit suicide as a whole.
We think that it normalizes the idea that these people are doing something ethically wrong, even though we think that at worst, this is probably ethically neutral since the person making a decision about their own life.
We think that fundamentally, government should not take action that will create a narrative that will have backlash against an already marginalized community, like those with mental illness.
We think that, if anything, government should promote a narrative of accepting these people and trying to help them, rather than blaming them and that the other side makes this more difficult.
Our last argument is that this harms the families of the person who had the assisted suicide.
So recognize that if you think that the purpose of criminal justice is to punish someone for their wrongdoing or to extract something from them, you can't get that with an assisted suicide because the person has already passed away.
So who can you extract something from, or who can you punish?
Necessarily, only their next of kin, the people who would inherit from their estate.
So what the other side is basically advocating for is to take money away from the widows or children of the people who have this assisted suicide.
We think that those people have already gone through a tragic event in their lives, the loss of a loved one, and don't deserve to be punished more.
But on top of that, we think it's unjust to punish these people who have committed no wrongful action in and of themselves.
We don't think that you should literally punish the son for the crimes of the father, which is what this amounts to.
So for these four reasons, because it's a victimless crime, because it amounts to victim blaming, because it entrenches harmful norms, and because it harms families, assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
Thank you.