We should not ban genetically modified crops.
We're going to present two arguments for our side today.
The first is about food production, and the second is about the anti-science bias and why this doesn't even really make sense.
So, first, how do genetically modified crops affect food production?
One of the most important events of the twentieth century was the so-called green revolution.
This was a transition away from using the old heritage crops, the strains of rice and wheat that were developed in the nineteenth century, note not for thousands of years, developed in the nineteenth century, in favor of new twentieth century crops that were drought and poor weather-resistant.
The most famous of this is called dwarf wheat.
It's a type of wheat that needs less space, less sunlight, and provides about twice as much food as the types of wheat that were in use before the nineteen sixties.
If you've ever asked yourself why did famines go from being an everyday part of life in the developing world to essentially unheard of in the twentieth century, one of the biggest reasons is that food production skyrocketed due to genetically modified organisms such as dwarf wheat.
Food production astronomically increased per capita in many countries, like mexico, where previously people struggled to produce enough food to meet their needs and for export.
So even if there are some harms to genetically modified crops, even if the behaviors of companies like monsanto are really bad, as rachel tells you, we think that the benefit of allowing millions of people to grow enough food to, essentially, ensure that they continue to live and making, essentially, every country in the world food secure is worthwhile, and that they would have to show much larger harms than a few lawsuits in order to justify getting rid of the only reason that there isn't massive famine in countries like india or across sub-saharan africa today.
And just in response to what rachel tells you about patents, she says that these companies abuse their patents to make money, but we tell you that the only incentive for innovation and the development of new strains of different plants or new breeds of animals is the knowledge that you'll be able to recoup your costs.
If farmers can buy one bag of your corn and then reseed their entire field with it the next year, then you're never going to make back the huge investment for research and development that goes into these crops.
So we think because these are absolutely beneficial for humanity and because they're expensive to develop that it's acceptable for these companies to make a profit.
Perhaps they should have to go generic the way drugs do after a couple of decades, but we think that allowing patents, in principle, is still justifiable and that all of the harms rachel tells you are really marginal compared to the massive benefits for the populations of poor countries.
Our second argument is about why it's arbitrary to go after GMOs.
First, what is a genetically modified crop?
If you've ever seen a wild banana, maybe you've seen a picture online, they look nothing like the bananas we buy in the store.
Why?
Bananas are a genetically modified organism.
They were bred into existence by native american peoples.
Similarly, corn or maize, if you prefer, doesn't really exist in its current form in the wild.
It's been bred into the familiar yellow plant we know today from a plant that is different colors and has hardly any kernels compared to modern corn.
It's essentially just the fact that these are spooky and new that makes people want to ban them.
There's no risk to getting more wheat off of a single stalk.
There's no harm to having more corn on every acre of land, especially since today we're just using technology to do more quickly what people used to have to do over the course of decades.
So for all of these reasons, we should certainly not ban genetically modified crops.
Thank you.