We should not ban gambling.
So, we think that people should be allowed to go to casinos, we think that government should offer lotteries, we think that people should be allowed to bet online, and that all of these things should be permitted.
Our first argument is that gambling is not inherently bad.
I think that in order to win this debate the other side has to show you that gambling is some uniquely harmful thing in society.
Because there are lots of things in our society that aren't really good.
I'll talk more about cigarettes and alcohol later in this debate, but we can see that people have many vices in society besides just gambling.
But I'm not even sure that gambling is bad in itself.
How is it any worse for me to go and spend twenty five dollars to play roulette versus to go see a movie at a movie theater?
Either way I'm entertaining myself for a little while by spending money at a business near my house or where I go on vacation.
It just doesn't seem to me that gambling is intrinsically different than going to a movie, or paying to enter a museum, or anything else that people choose to do for fun.
I think the other side has to tell you what is especially bad about gambling.
And if they're only point is that it's not a good use of people's money, well, really neither are movies.
We should probably be saving all the money that we spend to go out on friday nights, rather than spending it on frivolous things.
And since gambling isn't intrinsically problematic it ought not be banned.
But even if you set that aside, our second argument is that if you banned gambling people will just turn to the black market.
How do I know this is true?
I've lived for the last four years in massachusetts which does not have legalized gambling.
It will in the future, but the time that I've lived here it hasn't.
But that doesn't stop people from gambling.
Instead, there were many unlicensed gambling parlors in the state, periodically you hear about the police breaking them up, where people go to play roulette and blackjack and other games.
So we see that where there is a will there's a way and if people want to spend their money on games of chance they'll be able to.
People also place bets online which is very difficult to prevent because you can't just block all of the websites and it's hard to prevent people from spending their money in other places.
People phone in bets to horse races in other states, ultimately people continue to gamble.
So there are two outcomes to banning gambling.
One is that you push people to spend money online or in other states and you hurt your own economy locally, or two, you push people to illegal gambling parlors, many of which are owned by organized crime, and you encourage people to break the law and you strengthen that organized crime by giving them an easy source of capital in the form of rate roulette tables.
So we think that at the end of the day the black market that you get is worse than legal casinos which can be regulated and taxed, and then that money can go to doing something good in society.
Our third and final argument is about the principle inconsistency of banning gambling and not banning other vices.
I already touched on this a little bit earlier but what I mean here is that people spend their money on things that are bad for them every single day.
I could go out right now and I could buy a six pack of beer which is bad for me, I could go buy a pack of cigarettes, so why should I be able to do those things and not gamble?
If anything these things are far worse than gambling because they hurt my physical health.
Gambling does not.
So the only thing that the other side can tell you here is that gambling is bad so we ought to get rid of it.
But at the point where we allow things like drinking and smoking that seem intrinsically much more harmful, it seems inconsistent to punish gambling institutions and allow other institutions to make money on people's other vices.
So at that point I just don't think it's right for the state intervene to ban gambling.
Thank you.