We should not permit sex selection.
So we're arguing that parents should not be able to choose the sex of their child.
We think that one way this could be done is that when people are trying to conceive or use in vitro fertilization or when they go to get an abortion, that medical professionalS should not be allowed to tell them the sex of the child until the point at which they would no longer be able to reverse this process.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for our side.
The first is about how this devalues women, because I want to be completely clear about what this looks like.
The places right now where sex selection is in high demand are societies like india and china, where parents want to have sons because of the idea that traditionally, sons look after their parents after their parents get old whereas daughters look after their husbands' parents.
So they see their children as a kind of social security policy and they have to have sons in order to provide for their own old age.
We think that what happens when you allow sex selection is first of all, that there is a massive decrease in the number of female babies being born.
But what's more, we tell you that women in society are seen even more as a liability because now that people are choosing not to have daughters, we tell you that people who do have daughters because for religious reasons or wealth reasons they're unable to choose to have a son, are going to resent their daughters even more.
But what's more, we tell you that this also just entrenches the idea that daughters are less valuable, because the people who do choose to have daughters will probably be those who have already seen after their own retirement.
So in other words, daughters will be seen as a luxury and sons as a necessity.
So we think that this ultimately creates even more inequality between girls and boys, and that this is something that in the long term will lead to worse treatment for women in general.
Our second argument, and we think the one that's going to be difficult for the other side to beat particularly, is that ultimately this leads to a worse outcome for the entire country.
Because not only are you devaluing women, so half your people are already suffering from that, but also you're going to have a demographic imbalance.
We already see this is the case in china right now where there are many more young boys than there are girls.
This means that when those boys grow up, it'll be more difficult for them to have a wife and have a family.
So ultimately it's going to be likely that you'll have drastically decreased birth rates in the future.
Now there's already a trend towards lower birthrates in more developed countries, but this is exacerbated when there literally are no wives available for young men.
So ultimately we tell you that this decision being made in the short term by each parent to have a son to look after them when they retire is going to lead to your entire country having a declining birth rate in the future.
If this becomes widespread, then you're looking at things like economic decline and social unrest as people are, first of all, unable to have a family like they've been socialized to believe they should and secondly, as there are fewer children being born to work in the future.
So ultimately we think that everyone in your society is worse off if you allow this kind of parental sex selection.
But we also think it's really unfair to the children who are being born.
Because when you grow up in a society that values people going through certain stages of life, where they grow up and they go to school and they get married and they have children, then people learn that's how they're supposed to self-actualize.
But now what you've got is a society where because of the gender imbalance, people aren't going to be able to do this.
Millions of people already in china are not going to be able to get married because there are no women available that they can marry.
And we think that it's unfair to children to cause them to grow up in a society in which they're told how to self-actualize, but demographic realities make that impossible.
You set them up for lives of frustration and unhappiness, and we think this is likely to lead to things like higher rates of crime as people take out their frustration on women because they resent not being able to find a wife.
So at the end of the day, we think that they're going to be many negative social impacts to this policy.
For all these reasons, we should not legalize sex selection.
Thank you.