We should not eliminate unesco.
We're going to present three reasons why the united nations should continue to have unesco and all of its programs.
The first thing I'd like to talk about is that there is literally no reason to get rid of unesco.
Danny tries to present it as though there's some huge waste of money because of unesco, but actually it's a drop in the bucket compared to the UN's budget overall, and if it were eliminated, there's no reason to expect the money would be used on anything good.
I would argue that most of the UN's money is used on things that are actively harmful, such as propping up warlords with peacekeepers, rather than anything beneficial.
So, if anything, moving this money from unesco to the general fund would probably lead to it being used to prop up some african warlord rather than using it to preserve art and culture, which seems like something more beneficial.
But the amount of money here is also pretty small, so we think that the UN can easily afford it.
This is basically just a rounding error in the US contribution to the UN every year.
Our second argument is that we think that culture really does matter and that it's important that we treat it seriously.
Unesco is one of the only global organizations that promotes the preservation of human culture and art and other valuable things.
Without unesco, there would be much less global appreciation of things like ruins because historically, these haven't been seen as very valuable.
There's a reason why most ruins discovered before about nineteen hundred were just built over or not appreciated, and most ruins since then have been preserved.
When the paris metro was first being built, for instance, not a lot of attention was paid to historical artifacts that they found, whereas the rome metro has preserved millions of artifacts, more artifacts than any other excavation in history in its construction, and part of that is because of groups like unesco encouraging people to treat culture seriously.
Ultimately, culture is important to how we view ourselves, and it's important to people's well-being.
Art matters.
Literature matters.
The way that people interact with their own culture matters, and unesco improves all of these things, especially in developing countries, more on that in just a minute, where the government has less ability or just doesn't care as much about actually doing this.
And our final argument is that this helps certain cultures that might otherwise not be appreciated.
One of the great things about unesco is that it doesn't just focus on pompeii and the acropolis.
It focuses on sites in like south america or places in southeast asia that wouldn't get a lot of attention or international funds for their maintenance otherwise.
A site like phnom penh, even though it gets millions of visitors, still might not be able to be maintained at its current level without help from unesco, just because cambodia is such a poor country.
Similarly, many latin american sites such as aztec pyramids in mexico were basically just languishing with no government support for their maintenance until unesco started promoting these things and talking about why they were important.
This isn't to say that we need white people to go in and tell indigenous people that their culture matters.
It's to say that we need international will to encourage governments to protect valuable sites, and moreover that we need to transfer money away from wealthy countries to poorer ones to help them maintain their cultural infrastructure.
Because remember, at its core, unesco redistributes money from countries like the US and britain to poorer countries.
So we think that this is really beneficial.
And we also think under this that it builds awareness of indigenous cultures worldwide.
Many people a hundred years ago wouldn't have included a site like phnom penh in their modern wonders of the world, right?
They would've been much more focused on european sites.
But unesco has really increased the awareness people have of these sites, which increases people's opinions of non-european cultures and increases their appreciation for what all human beings have in common, such as our artistic achievements, rather than thinking that europe is superior to other regions.
So for all of these reasons, we should keep unesco.
Thank you.