We should not legalize public nudity.
On our side, we're going to explain why we think that, in most areas, public nudity is inappropriate and why countries, where it's not presently legal, should not legalize that practice.
Some rebuttal to the arguments we heard from sam will be integrated.
Our first argument is, quite simply, that this makes some people uncomfortable.
Sam portrays this is an issue of positive freedom, one's right to be nude in a public space, but we would argue that this contrasts with the negative freedom of people to be free from nudity that might be offensive or discomforting to them in the public sphere.
Why is this negative freedom more important than the sort of positive freedom sam tells you about?
We would argue, first, that there are many legitimate reasons why someone might be uncomfortable with public nudity.
Many religions, for instance, not only prohibit public nudity, but would also make it very difficult for people to be in a space with people of the opposite sex who are naked.
So, for instance, if you have naked men on the paris metro, that only makes it a more hostile environment for muslim women in particular.
And aside from religious bias, we also think that many people who have been victims of assault who've who have had a bad experience with someone of a different sex might be very uncomfortable with seeing people of that sex out in public, naked.
We think that this can serve to make many spaces closed off to these people who have been victims of assault so that they'll be even less likely to use services like the metro that, in theory, ought be open to everyone.
And we think that because, really, there's no harm to having to wear clothes, despite what sam tells you about the homeless, more on that later, and there is a harm to being exposed to this nudity that, quite clearly, we should defer to protecting people and their negative rights as opposed to the positive right sam tells you about.
Our second argument is that this enforces a kind of public morality.
If there are people who think that public nudity is unacceptable or that people should be modest, this is tantamount to the government telling those people: your way of life is wrong, we shouldn't do this, we should let people do whatever they want.
Now the other side might say that you're doing the same thing enforcing a public morality by banning public nudity but given that that's the status quo, I think it's much less of a statement by the government than the legalization of public nudity would be and, therefore, that that's less of an issue in that case.
Our final argument is that nobody needs public nudity, right?
This is a solution to an imaginary problem, and it creates lots of issues for absolutely no reason.
The only example sam gives you of someone who might need to be nude in public is a homeless person who needs to change their clothes.
But given that homeless people also have to go indoors to use the restroom, have to go into private places to have sex and things like that, we think that there absolutely are opportunities for people to go into a private space.
And for sam to claim that the only way people can change their clothes is to be completely naked in public just doesn't hold true.
I think that for most of us who live in cities that aren't san francisco, it's quite rare to see naked homeless people, yet presumably these people change their clothes occasionally.
So there are solutions to this problem.
And if the only circumstance in which someone could change their clothes was in a public place, we think that that person is probably in a situation where they need the authorities to intervene and help them because, clearly, that person isn't in a position where they can fully take care of themselves.
We recognize that sometimes the authorities being involved can be violent and that's unfortunate, but the alternative of letting that person pose a threat or make other people feel unsafe is not acceptable.
Even if some people would suffer from this, which we just deny, we think that the harm that public nudity has to third parties makes that unacceptable.
Therefore, because of the discomfort this causes people for reasons that are beyond their control, because of the effect this has on public morality, and because this is a solution to an imaginary problem, we should not legalize public nudity.
Thank you.