We should not ban alcoholic beverages.
So I want to be clear, I think there is something missing from the last speaker's debate.
This is around about what a state ought do.
When we say that we're going to ban something, it's not some abstract moral claim, it's a debate about an actual policy.
So with that in mind, we have two arguments.
The first is about whether we should ban it as a state, and the second is about whether we can ban it.
So in terms of whether a government should limits people's freedom, I think that there are three standards that we could look at for when the government ought intervene.
The first is a compelling state interest.
That is to say, if there was some reason that the government and the ability of the government to provide public services was being really severely limited by the fact that people were consuming alcoholic beverages, then we think that it would be acceptable to intervene and prevent people from purchasing them.
I think this is why we don't let people buy bazookas, for instance, in the united states.
It's because it would hinder the ability of the state to be successful, it maintaining a monopoly of violence, if people could blow up tanks.
But clearly that's not the case with alcoholic beverages, they don't infringe on the ability of the government to do its job in any way.
So the second standard that we might look at is whether or not people have access to enough information to make informed decisions about alcohol consumption.
But I think that at the point where most countries provide education to young people about alcohol, where there are warning labels on bottles telling people not to drive drunk, not to drink while they're pregnant, that people do have enough access to make decisions, access to information that is, to make decisions.
The other team might say that people don't have perfect access to information, but at that point we would never be able to allow anyone to do anything.
No one ever has perfect information and adults have to be able to make decisions.
We're fine with limiting alcohol consumption to people over eighteen or twenty one if you're in the states, but we think that at the end of the day, it is not enough of a reason to say that people might make poor decisions to take away their ability to make decisions.
Our last thing that we could say as a reason why the state should ban alcohol would be that people are having lots of third party harms because of alcohol consumption.
Now, the other team might get up here and talk to you about things like drunk driving as an example of a third party harm of alcohol consumption.
But I think that people would make poor decisions with respect to the way that they treat one another, with or without alcohol.
If there's nothing like secondhand smoke when you talk about drinking, it's probably true that you need to ban smoking in public because it really does kill other people who breathe in the fumes.
But no one is harmed, there's no poisonous fumes if I have a gin and tonic, so we don't think that there is actually a real third party harm here.
So with all those things in mind, we don't think that the state should intervene, because under the standards that we've set up, banning alcohol doesn't actually meet any of them.
So our second point is about why we don't think that you can ban alcohol and have a positive outcome.
So if you look to the early twentieth century, when countries like canada, britain and the states experimented with prohibition, what you see is that it led to a lot of violence.
In the US and canada, for instance, you saw people smuggling alcohol over the border and a lot of violence there, you saw the spread of a lot of gangs, you saw the increasing power of organized crime, because they could control alcohol distribution when people couldn't go through legitimate channels.
That's the biggest problem for the other side in this debate.
Ultimately, people who want alcohol are going to find a way to get it, and not just addicts.
For cultural reasons, people are going to want to be able to buy alcohol.
It's an important part of culture in many countries, and people won't just accept it going away.
We think that when alcohol is sold legally, you can regulate it, be sure that it's safe, be sure that the money that's collected from it is going towards legitimate businesses and not towards funding criminals.
If it's under the table, then there's no regulation and people are going to go blind from drinking tainted alcohol, and on top of that, a lot of the money is going to go to organized crime and fund things like drug cartels, rather than funding things like, you know, public drug stores that give money back to the state.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban alcohol.
Thank you.