We should close the guantanamo bay detention camp, but we're going to go even beyond that and say that the US should leave guantanamo bay and give the entire naval base back to cuba.
So, a few reasons why this is true.
First: guantanamo bay rightfully belongs to cuba and the united states stole it from them wrongfully in the twentieth century.
We see that, ultimately, the cuban government never consented to having our naval base there and that the US has maintained this through the use of force, not anything actually legitimate.
We think that this is pretty clearly just theft from the people of cuba.
We've taken over this territory and refused to give it back, even though we acquired it through legal colonial enterprise.
We think that we need to close the base because, ultimately, it's unjust for the united states to take advantage of other countries just because they're weak.
Ultimately, we're able to hold on to gitmo because the cubans can't make us leave, but we think that this is unjust, that the weak shouldn't have to fear the strong, and that it's wrong for the US to take advantage of our power over cuba.
But as a second sort of sub-argument to this, I'll point out that cuba today is not what it was fifty years ago.
The country is increasingly liberalizing and opening itself up to the rest of the world.
We've seen that it's normalized trade with the US, for instance, and we think that we should reward this good behavior by returning the naval base.
We think that maybe there was a case to be made for holding on to it when cuba was one of our enemies fifty years ago, but that's simply not the case anymore, and there's no reason to keep this territory.
Secondly, we think that we need to close down guantanamo bay in order to end the torture camp that's been run there for decades now.
It's illegal to hold and torture people in the united states proper which is why it's being done at this naval base in cuba.
So we think that by closing the base, you make it more difficult for the CIA torture program and other torture programs to continue, you take away the legal fiction that made it possible for them to claim they weren't doing anything wrong.
And obviously, the torture camp needs to be closed.
Tormenting people is contrary to the US values of human dignity and human rights and on top of that, it's ineffective.
Torturing people leads them to tell you what you want to hear, it doesn't actually give you good information.
So this program needs to end and for that reason, we should close guantanamo bay.
But our last argument is about optics.
We think that the US needs to consider its image abroad.
Right now, much of our soft power as a country is derived from being the leader of the so-called free world.
But when you run what amounts to a giant prison camp in cuba and the cubans tell everyone all around the world about how awful it is, we think that that really undermines your ability to drive soft power from that claim.
So look, even if you don't buy the other claims in this round about how the land really belongs to cuba or about how the torture program doesn't work, this is still enough for us to win.
Because if you think it's important that the US is able to spread democracy globally, that the US is able to exert itself through soft power rather than hard power, then you should want to close guantanamo bay, because hypocrisy only empowers the people who want to see you fail.
The existence of gitmo gives people like vladimir putin ammunition to talk about how the US only cares about human rights when it suits us.
If we really want to spread human rights globally, if we really want to spread democracy, then we need to walk the walk as well as talk the talk.
That means closing down guantanamo bay.
And on top of that, things like the US ability to provide trade, to invest in other countries, are also influenced by our soft power.
If we become less ideologically appealing than other countries because we're seen to be lying or doing whatever we want regardless of what the right thing is, then ultimately we're going to lose out on trade deals, lose out on allies, and that does tremendous harm to our ability to do business abroad.
So for these reasons, we should close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
Thank you.