We should not raise the retirement age.
So on our side in this debate we're going to defend keeping the retirement age at sixty five or sixty seven depending on where you live.
If it's different in different regions we're okay with that, but we think that it should not be drastically increased.
Right now most places around the world probably have a retirement age under seventy.
We think that this is a debate about increasing it well into peoples' seventies and we don't think that should happen.
So with that in mind, three arguments.
First, this hurts young workers.
It's very difficult for young people to break into competitive industries right now because so many people aren't choosing to retire until they're very old.
We see that, for instance, in the professoriate.
You have lots of young people who want to become professors who are highly qualified, but no new jobs are opening up because nobody retires.
New universities don't just open up every day so you don't get new sources of jobs that way and it used to be that when professors were retiring regularly in their early sixties, that a certain amount of jobs would open up every year, but now as people remain on faculty longer and longer and longer, no new jobs are opening up for young scholars and this makes it more difficult for people to pursue their own careers and be happy and have the same opportunities that people had fifty years ago, but on top of that we also think that it leads to a worse quality in the job done.
We think that you need a mix of people of different ages in order for an industry to thrive and that you don't get that when all the positions are filled by baby boomers and there's no room for anyone from gen y or millennials because nobody is retiring.
So our second argument is about why this forces people to work too long.
We think that there are many people who are really looking forward to retirement because it's the only time when they'll be able to access certain benefits.
Recognize that the ability to get things like certain government benefits in many countries and access to a pension is based on working up to an official retirement age and that if you don't work to that age, you can't get those benefits.
So on the other side, when they make people work longer, people who really shouldn't be working anymore are unable to claim benefits.
Not everyone ages in the same way.
Some people are a lot more are warn out, let's say, at age sixty five than others are at seventy five.
It partly depends on the type of job that you do.
You know if you're on your feet or if you're working with your hands all day then you're very likely to need to retire sooner than somebody who sits at a desk, and on top of that, things like diet and exercise also determine how people age.
We think that basically everyone is able to keep working till sixty five barring injury, but if you start pushing that into the seventies, people are going to be punished for things like genetics that are completely out of their control and not be able to access government benefits that they ought to be entitled to.
That's the real harm here is that the other side is taking away benefits from people who deserve to be able to claim them because they've been paying in for their entire life.
And this leads nicely into my third argument, which is about how raising the retirement age hides problems with social security and pensions.
Social security in the united states is a ponzi scheme.
It relies on there being more people paying in at the bottom than there are retired.
So the other team tells you that what we need to do is have fewer retirees so that there will be more people working to support them and the system will remain solvent, but ultimately this can never work because there simply are fewer millennials and generation y people than baby boomers.
All they do is hide the problem in the short term so that we're less likely to take action to fix the problem.
The problem is still going to exist and when these people get to whatever the new retirement age is be it seventy, seventy five, you could push it back to a hundred the problem would still come along because there are just fewer people in the younger generation so social security will not be solvent and this is also an issue for pensions.
You're still going to see massive amounts of people retire when a certain generational cohort reaches a certain age.
Pushing it back to a higher age doesn't solve the problem.
At the end of the day it just means that we're not looking for solutions right now because it seems less imminent.
For these reasons we should not raise the retirement age.
Thank you.