We should further exploit small modular reactors.
So in order to make sure this is a clean debate, we want to say that when we mean further exploit we think that this refers to building factories to produce these small modular reactors and encouraging their adoption around the globe.
So we're not talking about something marginal.
We want to see wide scale adoption of these small modular reactors and just as a bit of background, these are basically small nuclear fission reactors which are produced in a factory and then can be sent anywhere in the globe and be installed and start producing energy.
Kind of like the use of oil based generator power plants right now in some isolated locations but nuclear.
So with that in mind, we have two big contentions.
The first is about how do we spread green energy?
There are many locations that in the status quo don't have access to alternative forms of energy.
Some forms like solar power require that you be in a certain part of the globe so that you get enough sunlight.
Others like geothermal power rely on you having access to volcanoes and other similar sources of geothermal energy.
So we see that lots of forms of green energy aren't practical everywhere in the world, but people living everywhere still need power.
So how do we get power to them?
We think that because you can deploy these small modular reactors pretty much anywhere in the globe, that you can install any power plant, that they can replace these dirty forms of energy like oil based power plants in many rural areas of the globe and many isolated areas of the globe and recognize that right now these are some of the dirtiest places on earth.
Think about greenland for instance, basically all of their electricity is produced by oil burning power plants.
So it's the equivalent of running hundreds and hundreds of cars all day in order to produce enough electricity for tens of thousands of people who live in greenland.
Now you might say oh greenland doesn't have that many people, it's not that big a concern, but ultimately, the harm of burning that much oil is much greater than the harm of using traditional power production methods in a place like new york where we have economies of scale.
We think it's important that in these places the ones which are the dirtiest per capita that we can replace fossil fuels with something cleaner.
Now why do we get that on our side?
We tell you that fundamentally these small modular reactors are the first form of alternative energy that can be applied here and that even if it's expensive it will be worth it for the international community to subsidize these reactors in order to reduce the dirtiest types of energy production around the globe.
The ones that do the most outsized amount of damage to our common environment.
In particular under this I'd like to talk about how this would affect developing nations.
Consider that many countries the problem isn't energy production its energy distribution.
In a country like pakistan that's very mountainous with lots of disparate communities spread across a large geographic area, we think that it's very difficult to provide electricity much less clean electricity, but these small modular reactors are an easy solution.
If we can install them near a group of villages then it would be easy to one, improve people's quality of life by providing them with clean energy and two, to do so without having to connect them to the larger electrical grid which would reduce the cost of providing the electricity to them.
So at the end of the day, we think that these will be particularly useful in the developing world and for that reason that we should further exploit them.
Our second contention is about why green energy is a necessity?
So you've all heard on TV about peak oil and global warming.
Basically we can't keep doing the same thing and expecting different results in the future.
Burning oil and coal and natural gas are not long term solutions to our energy problems and as more and more people expect a higher quality of life as their countries develop, we're only going to need more and more energy.
This is just going to create a feedback loop where the earth heats up more and more as more people's countries develop and ultimately more people will be put at risk because of this increased energy consumption.
It is therefore extremely urgent that we provide clean energy around the globe to people outside of the global north who don't have access to clean energy right now if we're going to have a safe earth in the future.
So for these reasons we should further exploit small modular reactors.
Thank you.