We should ban the church of scientology.
The church of scientology is a religious organization that originated a few decades ago in the united states based on the writings of science fiction author l ron hubbard.
The group is very controversial because many people join the group and feel like they can't leave and because they've committed many crimes and many scientologist conspiracies have been uncovered in the last few decades.
Our first argument for banning the church of scientology is that it's a criminal organization.
The largest act of espionage in american history actually wasn't conducted by communist or the soviet union as most people believe, it was conducted by scientologists.
They conspired to get scientologists hired to positions in the US government so that they could monitor files the US government was keeping on scientologists and destroy records of crimes that were being committed by other members of the church.
This is all well documented although the scientologists have tried to cover it up.
Some members of the church went to jail but very few were actually punished because there were a lot of high profile celebrities involved.
We think that this is a major reason to ban the church.
Where as the catholic church had a tiny minority of members who were involved in sex scandals, key core leadership of the church of scientology was involved in this conspiracy and many other conspiracies are likely taking place because the scientologists have used the same tactics more than once.
We think that if the core leadership of a group is focused on committing crimes that it should obviously be banned and we think that this is in no way analogous to crimes that have been committed by clergy who are members of established religious groups that have existed for centuries and that don't exist for nefarious purposes.
Our second argument is that we need to ban them because they commit fraud and take advantage of many of their members.
The church of scientology often misrepresents itself by claiming that it's a religious groups like any other but in fact all of its teachings were made up by a science fiction author in the nineteen sixties and it's very unlikely that any of its leadership actually believe in this.
Now a cynic might say that many of the leadership of other religions don't believe it either but I think that there's a clear difference between people being cynical about the catholic church and someone just making up a religion for tax purposes in the nineteen sixties.
Many people who enter the church of scientology later find that they can't leave because the church blackmails them or because they've signed over substantial assets to the church that they will lose if they were to leave.
This is the case for many hollywood celebrities who have become involved with the church of scientology and now feel like they can't leave.
We think that because blackmail is illegal first of all the church ought be banned, but also that a group that exists to prey on people and take advantage of them and steal their money probably doesn't have any place in a civil society and that this is a perfectly good reason to ban the church of scientology in itself whatever you think about their conspiracy in the past.
And our final argument is about the precedent that scientologists set.
Right now anybody can start a fake religion in order to avoid paying taxes and coerce people into doing their bidding because the scientologists have been getting away with it for fifty years.
If the government crackdown on scientologist it would be much harder for other cults or religious groups to take advantage of people and break the law and avoid taxes and get away with it.
We need to take a hardline on this because it's irresponsible of the government to let people avoid paying their taxes by forming an illegitimate religion and because it's just illegal to allow an organization to continue to threaten and blackmail people.
For all of these reasons, we should ban the church of scientology.
Thank you.