We should not ban organic food and I want to be very clear.
This debate is not about if organic food is a scam, if it's taking advantage of people.
The debate is about whether or not it should be banned.
So first point is about government overreach.
We think that in general the government should always try to give people the largest amount of choice and personal freedom possible.
We see that people want to be able to make decisions for themselves and we also think that individuals generally know what's in their own best interest better than anyone else does.
We think it's very difficult to tell someone what is good for them when you will never have access to as much information as they do about their life and desires and needs.
So with that in mind the other team seems very concerned about the fact that people are misled about organic food and that basically most organic food sold in countries like the US and britain actually isn't special, it's just more expensive versions of regular food, but we think that's fine if people want to consume a premium product we don't see why they should be punished for it or lose the ability to do so.
We think that, by and large, people want to consume premium products at times and that there's no reason why you should intervene here.
It seems fundamentally arbitrary to ban organic foods when we leave other products on the market that have no benefit.
The difference between some ten euro tube of crest toothpaste and a four euro tube of off brand toothpaste in terms of your dental hygiene is probably very low, but people want to pay extra for the fancier product and we let them.
Why should this be the one time when we intervene but on top of that we think it's government overreach because you are choosing market winners.
Basically what this does is punish certain types of businesses and benefit other types of businesses unfairly.
There are lots of farmers or farm companies which produce these organic foods and have been doing so for forty fifty years, even going back to the beginning of this movement, and all of their equipment and ability and skill is honed around this one market and they've been acting in good faith in providing a product to their customers.
We don't see why the government should step in and say that their way of doing business is fundamentally worse than other ways of doing business particularly when those other forms of doing business also have harms and so we see that the government is effectively saying that traditional farmers can do what they want and that these organic farmers deserve to be punished.
Something I'd like to point out here is that there is misleading premium food that is not organic, right?
People go out and they buy like local produce that is not of a higher quality than produce grown in california, or people go out and they buy a brand that is a name brand instead of a store brand, even though they're produced in the same factory.
It really seems like the government is punishing these organic farmers uniquely and letting other businesses get away with the same types of practice.
Our second point is that there are some benefits to organic food.
One, we think that the organic food craze has gotten people more interested in health, and healthy living, and that this is a good thing for society but on top of that we think that there probably are some quality benefits that if you pay for premium products sometimes you do get what you pay for.
It's been my experience, and I'm sure yours as well, that some organic foods really are better than other foods and we think people deserve to be able to pay more money for better products that they want to.
We think that this encourages healthier lifestyles, I've said, but also that there are environmental benefits on a local level.
Even if broadly speaking, organic food is no more sustainable then mass produced food.
At a town level, you would probably rather have a small organic farm than a massive agrobusiness that pollutes a lot.
We think that people have a right to decide what kind of businesses are in their communities, and that they undermine this by banning a successful popular business that employs lots of people.
Our last point then it's about access to food.
I want to engage with this really quickly.
So we tell you that first of all, there is still demand for cheap food.
People like me, who are in college, don't want to spend a lot of money on food or don't have a lot of money to spend so they go out and buy cheap products, or people who are getting government benefits go out and buy cheap products.
So because there's a demand for this type of food we think that it will still be provided and you don't have to worry that these organic hipster foods are going to price everybody out of the grocery store, and on top of that, premium goods have always existed.
They're not something new.
People were buying french cheese hundreds of years before they were buying organic american cheese.
So we just don't see that this is a unique harm to the organic food movement.
For these reasons we should not ban organic food.
Thank you.