We should ban organic food.
So in the status quo, in places like the united states and the european union you have government entities that label some food which is produced according to a long list of guidelines as organic.
So the only way that you're allowed to call your food organic is if you go down the sort of government checklist and meet every requirement and they presumably test your food to ensure that you do so.
So what we're arguing for on our side of debate is to get rid of this official label of organic for any given food.
Instead, we think that consumers should be able to read if something is produced according to certain natural methods, but that the actual term organic should not be used.
And certainly, nothing should replace it that's a similar government label that's indicative of this type of quality.
So three arguments.
The first is about why we think that organic labels drive up food costs.
So we tell you that it's much more lucrative to sell food to people who have more disposable income rather than less.
We see that, for instance, there are probably people in san francisco who can afford to pay a lot of money for a bag of rice, and people living in oakland who can pay a lot less money for a bag of rice, so you would always want to be the person producing for those wealthier consumers.
Now, the organic label is an excellent way to get someone to pay more money for effectively the same product.
We tell you that going down this checklist doesn't actually mean that you've done that much differently, just that you've avoided certain chemicals and likely substituted in other chemicals instead.
This may sound a little bit cynical, but most organic food is not coming straight from, you know, your grandfather's farm, it's coming from a massive agribusiness that's just as manipulative is any other food company so we tell you that because it's more lucrative you get fewer alternatives, because stores also want to stock the most profitable foods, which means these organic foods.
So they're taking up space that would otherwise go to regular, cheaper foods.
At that point I think that you get higher prices for the same foods, and that this is unacceptable because this makes it more difficult for people to have food security in their community.
Our second argument is about why we think this label is fundamentally misleading, and I suppose I've already hinted at this a little bit.
So there are no proven health benefits to so called organic food, and this makes a lot of sense when you think about what it actually is.
The USTA in america, or the EC in europe, basically just say you can't use any chemical on this list, and you have a few other requirements for how you store and treat this food.
So it doesn't make any sense that it would have any health benefits given that you're effectively eating the same thing minus a few safe chemicals that have already been approved for use in food these foods have the same nutritional value.
Now, it might be the case that one farmer has a strain of tomato with a little bit more vitamin a than another farmer strain of tomato, but at the end of the day these differences are insignificant when you account for the natural variation between foods because they're a product of nature.
We think therefore that this label is misleading because it exists to mislead consumers.
Basically, the companies that produce this organic food, these large companies like tyson and other agribusinesses, are implying to customers that organic food is healthier and more nutritious.
And even if they don't lie in their advertising, this seems apparent based on how people understand the word organic.
So we think that there's an imbalance in access to information between consumers and companies.
The companies know that the food is the same nutritionally as any other food, but the consumer thinks that they're getting something better.
At that point we feel like the government needs to step in and ban the use of this label because consumers are effectively being taken advantage of and can't protect themselves from these predatory businesses.
Our last argument is about why we think that the organic food label is actually harmful to small farmers.
So because this list is pretty long and requires you to use more expensive chemicals to grow your plants, or to raise livestock in particular, we think that most small farmers actually can't afford to meet these sort of arbitrary regulations for the organic label.
What is that mean?
Now, they can't compete in the gourmet food market, which we already told you is the most profitable food market, but on top of that, we think that they're likely to lose customers because people who probably would have bought produce at things like farmers markets and other places are now going to turn to other markets buying from large companies in order to get organic products thinking that it's healthier.
We think that many small farms will likely go under as they lose their consumer base, which is people with enough disposable income to buy from a small farm in the first place.
And this only strengthens and entrenches the power of large businesses.
And we think that this makes it likely that there will be less competition in the sphere of food production in the long run which ties back into what I told you earlier about driving up costs due to lack of competition.
So for these reasons, we should ban organic food.