We should not adopt zero tolerance policies in schools.
Three reasons why I think this is the case.
First is about a lack of leniency to these policies.
Recognize that zero tolerance policies are one size fits all.
Let's say, you have a school, this is something that actually happened at one of my schools growing up, there was a zero tolerance policy on images of weapons.
So people couldn't have, you know, pictures of guns or anything.
One day a boy came to school and he had a guns and roses, you know the band, guns and roses t-shirt on, and the school told him he could either go home and change, or that he was going to have to wait in the office all day until the bus could take him home.
So basically you had a boy lose an entire day of school and everything that he would have learned because he was wearing a t-shirt for a popular band that everyone in the school had already heard of.
It's not like there was anyone there who was unaware of the existence of guns and roses.
So the reason why I think these policies are silly is that there's no way to have a distinction between a student whose shirt has an AK_47 about to kill someone, and a student whose shirt has, you know, the words guns and roses.
These policies don't allow for any leniency, they require punishment that is much too severe.
Even if, as tim tells you, you're going to acknowledge that not all penalties are the same and you could have a more lenient punishment, we think that some things don't deserve punishment.
That at the end of the day it's silly that you could punish someone for something, like the t-shirt I just told you about, when it doesn't do any harm in the classroom setting.
Our second argument against zero tolerance policies is that they feed into the school to prison pipeline.
Recognize that many schools, especially urban schools in america, have police officers on the staff to provide security.
So what happens when you have zero tolerance policies is if you're going to involve the school discipline program, you also involve the criminal justice system.
So if you have a couple of boys fighting, let's say, in the hallway and you decide you have this zero tolerance policy, both of them have to get punished.
Suddenly both of these kids have gotten a zero tolerance policy.
And that could include if one person was just defending themselves, they would now also have a criminal record or would also have something on the record.
And these things snowball.
Basically, the punishments you face from the criminal justice system are much greater if you have anything in the past on your record.
Think about things like three strikes laws in california.
You could very conceivably have a boy get two demerits on his record in school for getting into a couple of fights that he wasn't trying to start and then have him get a third charge as an adult and go straight to jail, even though it's the first thing he's done wrong.
We just think that ultimately this exacerbates an already existing problem where the criminal justice system and school discipline are tied up with one another.
And that this will lead to more young men, especially young men in heavily policed inner city schools, going to jail.
Our third argument for why we think there shouldn't be these zero tolerance policies though is that they're fundamentally unfair.
So I mentioned earlier what happens if you have two boys fighting and one of them is just defending himself.
I think that in a world without zero tolerance policies, educators can be intelligent, can say one of these kids is a known bully and the other one is just try to keep his head down and learn, and that maybe these two students should be punished differently.
But with a zero tolerance policy you have to go after both.
We think that this is unfair.
It stop students from being able to defend themselves, it punishes students too harshly for accidents such as, if you know if you have students who live on farms who accidentally have a knife in their car, or something like that.
These are real issues that people have been punished for because of zero tolerance policies.
And we think that fundamentally it's unfair because the punishment is so disproportionate relative to the act that was actually committed, especially when there's no intent.
So for these reasons we should not adopt zero tolerance policies in schools.
Thank you.