We should ban factory farming.
So this is a debate about the practice in which cattle, chickens, and other livestock are raised in a heavily industrialized fashion.
For instance, chicken farms which consist of dozens of floors of chickens kept in coops, or cattle farms which work in a similar fashion.
We think that a better alternative would be to have most meat or all meat produced in more traditional ways, in a less intensive fashion.
We recognize that the cost of meat would skyrocket if this were done, but we think that's a harm that we're willing to bear.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that factory farming is inhumane.
We think that the treatment of animals in these factory farms is unacceptable and this in itself is enough reason to ban them.
For instance, in the movie food inc, they show the production of pork at a factory farm.
The pigs are kept in extremely poor conditions, routinely abused and beaten, and then when they're killed they are killed en masse with this giant machine that kills them with pressure.
There's no part of their lives which is in any way acceptable, if you care about the rights of animals.
While this is generally kept away from the public, we think that ultimately the horrible conditions that chickens, pigs and cows and other animals are kept in, is unacceptable.
These animals may be of a lower order them people, but they still deserve not to be treated in an absolutely horrible fashion, which is what's going on right now in these factory farms.
We think that because people would be extremely outraged if dogs or cats or other household animals were kept in this condition, that it's extremely hypocritical to keep farm animals, who are equally intelligent and valuable, in the same conditions.
And therefore that we ought ban factory farms because of the poor treatment of these animals.
Our second argument is about the environmental impacts of factory farming.
These are two fold: first I'll talk about pollution.
Industrial farming leads to massive amounts of pollution put into waterways and the ground.
For instance, near where I grew up there are lots of pork farms, so you have thousands of pigs whose waste is put into the new's or cape fear rivers, which is made these rivers completely unusable for drinking water and has put huge amounts of pig waste basically into the land, making it unproductive for certain types of crops that can't be grown because of bacteria.
It also causes huge algal blooms and has killed lots of fish off the coast of north carolina.
And there are similar impacts in other states across the US and in other countries around the world, of massive pollution from factory farms.
The other environmental impact is that when you have to grow corn to feed these beef chicken and pigs, ultimately you are spending huge amounts of land on not only raising these animals, but also on feeding them.
So that's a lot of land that is cultivated and ultimately being damaged in order to provide for these factory farms.
Our third and final point is about the health hazards that are caused by factory farming.
In order to keep animals healthy in these awful conditions they are pumped full of antibiotics and massive amounts of drugs are used to prevent them from getting ill.
This leads to things like antibiotic resistant bacteria or infections coming into existence, because so many antibiotics are being used at these farms, and at the same time it encourages people to eat more meat because the prices are so low which leads to greater obesity and lower health in general.
We also see massive health hazards for people who work in these farms.
Both the risk of becoming sick and also because they're exposed to such awful conditions that they run the risk of being harmed while they work in these conditions.
So for all of these reasons we should abolish factory farming.
Thank you.