We should not lower the drinking age in the united states.
So, I think that sam is a bit confused about the causation of the drinking age and once I clear that up, it'll become clear why we ought not lower the drinking age.
The existing law that drinking age is twenty-one in every state actually has nothing to do with prohibition in the early twentieth century.
In the nineteen seventies and eighties, many states actually had a drinking age that was eighteen, nineteen, or lower than twenty-one, in general.
It varied greatly by state, and there was no federal action to set a drinking age.
Then we saw that groups like " mothers against drunk driving " led a public campaign to raise the drinking age to keep alcohol away from teens in order to reduce drunk driving and that in response to this campaign, the federal government made highway funds conditional on having the drinking age set at twenty-one.
So, there's no federal law about this, as sam pointed out, it is all tied to highway funds.
But the introduction of this policy has nothing to do with prohibition and everything to do with drunk driving at the end of the twentieth century rather than prohibition campaigns at the beginning.
So with that in mind, we have two points about why we ought not lower the drinking age.
The first is that a higher drinking age limits access for teens.
Many people who are underage get alcohol from their friends.
No one's denying this.
But what you do when you make the drinking age twenty-one is make it harder to access alcohol for younger people.
If you are thirteen, it's much less likely that you're friends with a twenty-one-year-old than an eighteen-year-old.
In the same way, if you are nineteen today, it's much less likely that you're going to give alcohol to young teens when you have to get it from someone who's older yourself.
So, ultimately, we think that it limits the access for younger teens to raise the drinking age.
Basically, the way you can think about this is people will distribute alcohol to their friends illegally.
So perhaps you have twenty-one-year-olds who are friends with a seventeen-year-old, that's probably about the biggest gap you would see in terms of people going to the same school together.
So those people might distribute alcohol.
But if the drinking age were eighteen, you might have eighteen-year-olds giving alcohol to fourteen-year-olds.
We think that it's probably a good thing to keep alcohol out of the hands of young teens, who are very bad at making decisions and also aren't done developing, and that you can do this by raising the drinking age for the reasons I just explained, and that that's a pretty good reason in itself not to lower the drinking age, especially because when sam talks to you about people learning their limits, eighteen-year-olds drink in this country anyway and still learn their limits, and we don't think that lowering the drinking age would do anything to help them be more responsible.
So, our second point is about public will.
Recognize that the higher drinking age wasn't an instance of top-down governance forcing the american people to accept something they didn't want.
Public interest groups campaigned for this and ultimately, it was put into place in order to appease those public interest groups.
Now, sam and I might think that this is a stupid law, but at the point where there is no similar public interest group trying to lower the drinking age again, after it was raised, I think it's clear that the public will is in favor of having the drinking age be twenty-one, and generally speaking, people stop caring about this the second they turn twenty-one.
So at that point and because the american government is dependent on public will for its legitimacy, we think it would actually be unjust to lower the drinking age again.
If the government says that something is moral or immoral without public support, then it eventually is tantamount to the state deciding what is and is not ethical or moral.
We think that the state should reflect the will of the people, not the other way around, and that therefore, because public campaigns have raised the drinking age, that it would be unjust for the government to lower them.
For all these reasons, we should not lower the drinking age.
Thank you.