We should not abolish no-knock warrants.
In my speech, I'm going to explain to you why these are a necessary tool in the law enforcement toolbox and, secondly, why the alternative, namely, more surveillance, is actually worse for the functioning of society.
So, in terms of our first argument, why is this a necessary tool for law enforcement?
I want to begin by rebutting something tim said.
Tim tells you that this undermines the presumption of innocence, but I think that he's conflating two different things.
Yes, the courts have to presume that people are innocent until proven guilty.
This is why the burden of proof is on the police and the prosecutor rather than on the accused, but the police have no obligation to assume that people are guilty.
Indeed, if they did, the police would never investigate anyone.
Clearly, for the police to use no-knock warrants doesn't imply that the system is undervaluing the presumption of innocence, rather it's just acknowledging the fact that the legal system is adversarial and that the police and prosecutors do have to assume that people are guilty in order to try to find people who are committing crimes and to bring them to justice.
This is not a perversion of the system, it's necessary to its functioning.
But now, why is it especially necessary in some cases to have no-knock warrants?
Well, it's difficult to prosecute people without evidence, and for good reason, we tend to throw out cases where the prosecution can't bring forward enough evidence to prove someone is guilty.
But what happens without no-knock warrants is that in some instances, the evidence can be destroyed, even where a crime was committed.
So, for instance, if we were going after someone for distributing a compact drug, like LSD, it would be trivial for someone to flush all their supply down the toilet or hide it outside of their home if they knew that they had been served or if they knew that the police were coming.
A no-knock warrant, on the other hand, can catch people in the act and allow us to prove that these crimes are going on.
Yes, this is a violation of the sanctity of people's houses, but we think that the tradeoff of not being able to catch people who are distributing drugs or committing other crimes in their homes would be much worse.
It would undermine our ability to go after people for antisocial behavior and make the entire community less safe.
This is an instance where we have to trade off some small element of personal privacy for the well-being of the community.
And I'd like to point out that a judge still has to issue the warrant, so there is a check on overzealous police.
And if people are abusing this in the status quo, then the solution is to have judges be stricter about the criteria for handing out such a warrant, not to ban them entirely.
We'd also tell you that tim is conflating two things about self-incrimination.
He talks about the principle that you can't force someone to testify against themself, like the fifth amendment, but going into someone's house while they commit a crime isn't forcing them to incriminate themselves.
They are literally committing a crime.
No one made them do that.
So I just don't think that this really holds true in the debate.
And secondly, the alternative is much worse.
In a world without no-knock warrants, the police would probably turn to advanced surveillance technology to replace no-knock warrants, so the use of wiretaps, but also more advanced modern technologies like looking at your internet history or using drones to take photos into your house, which is actually legal, shockingly.
We think that this would be a much worse violation of privacy.
We think that at the end of the day, this could be applied to a much larger group of people than no-knock warrants and wouldn't have the check of the same type of check from a judge that a no-knock warrant has right now.
We think that it would be held to a lower standard and that it would affect more people and therefore degrade the expectation of privacy that much more in our society.
So we think that because this is a valuable tool and the alternative is worse that we should not abolish no-knock warrants.
Thank you.