We should not ban hydraulic fracturing.
Hydraulic fracturing, which I'm going to call fracking for the rest of the speech, is a technology for extracting natural gas and oil which has been used in the US, britain, germany, and other countries to great success.
We're going to argue in favor of it because it provides energy independence, because governments are bad at picking winners and losers, and because lower energy prices help low-income people.
So our first argument is about energy independence.
In the middle of the last decade, say around two thousand four, two thousand five, the US was the largest importer of oil in the world, largely for energy purposes.
Today, the US is actually an oil and natural gas exporter because of fracking.
So we've seen that really in the space of twelve years, the country has completely turned around its energy policy.
No longer is america dependent on foreign countries to provide for her energy needs, but now the united states actually sells energy to other countries.
We think that this is good because, for any country, whether that be the US or other countries that have fracked in the past, such as britain, energy independence allows governments to take political action which is unpopular with opec countries, something which is difficult if you rely on them for your energy, and also allows your energy policy to be more responsive to your people's needs.
For instance, if the US wanted to increase oil production, in order to drive down oil cost to help low-income americans, they can do that now, and they couldn't do that without fracking, because they wouldn't have the ability to produce more oil.
We see that in the past, for britain, when they fracked to get access to the north sea oil, this allowed them to turn around a failing economy and ultimately begin a new period of growth in the nineteen eighties.
So this has clear benefits economically and also for your country's foreign policy.
Our second argument is that governments are poor at picking winners and losers.
What do we mean by this?
Will tries to paint a picture in which frackers are uniquely bad for the environment, but I'd like to point out that conventional oil drilling is also atrocious for the environment.
The example I have in mind here is the deepwater horizon oil spill, when BP very kindly poured millions of gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico and did tremendous damage to the american and mexican coastal environments.
So, obviously, there are huge harms to traditional oil drilling.
Why then should we ban fracking, which admittedly does have environmental harms in places like north dakota or parts of canada, but not ban traditional drilling, which has massive harms to environments like the gulf of mexico?
It seems arbitrary, and we think that the difference is really that large powerful companies are more interested in traditional drilling or off-sea drilling than they're interested in fracking.
So we think that rather than bow to corporate interest, we should regulate these two very similar activities similarly, and that as long as we continue to allow drilling off the coast of the US, we should continue to allow fracking, and that the same should be true in britain and other countries which frack as well.
And our final argument is that low energy prices help disadvantaged people the most.
Because of fracking, oil prices in the US have fallen to well below three dollars a gallon for the first time that I can remember, and we've seen that, similarly, when britain began drilling for the north sea oil using fracking techniques, energy prices there went down as well.
So there are clear benefits to the citizens of these countries, but they accrue most directly to the poor, who can least afford to pay high energy costs.
People who could barely afford to get to work ten years ago are now able to drive and live their lives more fully, because energy prices are so much lower.
So we think that by banning fracking, you're actually harming the poor in your country, the people who most deserve to have the government's help to access low-cost energy.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban hydraulic fracturing.
Thank you.