We should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.
So a zero tolerance policy is a very strict enforcement of school rules that bans the possession of certain items or that prohibits certain behaviors.
So an example of this might be that if we had a zero tolerance policy, we might suspend anybody involved in a fight, no matter whether they started it or why the fight ultimately began or their role in participating.
We would suspend everyone equally.
That would be an example of a zero tolerance policy for fighting.
So a couple of reasons why we should actually implement these policies.
The first is that existing punishments are likely to be arbitrary without a zero tolerance policy.
And we think that this is likely to break down on certain biased lines.
For instance, right now, basically when you don't have a zero tolerance policy, you rely on teachers or principles to make a value judgment about whether a student deserves to be punished.
Maybe they make good decisions sometimes, but other times they likely make very poor decisions.
It seems quite likely to me that white teachers and administrators might be more likely to punish young black boys in school for fighting than they would be to punish white boys because of the empathy gap between people of different races.
They're more likely to be charitable towards someone of their own race than other people.
So we think that the only way to implement policies that are not left up to the racism or internalized biases of administrators and teachers, is to have the same policy for everyone.
Namely a zero tolerance policy.
The other side is going to say, well that just hurts everyone it doesn't help anybody.
But I think it's quite likely that if you implement these policies that you'll see a reform of school rules to reflect common sense better.
In other words, if you suddenly have a wave of boys being suspended for fighting, then maybe the penalties for fighting will be made less severe.
I don't know, they'll have to write, I will not get into fights, on the white board a hundred times or something like that.
So we think that ultimately this is less arbitrary and will lead to better policies in terms of actually preventing disciplinary infractions.
Which leads nicely to our second argument about better deterrence.
In order to prevent young people from misbehaving in school you need to offer some deterrence.
We think that extrinsic motivation is important to getting young people to do the right thing because they haven't yet had the kind of moral education that leads them to have this intrinsic motivation to do the right thing.
So how do we deter people?
If you know that being charming or funny can get you out of an offense, because there's no zero tolerance policy, than many students will do the wrong thing and then be able to get away with it.
We think that a zero tolerance policy means students will have to accept the costs of their actions, be responsible for what they've done, and not be able to weasel out of it.
And that this will lead to a stronger deterring effect than what you would see if you didn't have such a policy in place.
When students think that they can just weasel out of anything they've done wrong.
Our third argument is that we think this helps students out on the aggregate.
Realize that if you think about the eighty-twenty rule, probably twenty percent of students cause eighty percent of the problems.
We think that at that point it's important to remove trouble makers from the classroom so that the majority of students are able to learn and benefit themselves.
We think that right now if you don't have zero tolerance policies, then the students who act up, who get into fights, who cause trouble, are likely to continue that behavior to the detriment of every other student who just wants to learn and try to get ahead in life.
So we think that while zero tolerance policies may fall harshly on certain individuals, that they benefit the aggregate because most students wouldn't be affected by this policy because they behave and don't cause trouble.
At that point, we should adopt this policy because it allows us to reward good behavior, punish bad behavior, and allocate more resources to the students who actually want to learn as opposed to students who want to cause trouble and mischief.
So for these reasons we should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.
Thank you.