We should further exploit nuclear power.
So what we're talking about in this debate, is the idea that countries with the technological ability to do so should expand their use of nuclear power to replace traditional fossil fuels, such as coal or natural gas, in producing energy for their electric grids.
So with this in mind I think it's useful to give an example of what we're talking about.
France, uniquely among all countries, produces about over seventy percent of their electricity from nuclear power.
The united states, by contrast, produces between ten and twenty percent of our electricity with nuclear power.
So we think that countries should strive to be more like france and less like the united states in terms of their energy production.
A few arguments for this.
First, nuclear power is extremely clean.
We tell you that the only emissions of nuclear power plants are steam and that the waste that they produce actually can be safely disposed of.
The other team is going to tell you that nuclear power is this horrible horrible energy source because you end up with this radioactive waste, but the fact of the matter is countries are dragging their feet about disposing of nuclear waste but that doesn't make it impossible.
Here in the US for instance there is a plan to dig out a mountain, in I believe nevada, called yucca mountain and to bury all of our nuclear waste under this mountain and seal it up in such a way that no one could get to it for fifty thousand years, something like that.
We think that it's clear that countries have the capability to establish these disposal sites or that they could contract it out, perhaps send their nuclear waste to the united states to be disposed of in exchange for some sort of trade.
We think that because nuclear power has effectively no emissions and that the waste can be safely disposed of that we should exploit it because it's much cleaner than other forms of energy.
We tell you that even solar panels, by comparison, produce a lot of emissions during the production of those solar panels and that ultimately we think that nuclear power would therefore be preferable there too.
Our second argument is that we think that nuclear power allows countries to be more economically independent with respect to their energy production.
What do we mean by this?
It takes relatively little fissile material for a country to run a nuclear power plant.
What this means is that you can import some uranium and run a nuclear power plant for years and years and years.
Because of this, countries will be less dependent on importing energy.
Right now many western countries like germany, import large portions of their energy.
We think that ultimately this leads to capitol leaving the country.
It makes it more expensive to do business.
It puts an unfair burden on low income people who have to pay higher costs for electricity.
We think that if we further exploit nuclear power than even a country like germany which doesn't have lots of big rivers for dams, or lots of sun for solar power, can turn to green energy and to cheaper energy than they would have otherwise.
The last argument that we'd like to make about this is that we think that exploiting nuclear power will lead to the development of better fuel sources in the future.
What I mean by this is that right now most nuclear reactors around the world work by a certain principle of nuclear fission but there is already a new technology entering use in china called liquid thorium reactors which is even more efficient and even safer than existing nuclear reactors.
We think that by investing in nuclear power and adopting it as our primary mode of energy production that we will spur research into better, cleaner forms of nuclear energy in the future which will supplant other forms of energy as the best options very clearly.
So for these reasons, we should further exploit nuclear power.
Thank you.