We should increase gun control.
So obviously, gun laws vary considerably from country to country.
So the way that we're going to set this debate up is to say that we would prefer a united kingdom style of firearms regulation where it's virtually impossible for anyone to own a handgun, where urban people generally can't own a long gun and where ownership even of shotguns and rifles is very very intensely regulated and uncommon, even out in the country.
We would prefer this british model to an american model where almost anyone can acquire any type of firearm.
A handful of american cities limit access to guns but in general, if you're an american citizen, you can walk into a gun shop - there's one down the street from my parents house - just walk in and ask to buy a gun and usually walk out the same day, or maybe you have a one or two day waiting period.
So, three main arguments for why we would prefer a UK model to US model: the first obviously is that we think you'll have fewer firearm deaths.
Recognize that there are three major categories of death caused by firearm: the first are murders.
So people, especially gang members or people in organized crime, use oftentimes legally purchased guns that have been stolen in order to kill other gang members or carry out various forms of murders.
These make up a relatively small portion of gun deaths in the united states but still, there are many many many more gun deaths from murder in the US than in britain.
The second is going to be accidents.
, every year toddlers in the US kill double digit numbers of people with guns that their parents have left unsecured.
We think that the thousands of deaths caused by firearm accidents in the united states could be avoided if people had this access to firearms.
Generally speaking even if we regulate that people have to have gun safes, have to keep ammunition stored separately from firearms, in practice there's no way to enforce this.
People are going to be irresponsible.
We think that you need to take away these tools that ultimately mean that people will die because of others' irresponsibility.
And the final major cause of gun deaths would be suicides.
Many people make a very unfortunate spur of the moment decision to kill themselves and it's much easier to do this successfully with a gun than almost any other method.
You can't regret what you've done and call nine one one after you shot yourself.
It's basically instant.
So we think that you would see many fewer successful suicides and indeed, britain does have a much lower rate of successful suicide than the united states.
So we think that these reasons are all good enough to implement very strict gun control in countries like the US, comparable to what you see in countries like britain.
Our second main argument is that we think this would lead to better policing.
In the US all police officers have to carry guns because so many of the criminals that they have to apprehend are armed.
It would be very irresponsible to send unarmed police officers, you know, to raid a house or go after a drug dealer in the US because of the risk that they would be shot at.
Conversely in britain, most police officers don't carry a gun or maybe they keep one in their car but not on their person and so you see that the police are shooting many fewer innocent people.
It's obviously been a major problem in the US throughout its history but particularly recently that the police are killing unarmed young black men and we think that would be much rarer if you didn't have all the police armed.
So if you add stricter gun control we think we wouldn't need to arm the police, which would lead to less fewer of the wrongful deaths caused by the police.
And our last argument is about reducing violence abroad.
Realize that most of the guns used in the international drug trade in the americas are guns that were legally bought in the united states and then stolen or trafficked.
People aren't going and buying m-sixteens in mexico because you can't purchase them, but you can get them very easily in texas.
So what they do is they have american citizens buy them guns and then sell them in mexico or they steal guns from people's homes in the US.
So if you limited the amount of guns in the US you would see less violence in the drug trade because the supply of guns would dry up.
So for these reasons we should increase gun control.
Thank you.