We should not ban corporal punishment.
So I want to be very clear.
We're not saying that all forms of physical punishment should be legal.
What we're saying is that there's a difference between physical abuse that's damaging to a child and spanking them because they've done something wrong occasionally.
You know, obviously there's a difference between using an implement that could be very damaging and an open palm to discipline a child.
There's matters of degree and also of when it's used.
So we're fine with punishing people for child abuse, but allowing certain forms of corporal punishment.
And this is the legal status quo in most of the united states today.
We see that it's legal to corporally punish your child but that if you are being actively abusive, that your children will be taken away.
So three arguments then for our side.
The first is that sometimes corporal punishment is really the best or only option.
A good example of this would be when there is an immediate risk to a child doing something bad, and they're not able to understand why what they're doing is wrong.
Let's say you have a child who wants to touch the glowing element on the stove and obviously, you know, it would burn their hand very badly if they did so.
And this child is too young to understand, " look, if you touch it, you'll get burned, " in an intelligent way.
The only way that they're going to learn is to have some negative reaction.
Obviously, it's better for that child to have you spank them and say, " never touch the stove, " than it is to have them severely burn their hand by touching it.
And if you have a very young child who can't yet understand the potential risks of a burn, then we think that ultimately this is the best option that you have.
Similarly, if there's something that's immediately risky, like a child who keeps trying to run out into the road, sometimes you just have to tell them that this is wrong, right then, right there, and the only way to make it sink in is to use physical force.
So we think that in those instances, this might be the only option that we have to discipline these children for their own good, and that's what's important here.
The difference between this and abuse is that this is being done in a very restricted, controlled way, because there's something actively bad that the child is doing.
Our second argument is that this is one of many tools in a toolbox that we ought to allow parents to use.
I think that implicit in the other side of this debate is the idea that we should use punishments like taking away privileges or otherwise punishing children in place of corporal punishment.
Because obviously, you can't raise a child without punishing them.
But what if you're a parent who doesn't have the ability to use many other forms of punishment?
For instance, if you are a single parent and you work a lot of hours, then you might not be able to stay home and be sure that your children stay in their room if they're grounded, or you might not be able to take away certain privileges because you aren't able to give your child a lot of money or other privileges.
We think that for those kind of parents, corporal punishment becomes essential to maintain discipline because many of the other options available to some parents aren't available to them.
So I think will needs to tell you why we need a categorical ban on this corporal punishment rather than a more limited ban, when sometimes it's the only tool available.
And lastly, I'd like to push back on this idea that corporal punishment is worse than other forms of punishment.
I think that many children would rather be spanked a couple of times than be made to watch the hands on a clock go around for a certain amount of time, which is something my mom used to do to me when I misbehaved.
In the same way, we think that there are potential lasting damages to psychological or other forms of punishment.
So we don't think that corporal punishment is inherently worse than other types of punishment if used correctly.
We think that the issue is its application not the nature of it in itself.
And so with this in mind, because sometimes it's necessary, because it's one of many tools available, and because it's not inherently worse than any other form of punishment, we should not ban corporal punishment.
Thank you.