We should ban whaling.
So I want to be clear what we're talking about: we support a total worldwide ban on hunting and killing whales for any reason.
So with that in mind we have two large arguments.
The first is about ecological considerations surrounding whaling.
I think that it's important to understand that some species are more important to their environments than others.
These species are called keystone species and most often they are the ones that other species depend upon the most.
If you have a large predator, for instance, that consumes huge amounts of biomass and keeps other species population in check, then that's really essential to be sure that those species don't get out of control and ultimately decimate the ecosystem.
This is the case with most whales.
They are the largest predator in their ecosystem and it's true that they consume things like krill that you or I may not think of as a large species but ultimately in the kind of environments that most whales live in, namely the arctic, these are extremely fragile environments where the whale is the keystone species because they keep the populations of other species in check and at very little risk of high population growth themselves.
But we also have another ecological benefit which is a bit more humane which is that they're very charismatic mega fauna, is what people call them.
Basically what that means is that little boys and girls around the world love whales.
So they care about the environment because of whales.
People don't care that much about some arctic shrimp going extinct even though it may be a problem for the environment.
What they care a lot about is a great big graceful beautiful creature that is potentially at risk.
This means that the whales mean that people are more likely to care about the environment as a whole because they care about one part of the environment.
But if whales are hunted to extinction then you lose out on that and these arctic ecosystems lose out on one of the strongest guarantees of their continued existence, namely human investment in their well being, in the form of human concern for wales.
So we think that in the long term these environments are much more at risk because of the loss of a keystone species and because people won't care as much about them.
And I guess obviously we're concerned about unforeseen harms.
I mentioned before that you might see runaway population growth through the shrimp and krill that whale eat but who can say that there won't be other side effects as well that no one can predict right now because we have imperfect information?
We just don't think that you should make an irreversible decision like letting whales be hunted possibly to extinction in order to er when you don't have all the good information.
Now I bet the other team is going to get up here and say that they can hunt whales responsibly but we just don't think that's true.
We think that there is a sort of tragedy of the commons with the open ocean where every single country wants to take as much as they can and give us as little back and that means that every country will always regulate themselves favorably and ignore any international treaty that doesn't suit themselves about whales, like japan is doing, in the status quo when they systematically ignore regulations about whaling.
So our second argument then is about the providence of nature.
So we think that future people, first of all, have an equal claim to current people to the beauty and goodness of nature.
In other words we need to leave the environment the way we found it or better so that future people can enjoy the beauty of nature and the resources of nature.
And if we consume them all now they will never come back and we are basically robbing our grandchildren of these incredible creatures and the environments where they live.
But aside from that, we'd like to point out that whales tend to live in international waters and that no one country should be able to get rich at the expense of every other country by destroying a valuable resource like the whales.
And lastly I'd just like to point out that biological diversity is irreplaceable.
Once species go extinct obviously they are never coming back and who can say what uses those species might have to humankind in the future?
In terms of research or unforeseen potential benefits to our species.
So we see that for instance if people twenty thousand years ago had hunted horses to extinction the course of human history would have been much impoverished.
I'm not saying that whales are the next horse, I am merely saying that they could have unforeseen benefits to us that we couldn't even begin to imagine right now.
So for these reasons we should ban whaling.
Thank you