We should abolish bit coins.
So we think that a group of countries the world's largest economies like that the US european union countries and china should come together to crackdown on bitcoin and prevent it from being purchased sold or used within their countries.
We have a few arguments for our side.
The first is that bit coin is largely used for black market purchases.
Now I know that in recent years bit coin advocates have started talking about how legitimate businesses are accepting bitcoin and you can even use it to buy a cup of coffee in some cities but really bit coin exists to buy things that are illegal.
The reason why people go through such great lengths in order to buy a bit coin is so that they can purchase something without being tracked by the government.
If you went and bought a huge amount of drugs for instance with US dollars the government could track the serial numbers of those dollar bills and if you were stupid enough to pay with a credit card that will be very easy to track.
But with a bit coin you can buy lots of drugs or pay for illegal services like prostitution where that's illegal and you would be able to get away with it because no one could track the payment method.
It would be completely anonymous and out of the government's control.
So when people do things like order drugs over the internet they want to pay with bit coins.
So we think that because this is pretty clearly a way to avoid law enforcement and make it easier to consume illegal drugs or pay for illegal services that bit coin should be abolished because it's a threat to the rule of law.
Ultimately even if bit coin isn't doing anything wrong in and enough itself the fact that it exists to facilitate illegal behavior is still sufficient to ban it.
We see that this is true in other ways as well you can't own the tools to break into a car certain locksmith tools in a lot of cities even though the locksmith tools don't do anything wrong in and of themselves because they really only would be purchased for nefarious purposes.
Bit coin is the same way and by the same principle we ought stop people from being able to buy and use it.
And while some people might intend to use their bit coins for legitimate purposes ultimately we think that those people should know that what they're doing is making it easier to commit crimes and that they're not completely innocent in and of themselves.
Our second argument is about tax avoidance in the same way that we can't track purchases with bitcoin we also can't track bit coin for tax purposes.
So if you have a business that is billing people in bitcoin they could very easily avoid paying the tax that they owe to the state because ultimately the IRS would have a hard time proving that they had a certain amount of money in their accounts.
At the same time people who pay with bitcoin don't have to ultimately commit to paying sales tax or other taxes that they ought to when they spend that money.
But this even goes beyond that.
Many people might transfer money between countries using bitcoin in order to avoid paying tax in a country that has relatively high tax rates.
So it also becomes a way to funnel money out of the country illegally.
So in the same way that it facilitates illegal transactions it also facilitates tax avoidance.
We think that in the same way that we could step in for illegal transactions we can also ban bit coin if it's being used as a way for people to avoid paying their taxes.
After all we would be very suspicious of people who were trying to take thousands of dollars in cash out of their country.
We ought be equally suspicious if people are trying to take thousands of dollars of bit coins out of the country.
So ultimately this doesn't work any differently than smuggling cash or gold or other valuables the same kind of thing that you might have to declare when you enter the european union or the united states but people are able to get away with it because it's untrackable.
So ultimately because in these two ways bi coin poses a threat to the rule of law we ought abolish bit coin.
Thank you.