We should not only permit tower blocks, we should encourage through subsidy the construction of high density housing in the form of tower blocks.
The other side would have you think that we're talking about some sort of nineteen forty soviet construction that's going to fall down around people and it's going to be completely uninhabitable fifty years later, but I'd like to point out to you that while a lot of american housing built right after world war two isn't still around today, most of those stalinist towers actually are and are doing relatively well compared to the alternative and that secondly, many countries like hong kong and singapore have developed new and more effective ways to build tower blocks that will be better for people to live in.
So this isn't a debate about nineteen forties soviet housing compared to new york city luxury or something like that.
It's a debate about developing countries and how we house people.
So our first argument is that this is a necessity in developing countries.
Right now in countries like malaysia or nigeria, millions of people are leaving the countryside to move to the city.
They're seeking a better life for themselves and their children and they're seeking employment and other things that can only be found in the cities whether that that be lagos or cities in south africa or kuala lumpur.
So ultimately, what's going to happen is people are going to continue to move to these cities and to need housing and the only way to cope with those people coming in is to build tower blocks.
Now in cities like istanbul, like kuala lumpur, many people live in these tower blocks and they're grateful for it.
While to people living in low rise suburban america this may seem like hell, to people who grew up in huts basically, the seems like a massive step forward.
Ultimately, we need to compare people's housing to what they had before not to what people in countries with six times greater income have.
So we don't think that these are going to actually be harmful and we think that it's the only way to increase development in cities.
New york and london started out by having high rise tower blocks in their period of industrialization.
We shouldn't be surprised that modern day cities like jakarta do so as well.
But our second argument is that these tower blocks are very effective and therefore better than the environment.
What these tower blocks do is take millions of people around the globe who would otherwise be living in low rise housing that covers much more land and put them all in one place.
These people can be served with electricity and heat and air conditioning and energy much more cheaply than people all living in separate dwellings.
What this means is that the carbon footprint of a person living in a high rise home is much lower than the carbon footprint of a person living in a low rise home.
I live in a ten story building in los angeles.
My carbon footprint is much lower than that of someone who lives in a single story home.
Ultimately in order to reduce the carbon impact of development and population growth, we need to get people more urbanized.
People need to be taking public transit which is more possible when you have very dense housing.
People need to be living closer together which again requires dense housing.
People need to be able to walk places which again favors dense urban centers and ultimately the only way to get these things is with tower blocks.
Now maybe you can say that building codes should be more like they are in LA as opposed to what they were in the old soviet union but the point remains that many people are grateful to have the opportunity to live in these buildings at all and that ultimately they're the best way for developing countries to move forward.
Thank you.