We should fight against illegal immigration.
So before I get into my case, I just want to briefly explain what we mean by this.
We think that government should invest more money in preventing people from overstaying their visas and also that they should make available more ways for people to legally come to their country.
Some countries like the united states are basically impossible to move to for most people who want to do so because of quotas that disfavor the countries where most immigrants come from.
So basically in the united states it's much easier to move here from france than it is from mexico and the system was set up deliberately by politicians who wanted to keep out people from less developed or quote unquote undesirable countries.
So we think that those policies should be changed as part of the way that we fight illegal immigration.
But our first reason why we need to fight illegal immigration is that ultimately it creates a perpetual underclass in our society.
The united states economy as it exists right now, could not function without illegal immigrants.
These people work well below the minimum wage and do jobs that other people are just unwilling to do for instance a lot of prep work in kitchens which is very time consuming, relatively difficult, and unrewarding work is done by illegal immigrants who are paid well below the minimum wage by cheap restaurant owners.
The very low cost of eating at restaurants in the united states could not be sustained without these wages but at the same time it comes at a huge cost of creating an underclass of people who don't make enough money to really provide for their family and who are trapped and can't move up in the world because they don't have proper papers to get a job that would check their background.
So ultimately what happens is people come to the united states for a better life and maybe they get it, but they don't have the standard of living that we've deemed the minimum acceptable in the united states even once they get here because employers are so readily able to take advantage of people who don't have their proper papers in order.
So we need to fight against illegal immigration first and foremost out of compassion for the people who suffer from poor treatment because of their undocumented status once they get to the united states or other wealthy countries.
But next, we need to fight against illegal immigration because it's unfair to legal immigrants.
Illegal immigration creates a huge backlash to immigration in general.
Many people resent immigrants and think that immigrants are lazy or not hard working.
This doesn't make any sense because it's very difficult to immigrate to a new country and most of these people do so and immediately get jobs and work very hard.
But the narrative that or that immigrants in general don't deserve to be in a particular country is strengthened by the prevalence of illegal immigration.
If there are lots of undocumented people coming into your country without getting the proper papers, then it's easy to tar everyone with the same brush and assume the worst even of legal immigrants.
So lots of people who legally move to this country from latin america, to the united states that is, are assumed unfairly not to deserve to be in this country even if they went through the exact same immigration processes that someone coming from france or britain would go through.
More stringent processes indeed than the ones that my ancestors would have gone through in the early twentieth century.
But the final reason why we need to fight against illegal immigration is because ultimately border control is just not sustainable.
Right now our solution to illegal immigration is to put a bunch of guys in trucks out on the border and have them drive around like cowboys and pretend that they're doing something good.
We need to take greater action to prevent illegal immigration so that we don't have to spend all this money because it leads to a lot of violence on the border and also fuels this economy of people called coyotes who can smuggle you in past US border control and again, that leads to more violence and more suffering.
So we think that we need to fight against illegal immigration ultimately to help the people trying to come to this country and those already in it.
Thank you.