We should not subsidize financial advisors.
By this we mean we don't think that the state should help people to access financial advice.
We don't think that there should be government provided financial advisers and we don't think that the government should spend money in general to help people access financial advisors.
Our first argument is that this is unnecessary for most people except those who are already too well-off to need government assistance.
Consider the fact that about forty nine percent of americans don't own don't have a positive net worth.
So presumably these people don't need financial advisers because they don't have a portfolio to invest.
Maybe they have a retirement fund, but those are generally pretty straightforward.
If you have a four_o_one_k usually your company sets up who manages that and you don't have a lot of say in it which protects people from their own poor decisions.
But as a result, the types of people who need financial advisers may not be wealthy but they're certainly well-off to an extent.
They're people who own property or have their own investments outside of their retirement fund and we think that those people probably don't need government support in order to access financial advisors.
We're fine with regulating financial advisers to be sure that they're legitimate.
We're fine with you know going after people who are misleading their consumers.
But we think at the end of the day that the type of people we're looking at in this debate are middle class people who have solid incomes and probably don't need a state subsidy in order to go talk to someone from merrill lynch or whoever about wealth management.
It just doesn't seem like these are the neediest people in society and that's probably who the government should focus their resources on.
Our second argument is that this trades off with other government programs.
Money is fungible.
If you spend money on subsidizing financial advisers then that's money that you're not spending on subsidizing primary education or school lunches or environmental protections or whatever you think the government ought to be doing.
One of the problems with spending money on a program like this, even if it has some benefits which I'm sure it would, is that it's obviously much less beneficial than something like investing in early childhood education so that children from disadvantaged communities can get ahead in life.
At the end of the day, we think that government has an obligation to use people's money effectively.
We think that because the government is taking people's money without their consent in the name of the public good that it has an obligation to use that money for the public good and it's true that we can't always maximize utility.
Sometimes we have to spend money on boring things like servicing the debt.
But at the end of the day, the one of the main purposes of the government is to help people who cannot help themselves and that's why we're okay with taxing people who do work and do have an income in order to support those people.
So redistributing resources back to these people who already paid their taxes doesn't make a lot of sense, it's just adding a layer of bureaucracy in between them and getting their financial services.
It makes much more sense, we think, to focus on helping those who can't help themselves and those people probably don't need a financial adviser.
And our last argument is that once you expand the role of government it's very difficult to trim it back.
So if you were to launch a pilot program for financial advisers, for instance, it would be very difficult to ever cancel that program.
If you did the people who took advantage of it would be very angry, would call their congresspeople, would threaten to change their votes, etcetera, and similarly the industry that would crop up around taking advantage of these government subsidies would revolt and would lobby and spend lots of money to avoid having the government crackdown on them in any way.
So we think that even testing this type of proposition is very risky because it's almost certainly going to be a permanent change no matter how it's pitched to the american people and for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize financial advisors.
Thank you.