We should increase international volunteering.
By this we mean to say that it would be preferable to the status quo if many more people, particularly in developed or global north countries, volunteered in developing or global south countries.
Three arguments for our side today.
The first is that volunteering done in global south or developing countries does more good than volunteering done in the wealthy home countries of these volunteers.
This is really a matter of simple arithmetic.
If you consider the benefit that a single engineer can have in a community, it's clearly going to be much greater in an area which has fewer engineers or less access to expertise than one with more.
So if I were someone who knew how to build clean water purification systems, say, I could presumably do much more good in a very poor area of the democratic republic of congo than I could do in detroit.
Even though there are people in detroit who don't have access to good drinking water, there is a much greater proportion of people in the democratic republic of congo who don't have access to clean drinking water.
And what's more, any money I spend will go much farther in a poorer country because the cost of doing business and the cost of goods is ultimately going to be lower.
When we decide how to do charity, maximizing the good that we do seems to be a good guiding principle, because ultimately we have limited time and resources and it's important that we get the most that we can to improve human life and dignity with those resources.
So we think that ultimately you do this better through international volunteering in poorer countries rather than volunteering domestically in your own country, where presumably money simply doesn't go as far and your expertise is less unique.
Our second argument is about redressing past wrongs.
We would argue that former colonial countries have a debt or obligation to their former colonies.
To take one example, the philippines was, for about fifty years, an american colony.
We took it during a war with spain and governed it extremely harshly with military law for several decades.
Because of that, people in the philippines had less opportunity to start businesses to help themselves than they would have if they had been self-governing.
Ultimately, colonialism led to a huge amounts of money and human capital leaving that country for the united states.
We think that because america benefited from that colonial relationship, we have a reciprocal obligation to help people in the philippines today.
Because that country is so much poorer and less developed than the united states, all of the arguments we gave above also apply.
But we think that there is a unique obligation between former colonial countries, like the US, britain and france, and their former colonies, which because of that colonial relationship are fundamentally worse off, that we can begin to redress past wrongs only through trying to make them right in the present and that international volunteering is an effective way to do so.
Our third and final argument is that we think that the volunteers who travel abroad to like do their work will return home with broader perspectives that will ultimately lead their countries towards better government.
It's very unfortunate that so many people, especially in the united states, never leave their home country.
If more people were to travel to other cultures, places that don't speak their native language or practice a different religion, I think it's quite likely that people would be more tolerant and less willing to believe in hateful rhetoric pushed by the media.
For instance, very few americans had ever been to iraq in two thousand three, and this is probably one reason why the country was so willing to go to war and ultimately kill almost a million people.
It's because they had no human connection with individuals in iraq.
If you had thousands of americans traveling to the middle east, meeting people there, eating in their homes, being friends with them, then they will be less likely to believe islamophobic or racist rhetoric that has been an underlying cause of violence in the past.
So for all of these reasons, we should seek to increase international volunteering.
Thank you.