We should not subsidize open access journals.
Open access journals are academic journals that are freely available to the public.
So, for instance, if you wanted to read a journal that was published by cambridge university press and it's not open access, then you might have to pay a fee of like fifteen or twenty dollars per article to read that if you don't have a subscription through a library or university, whereas an open access journal could be published by cambridge as well, but might be totally free to anyone in the public who wants a PDF of that article.
We don't think that these types of journals should receive a specific subsidy.
Our first argument is just that there's a limited need for access to academic journals.
Almost everyone who's doing research that requires access to academic resources is affiliated with a university or, at the very least, with a library.
As a result, we think that existing education and library funding more than covers the need for this type of journal, but at the same time, we tell you that the people who need this type of journal tend to come from a certain background.
They tend to have a good job and a good education and, generally speaking, aren't the people most in need of government funds.
Now the other side might try to talk about access to information, but anybody doing serious research already has access to every journal through their university, so this just isn't an issue.
And if you are an academic who can't get access, you can usually find a workaround pretty quickly.
Since the public doesn't really need these types of articles, and since the researchers who are working with them tend to be affiliated with institutions that grant them, we just don't see the real need for access to open access journals.
And, similarly, while we think they're nice in principle, we don't think that they are fundamentally better for the public than the traditional journals with paywalls, because academics still have access to that information, and that's what really matters here.
Our second argument is that if you offer these subsidies, it's just going to be more money for elsevier and other companies that publish journals.
Because recognize that universities tend not to host these journals directly.
Cambridge, for instance, might contract out to elsevier, which is a dutch company, I believe that's how you pronounce it, that does a lot of academic journals.
So you might have a cambridge journal that's published for profit by elsevier, and you might have another one that's open access.
Right now, they don't make a lot of money on these open access journals.
We think that the only real change if you introduce subsidies is now cambridge is going to have to share that money with elsevier, and you're giving more money to the same company that invented the modern model of making journals very expensive for the public.
We don't think there's much benefit to funneling even more public money into this company, so we don't think that subsidizing journals will ultimately have a good end, because that's who the money would go to.
Not to authors, but to this company that acts as a middleman between academics and other academics.
And finally, we think that there's a tradeoff with other library funding when you subsidize these types of journals.
I'm not going to argue that there's a tradeoff with government essential funding.
I don't think anyone's going to cover funds for needy single mothers in order to cover open access journals, but this will trade off with library budgets at universities and with governments, as these organizations have to decide how they're going to find money to cover the subsidy.
I think that, as a result, other important programs that are paid for out of library funds are likely to see a decrease in funding, and these are already often hard-pressed.
So if you do care about the public having access, the best thing possible would be for boston public library or new york public library to have more funds to spend on that, rather than to have it be a subsidy that goes through a university to some dutch company that publishes them for profit.
So for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize open access journals.
Thank you.