We should not subsidize daycare.
We're going to talk about quality control, about how this isn't a real solution to the problem, and about how this isn't means-tested, on our side of this debate.
We think that the other side has to demonstrate to you that they create a better situation for children, because that's who we're really most concerned about when we talk about childcare.
So with that in mind, our first point is that there's no way for the government to guarantee quality control for private daycares.
Recognize that we must be talking about private daycares if we're talking about subsidy here.
On our side, we'd be totally fine with opening government-run preschools, but that's not really what's up for this debate.
Rather, we're talking about taking existing daycare facilities and all of the new ones that would open up to get this sweet, sweet subsidy money, and I think that those are likely to be of very low quality.
Right now, there's a huge variation in the quality of daycare.
Some of it is very educational and really high quality, some of it is just someone who has an extra room in their house using it to store a bunch of kids during the day.
We think that a lot of people will see that they can get government money to run a daycare and are going to open a daycare, who have no qualification and no training.
But we also think that the government doesn't have the ability to actually check whether these people are qualified, because there's no government licensing program for early childhood care and that, as a result, you're like to see likely to see lots of really bad daycares open up.
We think it'll be difficult for parents to discern between a high quality daycare and a low quality daycare and that, as a result, many children are going to be shunted into daycares that don't offer them any educational advantage, that don't get them ready for school, and that may not treat them very well.
We think that at the end of the day, this is likely to be worse for children than existing networks that put them in, say, family care.
So we think that at the end of the day, this is not what's best for these children, and that's who we should really be concerned about in this debate.
We think that we should be the most concerned about children in this debate rather than the parents who save money, because early childhood care has a much greater effect on the children than on the parents.
This determines whether they're going to do well in school, whether they'll get into a good college, and what type of job they'll have down the line whereas for parents, it's just a matter of saving money.
That's certainly important, too, but it's obviously much more important to the child to have a good quality care experience.
Our second point is about how this is a bandaid solution to a much larger problem.
The other side is going to argue that this is a a good way to help working class mothers or single mothers be able to provide for their children, but this doesn't solve for all of the problems of why these parents can't afford childcare in the first place.
This doesn't fix broken families, where you can't rely on your family to look after your children.
This doesn't make it any easier for people to get hours that let them take care of their children.
And, ultimately, we think that while this might give a subsidy that helps a marginal few people now afford childcare, it's not likely to make a huge difference, because it doesn't solve the root cause of the issue that makes people require childcare.
And our final argument is that this is bad because it's not means-tested.
The people who benefit from this the most aren't very low low-income people who can now afford childcare, because those people still can't afford childcare with a partial subsidy.
It's middle-class people who would have bought this service either way.
Those people now save a lot of money on childcare, who could have afforded to pay for it before but now are able to spend less.
So we think that this is, basically, giving a huge rebate to people who don't need it and that, as a result, it's not a good use of state funds.
We think that we'd be better off subsidizing things like preschools for children at risk, that are run by the government, rather than by subsidizing early childhood care as a whole.
And for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize daycare.
Thank you.