We should not stop mining.
We think that while mining has many negative side effects, that ultimately it is a necessary evil in today's society and that it will remain so for the foreseeable future.
With that in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that development requires raw materials.
Right now, it may be true that countries like the united states or germany, that are very highly developed, have enough raw materials that they could recycle, that they could greatly reduce the amount of mining that they do, but this is only because those countries have been able to mine with industrial techniques for the last hundred and fifty years.
For poorer countries that developed much later, such as india or china, it's necessary that they continue mining raw materials so that they can a fuel their own development.
These countries can't fall back on the fruits of past mining, because it didn't take place at an industrial scale until a later date in their countries.
And moreover, much of what raw materials they did have would have been sent to colonial powers, for many countries, rather then remained in that country itself.
So we think that ultimately what happens if you ban mining is that you damn the world's poor to a shortage of resources.
Things that we take for granted in the united states, like aluminum or tin, would be in great shortages in many countries if they continue to develop and aren't allowed to mine new raw materials.
But what's more, the earth's bounty is not evenly shared across all nations.
Some countries are gifted with large stores of aluminum and others have none, for instance.
So it's important that mining continues, even in wealthy countries like the united states, so that the materials that are extracted are available to fuel development in poorer countries.
The people who really suffer if you ban mining are not wealthy mining execs.
It's going to be the global poor who won't have access to raw materials that they need in order to improve their own standard of living, and we think that is unacceptable and we are unwilling to trap these people at a lower level of development just so that we can enjoy slightly more pristine mountainsides.
Our next point is a response to what sam said about how necessity is the mother of invention.
We think that, if anything, it's likely that, going forward, mining will become much greener.
First of all, I'd just like to point out that there is a strong precedent for this.
Mining today is very different than mining in the nineteen thirties was.
It's much more eco-friendly.
We no longer just tear the tops off of mountains with no regard for who or what lives there.
So, ultimately, we think that we can create a better type of mining by imposing more regulations on mining companies.
If, for instance, we require better treatment for workers or surveys to check for endangered species, then we think it's likely that we can get the minerals that we need while also not doing it in the worst possible way.
So, ultimately, if you're concerned about endangered species or if you're concerned about workers' rights, it would be better to check for those things with regulation rather than just have a total ban on all mining.
But the last thing that I'd like to say, my final argument, is that mining just isn't a serious problem, right?
It is true that mining does massive ecological damage to a very small area, but we frankly just don't care about that.
The benefits of mining are extracted and then shared over an enormous amount of human beings worldwide.
So we think that the harms of mining are extremely local and, frankly, extremely minor, often limited to one mountainside or one town, while the benefits accrue for hundreds of millions of people.
So, ultimately, we think that if you just weigh the harms and the benefits, it's clear that mining does more good than bad and therefore that it ought continue.
So because we want to fuel future development, because we think that we can mine in a more responsible fashion, and because the harms are mitigated entirely by the benefits, we should not stop mining.
Thank you.