We should end progressive taxation.
So progressive taxation is, generally speaking, a tax on income wherein people who earn more money will pay a higher rate of tax.
The way that this works in the US, and I believe many other countries, is that the first six thousand dollars you make is tax free, the next six thousand dollars you make is taxed at a fairly low rate like five percent, and then as you make more and more money, the money earned above a certain amount is taxed at a higher rate.
So even if you make a hundred thousand dollars a year, the first six thousand dollars is untaxed, for instance.
You can think of it as a sort of series of buckets where as money overflows from one bucket into another, you have a higher rate of taxation.
This is in place in most US states and in most countries around the world.
Our first argument against progressive taxation is that it is unfair and arbitrary.
People who are very wealthy benefit the same amount from public services as people who are not very wealthy.
At that point we don't think they should have to pay more money in than anyone else.
For instance, everyone benefits from having streets and police officers, yet the poor drive on the same streets as the rich.
Why should the rich therefore pay a much greater percentage of their income than the poor?
We think that this burden falls unfairly on those groups.
The other team is going to get up here and tell you that the marginal value of a dollar is much higher for a poor person than a rich person.
But at that point we tell you, that it's not up to the state to determine the marginal value of a dollar to any individual citizen, that people know their own interests better than the government knows them and that we ought defer to people's knowledge of themselves rather than the state's ideas about how much money is worth to them.
We also think that the income brackets are completely arbitrary.
In the united states for instance we've often seen politician shuffle around income brackets, change who pays how much, raise taxes on the middle, lower, or upper classes in order to suit their voting bases.
This effectively just becomes a form of cronyism where people vote in groups that will lower their tax bracket and raise the amount of tax that other people pay.
We think that a flat tax would ultimately be less corrupt and less arbitrary.
Our second argument is that this creates needlessly complicated tax codes.
Right now in the united states as I mentioned earlier, the brackets themselves are fairly complicated.
But on top of that, in order to avoid paying higher rates of tax, people will go to extreme lengths to actually put themselves into certain tax brackets.
This might mean investing in fake investment vehicles or just refusing income because people don't want to pay tax at a higher rate.
There are lots of perverse incentives against people actually being productive, which is in the end, what's best for the economy.
So we think that this is an unnecessarily complex tax code that hurts the economy.
But it also provokes lots of tax evasion because it's so complicated.
We think that if you want to actually collect more tax, you should make it harder for people to evade their tax burden and that a flat tax would be simpler and easier to detect fraud.
Our third argument is that ultimately, a progressive income tax actually ignores people's ability to pay.
Why is this true?
Wealth is not taxed progressively if it's taxed at all.
Sure many areas have property taxes but these are almost always flat.
We tell you that ultimately wealth is a more important factor than income.
Someone could be a doctor or name lots and lots of income but have no personal wealth because they have lots of debt from medical school.
While the child of some millionaire might have very little income but have very valuable property.
We tell you that at that point, the person with the greater ability to pay and contribute to society is the person with lots of property not the person with lots of debt and that at that point, because progressive income taxes ignore the burden that people have in the form of debt, or ignore mitigating factors with regard to their income, that ultimately they're unfair.
We should therefore end progressive taxation.
Thank you.