We should not limit the right to asylum.
So, we think that countries should not have quotas for asylum seekers that they're willing to take in, that they should not impose strict background checks that exclude many people from receiving asylum, that they should not give preferential treatment to any one race, religion or sex, and that ultimately they should take as many people as they are physically able to do.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that these asylum seekers will die otherwise, which seems pretty straightforward but often gets ignored in discussions about people seeking asylum.
Many of the refugees coming from syria, if they were returned to their own country, would be killed by assad or by the rebel groups in that country.
So ultimately, what this debate is about is whether we should install quotas in order to maintain some arbitrary standards in our own country at the expense of hundreds of thousands of other people's lives.
We think that this is obviously unethical.
Ultimately, all human lives are valuable, and we think it's important that we take the actions that will preserve the most people's lives.
And when we're talking about asylum seekers, that ultimately means giving them a place to live in your country.
You don't necessarily have to completely integrate them into your society, but even just doing things like setting up refugee camps or places for them to receive food and shelter can be a way that we can meet our obligation to these people by saving their lives and offering them some amount of safety.
Our second point is that everyone has a duty to these asylum seekers.
Tim tells you that states only have an obligation to their citizens, but a state is made up of people.
So if individuals have an obligation to help others, then so do the states which they constitute.
Why do people have a duty to asylum seekers?
First of all, we tell you that if you imagine that someone knows nothing about themselves and their own life, if they step behind a magical veil that obscures them from any knowledge of their own, race, sex, national origin, et cetera, and ask people to make decisions from that perspective, they would always want us to help those who are worst off.
When you're behind the veil of ignorance, ultimately you have to contend with the fact that you could be the asylum seeker rather than the person living in germany or whatever other country might be taking you in.
At that point, you would want to defer to saving the life and preventing horrible suffering for the asylum seeker rather than maintaining one percent of the standard of living of a german, what they might suffer if their country took in lots of refugees and asylum seekers.
So ultimately, from this perspective it's clear that we ought help these people.
Ultimately, we would expect others to do the same for us and therefore, we owe it to do it when we're in that position to help others.
But we think on top of that that we have a duty to help these people because all human beings have moral worth, all human beings are equal, all human beings have certain rights guaranteed by the UN, and it's our obligation to uphold those rights if we want them to be more than a fiction on a piece of paper.
And our third and final point is that oftentimes the countries which would take in asylum seekers are complicit in the crisis that created the need for them to take asylum.
For instance, turkey has often intervened in the syrian civil war, which has led to that conflict being extended much longer than it needed to be, and ultimately many of the people who are displaced from syria were done so, in part, because of intervention by turkey or by european countries.
So we think that there's some obligation for the countries that meddled with syria's affairs to helped bear the cost to the syrian people.
So ultimately, while that's just one example, we think it's rare that a crisis is created without some action or inaction by another country that is partially responsible.
So we think that neighboring countries and countries that are very powerful oftentimes are complicit in these crises, and therefore have an obligation to these asylum seekers.
For all these reasons, we should not limit the right to asylum.
Thank you.