We should protect animal welfare.
So on our side, we think that governments and individuals should devote a substantial amount of energy into protecting the basic rights of animals, such as the right to be free from pain or from privation, and to protect them from human crimes or just general human poor behavior towards them.
With that in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that we think that the distinction between human and animal is in some way arbitrary.
Essentially, everyone in modern societies believes that all human beings deserve certain rights, that people deserve a safe place to live, that you shouldn't be able to harm other people, etcetera, and we apply this even to human beings who are fundamentally different from ourselves.
For instance, even little children, who don't have the same kind of mental capacities as adults, are still protected from being harmed by strangers and the like.
Even the mentally very ill, who may not have the same faculties as other people, are still granted a huge number of rights in terms of being protected from suffering.
We think that at the end of the day, it is arbitrary to say that every human being deserves certain rights but to deny them to animals that meet the same standards that we set for humans to gain those rights.
If there are animals that feel pain, that recognize and care for one another, that are able to interact with their world in a meaningful way, then why shouldn't those animals have the same opportunities that people have to avoid harm caused by others?
We're not saying that we should extend positive rights to these animals but we think that, at the least, things like preventing animal cruelty and like setting high standards for farming and the like are necessary, because these animals deserve some consideration if we think that anyone does.
If we don't extend these rights to animals, then we think that the application of rights is arbitrary and that this is a grave injustice, because rights gain much of their legitimacy from rather than being arbitrary, being fixed and clearly defined for everyone.
Our second argument for why we should protect animal welfare is that animals cannot help themselves.
We think that, generally speaking, governments intervene to help people when they can't act on their own behalf.
This is why the law takes such a strict view of any harm done to children as opposed to adults, because of the assumption that adults can generally remove themselves from difficult situations whereas children cannot.
But since animals don't have the same physical capabilities as humans and they can't speak, they have no ability to advocate for themselves.
They need someone else to advocate on their behalf and to protect them from human depredations.
We think that the state is the natural actor to get involved here because it's the only actor that can limit the behavior of all people in a given area.
Even if you have something like the royal society prevention of cruelty to animals, that group can still do relatively little compared to the state.
So we do think it's important that states get involved in protecting animal rights.
And our final argument is just that unfortunately, this is deeply necessary.
We can see that when there are not strong protections for animals, when there are not harsh penalties for animal cruelty, that people treat animals very poorly because they see them just as disposable property.
The clearest place to look to for this is the way that animals are treated in much of agriculture when many animals are treated absolutely horribly in ways that I won't go into here because it's not necessary.
But I think it's clear that human beings are not just, out of the goodness of their own hearts, going to treat animals with the respect that they deserve, rather that it's necessary to intervene at some point and to ensure that animals are treated with appropriate dignity and respect.
So for all of these reasons, we should protect animal welfare.
Thank you.