We should prohibit tower blocks.
So this is a debate about high rise buildings being built in cities.
On our side we're not advocating for tearing down new york city.
We think that future urban planners though, should prefer low and medium rise development, say buildings less than ten stories, as opposed to those which are much taller.
Twenty, thirty, forty, fifty stories like you see in places like new york.
Three arguments for why we think we should prohibit these tower blocks.
First is that they overburdened public services.
Right now the distribution of things like fire departments, police departments, and hospitals in many cities is based on geographical area.
So we have one hospital to serve a geographical area, like a ten mile radius let's say.
That basically works when geographical area is a proxy for population density.
When it becomes a problem is when one area becomes much more dense than the rest of the surrounding area.
Suddenly the public services allocated to that region are insufficient and we think it will be difficult for urban planners to keep up.
In particular, when you have areas which suddenly build lots and lots of new high rises after previously being much less dense, we think that it's difficult to build new hospitals and fire stations to serve them overnight.
Presumably these are in areas where land is in high demand, since we're spending all this money to build tower blocks, so at that point it seems quite likely to me that the land won't be freely available to build things like hospitals, like fire departments.
Our second argument is that these tower blocks are fundamentally unsustainable.
What do we mean by this?
There is a tendency, and we've seen this in places like the bronx, for housing to be built for rich people.
So you start out with a very nice apartment building, something like that, and then over time it's not well maintained.
New amenities get invented which aren't present in older buildings so rich people start moving out and middle class and working class people start moving in.
And then they start moving out and then suddenly this neighborhood begins to become somewhere that low income people live.
But at that point you have large, expensive to maintain buildings that aren't bringing in lots of rent.
So you have a negative feedback loop where the building continues to decline so anyone who can afford to leave leaves and ultimately you end up with people living in very poor conditions who can't afford to leave and not enough rent is being brought in by the building to replace them.
This is a problem when you're talking about a brownstone house that's four stories high.
But it's compounded when you're talking about an apartment building that thousands of people live in.
At the end of the day we think this is unsustainable and that it harms the quality of life for people that live there.
Our third and final argument is that higher population density in cities actually leads to lower quality of life.
I don't think it's any surprise that many of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the united states are not ones with high rises.
The other team can talk about the upper west side if they want to, but for every instance like that, there are many more areas like cleveland heights, which are fairly dense but that are dense with houses as opposed to high rises.
We think that ultimately it is easier to provide higher quality of life with low rise development because people are able to own property, it's possible to redevelop a block more easily when you don't have these high rises, it is easier to widen roads to provide public services.
Ultimately the quality of life for people who live there is much greater.
And even if you see the phenomenon I described before, where rich people move out of an area and gradually it becomes less and less well off, we still tell you that the problem is exacerbated less when it's easier to provide high quality public services for all the reasons we described above.
So ultimately we think you're likely to end up with higher quality of life on aggregate without tower blocks.
So for these three reasons we should prohibit tower blocks.
Thank you.