We should end development aid.
Development aid is money given by wealthy countries or institutions like the IMF and the world bank to poorer countries in order in theory to help them to develope from being relatively underdeveloped to eventually becoming fully developed countries.
Unfortunately we think that oftentimes this money is given with a lot of strings attached that actually make it harder for those countries to develop.
So our first argument is going to be about how this fosters dependence on development aid.
When countries receive lots of development aid, oftentimes it becomes a major part of their government budget.
So these countries now rely on that development aid just for the way that their government ordinarily functions.
After all, when you have more money coming in spending increases that is after all the point of this aid but that means that if the money should ever go away that ultimately you're going to have to raise that money in another way whether by higher taxes or by lowering spending and that's very unlikely to be popular with your populace.
So this creates a system where governments are dependent on receiving development aid after they begun to receive it.
What does that do?
It let's institutions like the world bank or the IMF dictate to countries what they are going to do in the future and how to govern.
We think that this is problematic for a few reasons, one because it's undemocratic.
Nobody elects the bureaucrats who run the world bank.
They're appointed by the united states and a handful of european countries.
Secondly it's problematic because oftentimes these institutions don't really care about the well-being of people in these countries.
They want to maximize the benefits for the US and wealthy european countries because those are the countries that control the world bank and the IMF.
That's why the world bank and the IMF often tell countries to radically liberalize their economies, even if that means giving up the ability to exploit their own mineral rights or the ability to develop their own industries in favor of letting western companies come in and use their labor very cheaply.
It's true that some countries have implemented this with a certain amount of success.
India has become much wealthier in the last twenty years through market liberalization, but every country that is highly developed got there through a process of protectionism.
Countries like the US and south korea didn't have free trade during the period when they were developing most rapidly otherwise their industry would have been choked.
So we think that this is unlikely to lead to development and that because of the dependence that it fosters, countries are going to be unable to get away from these harmful policies in order to pursue something that would lead to good development.
Ultimately that's probably the biggest harm of this development aid.
But our second argument is that it's used to prop up bad governments.
In many cases, regimes or governments that would have been toppled by their people or ousted by some other faction are able to stay in power because of an influx of outside capital.
We think that ultimately when you have a very unpopular government that's supported by development aid, it's unlikely that people are going to be able to replace them.
This is true to an extent in south africa where, the government is fairly unpopular but receives lots of aid from the outside world.
They can use this aid to buy a certain amount of support or to prop themselves up.
Ultimately again this subverts democratic will within the country because even if people want a government with less corruption, they're not going to be able to get it as long as the international community is supporting the existing government.
We think that this is the real harm of development aid, is that even if it has good intentions behind it and I've already explained that often it doesn't, it will always subvert democratic will because it's money being sent by other countries in order to tell governments what they should and should not do.
This money always comes with strings attached in terms of how it's spent so people in that country lose control of their government policy.
Ultimately we don't think it's worth it.
For these reasons we should and development aid.
Thank you.