We should not abandon feminism.
On our side of the house, we're going to take the extremely radical stance that feminism should not be gotten rid of.
Our first argument is that it's extremely necessary to fight against sexism in society right now and that feminism is the vehicle through which we do that.
It's true that some people don't like the name " feminism ", and I'll come back to that later, but it's extremely important to raise awareness of all the ways that gender influences the way that people think and are allowed to act in our society.
It's not enough to just say, " oh, we have women working in lots of different jobs and there's been a couple of female prime ministers in britain, so sexism is completely gone now, " because things like rape culture absolutely still exist and influence the way that people can interact.
And, in fact, what we're seeing is that now, as more women feel comfortable coming forward about sexism because of a hundred years of feminism and counting, that actually not as much progress as many people would like to believe has been made in the workplace.
We've seen this, for instance, from the scandals in hollywood recently and throughout the US.
But moreover, we think it's critical that we don't abandon feminism, because it's important that we don't abandon marginalized groups.
Ultimately, right now, it's true that things have kind of gotten better if you're a rich white woman, right?
Hillary clinton can run for president, but that's not really all that feminism is about.
As long as we have young girls from low-income neighborhoods being abandoned to raise kids when they're seventeen, because they're not allowed to get an abortion and they're not allowed to work in certain jobs because of their culture, ultimately it's absolutely critical that we have feminism.
And that's just speaking about the highly developed world.
In many countries right now, women still aren't allowed the same legal rights as men.
And legal rights are only the first step to achieving social equality, which hasn't been achieved in any country to date.
So, ultimately, it's essential not only that we continue feminism in the developed world, but that we encourage global feminism and intersectional feminism that brings more women out of this position of inferiority that they've been placed into by patriarchal societies the world over.
It's critical that we don't forget that institutions like colonialism, like systemic racism, fall most harshly on those who are already discriminated against, namely women in this case.
Therefore, it's absolutely essential that we strengthen feminism worldwide, not abandon it.
But most of danny's arguments, to move on to my second point, are about pushback, and we're going to argue that pushback is actually good.
You know, in the early twentieth century, a lot of men were really upset that women wanted the vote in england, but we see today that this was just completely unfounded and that literally nothing bad came of this.
This pushback is important because, first of all, it creates discourse and people realize how stupid they've been.
Ultimately, the reason why women gained the right to vote, gained the right to get an abortion, and all of these other things is because after there was all of this outcry from older men, younger men eventually came around to the idea that women might be people and might deserve the same rights that they have and might deserve special consideration in some instances, and this is how things have changed over the last hundred years.
Pretty much every generation thinks that their parents' generation was sexist, but that they've figured it out.
If we get rid of feminism right now, we're going to be stuck at the same level of development in terms of women's rights and minority rights that we have right now, which is completely unacceptable because the status quo is still really bad, even if it's better than it was in nineteen seventy seven.
Ultimately, people my parents' age think that things are great now, and it's important that we keep pushing beyond that point by encouraging feminism to grow and develop.
We've already had three waves of feminism and maybe it's high time for a fourth wave in order to push past the problems that we have right now.
So because it's still critical to fight patriarchal institutions and because pushback is ultimately good for progress, we should not abandon feminism.
Thank you.