The blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.
So for a little bit of context: for about ten years now, israel and egypt have closed off the gaza strip to the world.
Over a million people live in the city of gaza, to say nothing of other settlements in the strip.
Before the blockade, while the city had a lower standard of living than israel proper or than egypt, the standard of living was comparable to many other large cities in the middle east.
Today, the city has a standard of living much lower than north korea and to say nothing of the fact that terror has actually continued at a higher rate during the blockade.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for our side.
The first is that the blockade has created an unacceptable humanitarian crisis.
There is effectively no legal way to bring in food and medical supplies to gaza, which means that people depend entirely on smugglers to get basic things that they need to live, such as diapers, vegetables, or any sort of advanced medical supplies.
These people are living in conditions that would be considered unacceptable in sub-saharan africa or in north korea, but they're doing it right next to a very wealthy country, namely, israel, that without this blockade could provide services to them.
And moreover, many other countries, such as france, have tried to help people living in gaza and been prevented by the blockade.
So we think that this is just unacceptable.
Most people in gaza are living on less than two dollars a day right now, which means that it's actually a lower standard of living than almost any country in the world despite the fact that before this happened, the standard of living was relatively high.
So we think that because people are starving, because they're dying because of a lack of access to medical supplies, because their children can't go to school and be educated, because they can't choose to leave even if they want to, that this is just unacceptable and that nothing like this should happen in the twenty-first century, that this is one of the grossest human rights abuses going on in the world today, and that it has to end.
But our second argument is that this actually makes terror worse.
The reason why the blockade went into effect is because hamas won the elections in gaza, which meant that you had a terrorist group in control of the gaza strip.
But since the israelis and the egyptians blocked off access to gaza, we haven't seen hamas be weakened.
They're still in power there.
In fact, just today I read that they've officially entered a new agreement with fatah that seems likely to entrench their power even more going forward.
But moreover, aside from the fact that this hasn't worked to end terror, it actually breeds more terror in the future, and here's why: the reason why people become terrorists is a lack of opportunity.
The most dangerous thing in the world is lots of young men who don't have jobs, don't see any way to get jobs, and feel like the world has nothing to offer them.
And the blockade has created exactly that situation.
You have a hundred thousand young men about my age, who ought to be working and having babies and going to school, and instead what are they doing?
They're living in awful conditions that they blame justly on israel and egypt, and the only people offering to change anything are terrorist groups like hamas.
So, ultimately, it makes perfect sense that these young men will join hamas, will launch attacks on israel, will contribute to the problem with terror in the region.
So if you want to end this terror, you need to give people economic opportunities, and the blockade makes that impossible.
Even if young men in gaza want to go out and get jobs and have normal lives, they're not able to because of this blockade, which means that terrorism is the only thing that's left open to them, because it's the only avenue that they see to get the normal life that they want.
So for all these reasons, the blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.
Thank you.