We should not abolish eminent domain.
We think that eminent domain is necessary for a civil society and that to get rid of it would be very short-sighted.
We think eminent domain can be used as one of many tools for governments to acquire land when it's necessary.
We're fine with regulating eminent domain.
We don't necessarily agree with kelo versus new london or any particular court case, but we think it does have a place in america and in other liberal democracies.
Our first argument is about how this is a public good.
Sometimes, governments have to confiscate private land in order to build streets or other necessary services.
Now, the reason why eminent domain is necessary is because sometimes not just any land will do.
If you're building a railroad, for instance, you need all of the land in order between two cities.
And if you have ninety eight percent of the farmers in an area agreeing to sell their land and two people holding out, they could potentially drive up the cost of that railroad astronomically because they're trying to route you around their land.
Obviously, that's not in the public interest.
So we think that, at some point, the government has to be able to step in and say, " you know what?
This railroad benefits thousands of people, tens of thousands of people.
There's no way that two farmers get to drive up the cost by three percent and cost taxpayers millions and millions of dollars. "
And, in particular, I think this is true, because many people initially refuse to sell to the government without eminent domain because they know that the state will probably pay an unfairly high rate if they're the last people to sell out.
We don't think people should be rewarded for extorting the government and, moreover, we also think you're open to a lot of corruption if government agents know that someone is going to be able to sell last.
For instance, they might buy land along the path of a railroad or encourage someone else to and then split the money once they know that the state can be extorted.
There were a lot of problems with this and similar issues when the united states was building a railroad from the atlantic to to the pacific, and this actually lead to a lot of anticorruption reforms in the US.
But we think that, ultimately, eminent domain is sometimes just necessary and therefore that if we ban it, you'll either have much more expensive public works projects or much worse public works projects overall.
Our second argument is that this is the best compromise between public and private goods.
Clearly, it would always be best for private landowners if no one could ever touch their land and take it away from them.
And, clearly, it would always be best for the public if whenever it was for the good of the majority of people, we could take away someone's property and do what we want with it.
But there has to be some sort of compromise, right?
No one would do business in a country if your property could just be seized by the mob.
So, ultimately, we've come to a compromise that you have to be paid a fair market rate and that eminent domain can only be used for the public good.
Now maybe we need a more restrictive definition of the public good but, ultimately, I think it's clear that there has to be some sort of compromise and whatever you do will look an awful lot like eminent domain.
And our final argument is just that eminent domain actually prevents the government from being more abusive.
By requiring the state to pay market rate and go through certain channels to acquire people's land, you don't have to do things like try to force people to sell.
Back in the nineteenth century, you used to see, for instance, railroad owners try to force people off of their land through violence or through bribery, and threats, and extortion.
Eminent domain is much more civilized version of getting people off of their land.
There's no violence and people get paid a fair rate rather than being bullied by private enterprise or by government agents.
Many people don't see it that way, but I think that they're not looking at the fact that the alternative is actually much worse if we look at the history of this.
For all these reasons, we should not ban eminent domain.
Thank you.