We should abolish homework.
Ultimately, while homework may be useful for some people, it's not beneficial to all students.
So we think it would be preferable if students spent more time at school in a structured environment at the expense of not spending time outside of school working necessarily on their school work.
So our first argument is about reducing pressures on students.
The US in particular has a massive problem with depression and anxiety among young people.
Many teenagers kill themselves or try to kill themselves every year especially in high school and we see that the rates of mental illness among high school students are extremely high.
One reason why the rate of mental illness has probably gone up in recent years is because of the increasing demands on student's time.
Ultimately, high school students are under a huge amount of pressure to get into a good college and that means studying an inordinate amount because they have to have absolutely perfect grades and also doing huge amounts of extra curricular activities to prove that they're well rounded for these holistic college applications.
It's true that american children don't go to cram school, more on that in just a minute, but the demands on their time are still enormous and many students are working on either extra curriculars or school work from literally the moment they wake up until the moment they go to bed while they're in high school and have no meaningful free time or opportunities to be children.
So ultimately, we think that by removing homework, which in many cases has ballooned to ridiculous proportions for student spending hours and hours on homework every night, by abolishing this homework we would free up time for students to actually have time to themselves and also to work on things that interest them rather than just whatever is going to look the best on their common application for yale and harvard.
At the end of the day, it is imperative that we deal with the public health crisis that is youth mental health and abolishing homework would go a long way towards improving this since homework is one of the largest external factors in harming young people's mental state.
But our second argument is that homework also isn't a very good way to teach people things.
It's true that some subjects are always going to require that students do practice in order to get better.
You have to do a certain amount of algebra problems before you learn how to use the quadratic equation.
You have to learn your spanish verb conjugations and all of those kind of things.
But there's no reason why this has to be done at home rather than at school.
We think that if there was more pressure on teachers to use classroom time effectively, something that many secondary school teachers just don't pay any attention to and also if there were more opportunities for students to get their work done in a very focused, productive environment like a study hall, that ultimately students could devote less time and get the same outcomes in terms of mastering skills through repetition.
So we don't think that homework is pedagogically necessary for students to actually be able to learn the skills that they need to learn in school.
In fact, we think that homework sometimes gets in the way of students learning.
When students are forced to devote a huge amount of time to doing practice problems or filling out verb charts no matter what they actually struggle with, homework can actually get in the way if they're learning the things that do give them a hard time.
Many students have different needs that aren't going to be met by one size fits all homework.
After all, an assignment that might help the majority of people in class might not help someone who lacks a basic foundation or might not help a student who needs more advanced work because they already understand what's going on in the class.
Oftentimes those pupils are simply given more work, that only intensifies the burdens on their time that I talked about in our first argument.
So we think that it would be better if we could tailor the work to individual students rather than give a one size fits all homework and having more one-on-one time with teachers and a longer school day might be an effective way to do that.
For all of these reasons, we should abolish homework.
Thank you.