We should not fight against global warming.
By this we mean, following the last speaker's model, that we should prioritize economic growth over radical action against climate change.
So, for instance, we would be alright with developing countries continuing to build new coal and natural gas power plants and then moving over to more sustainable energy sources as they develop.
With this in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first and perhaps the most important is that current people's rights are more important than future people's rights.
Why is this the case?
People who are alive right now at this moment have certain rights claims.
They deserve to live in a clean, safe environment to be sure, but they also deserve a job, electricity, access to medicine and other things that can all only be provided in much of the developing world if their countries drastically increase energy production.
What this means is that future people, who might bear most of the cost in two hundred years of rising sea levels, don't deserve the same consideration as those people who live in dramatic levels of poverty right now.
These future people don't yet exist so they cannot yet exert any rights claim on states.
So with that in mind, countries should focus on raising the standard of living of their existing citizens rather than worry about what will happen two hundred years down the line.
We think that this is a moral obligation, because the people who are suffering right now from poverty run the risk of death or much less satisfying lives than they might otherwise have because of easily preventable things, like disease or poverty or hunger, which we could remove if we just increase energy production in their countries.
Our second argument is that future technology will mitigate most or all of the harms of CO two emissions.
It's true that, right now, we don't have the technology to remove the harms of CO two emissions or to lower global temperatures, but that doesn't mean that we won't in the future.
One hundred years ago, the airplane had just been invented, and about fifty years ago, the first man landed on the moon.
We've seen that in the past, with massive government spending, technology can advance extremely quickly.
We think that something similar is likely to happen with climate change.
As cities like new york or london are threatened by rising tides, we think it's likely that global governments will come up with a way to mitigate the harms of climate change and that this technology will then spread to the rest of the world as well, allowing citizens even of poorer countries, like bangladesh, to not have to face the worst outcomes of global warming as their governments adopt these technologies.
So we think that in the long term, technology will neutralize most of the harms of climate change and it would be unnecessary to throw away all the benefits of burning fossil fuels in the meantime.
Our third and final argument is that the market can ultimately solve the problem of CO two consumption.
As we drill more and more natural gas and oil out of the earth, it becomes more expensive to continue to rely on oil and natural gas.
We think, therefore, that the market will naturally resolve this problem and people will switch over to solar panels for two reasons.
One: it will be too expensive to keep using the existing carbon based technology, and two: alternative energy sources, such as solar power, will become so much more efficient that everyone will switch over to them to save money.
With this in mind, it seems completely unnecessary to take radical action right now.
We think that by letting the market solve the problem, you get a more enduring solution where people think that this is a good idea, whereas a top-down government approach to the to the carbon industry might lead people to resent that government intervention or try to go back to carbon technologies after the next election.
So for all of these reasons, we should not fight against global warming.
Thank you.