We should not abandon television.
So in this debate we're going to demonstrate to you that even if television changes in the future or even if it loses its media dominance, it's not something that we should get rid of entirely.
We think that the other team in this debate needs to explain to you why television should go away entirely rather than remain around in a different form or with less use.
Three arguments for our side: first, many unique art forms rely on television as a medium.
We tell you that for instance, the way that people engage with things like comedy and drama produced for TV, is different than how they engagement with it when produced as a film or for other media.
The other side might tell you that ultimately these things can be produced and consumed for streaming on a computer instead.
But at that point we don't see any harm to having the actual television around as well.
If people want to watch on a big screen mounted on their wall instead of on their laptop we just don't see why there's any reason why they shouldn't be able to.
But there's also a certain amount of detail and a certain culture that relies on the existence of televisions.
Many of these media are produced because it's assumed that people will watch them in a certain way.
So there are jokes and there are formatting things that are only possible because of the television.
This has also become part of the national psyche, in the united states at least and I assume in many other countries, the idea of people getting together to watch television as a family and consuming certain media in that way.
So at the point when you would lose out on all of these unique benefits of television to really no gain by switching over to watching things on computers instead, we just don't think there's any reason to abandon television and we think the other side has an affirmative burden to prove that there is.
Our second argument is about accessibility.
Many people are not going to be able to switch over to streaming or smaller screens.
We tell you that many elderly people aren't going to be able to learn how to consume media over online streaming and the like.
These people deserve to be able to participate in pop culture as much as anyone else because this influences national dialogue, how we view ourselves and others, and ultimately actually has lots of effects on the real world.
If you switched everything over to streaming in media, many of these people would be shut out of the national discourse.
We think that that's unacceptable, particularly when many of them are older people or otherwise people who, through no fault of their own, aren't going to be able to transfer to watching netflix or whatever instead of watching cable TV.
Because of these concerns about accessibility, we think that there would be a huge loss if we switched over away from television.
Keeping it around has very few harms and protects these groups who, through no fault of their own, are less able to adopt new technology so we think that ultimately we ought to do so.
But our third and final point is that television can coexist with other platforms.
There's nothing to stop the production of media for streaming just because cable TV exists.
Right now we have netflix original series and we have things produced by cable channels and people watch both and enjoy both.
Many forms of media like certain HBO productions are hybrids with some people watching shows like game of thrones on the computer and others watching them on the TV.
We just don't see why there's any trade off here.
The motion presents a false dichotomy.
Abandoning television will not make streaming better and keeping both around ultimately has no harm to either.
There's no trade-off.
Indeed, much of the media consumed through one is actually also able to be consumed for the other.
At this point we tell you that we prefer a world where television coexist with other platforms.
We think this will encourage more creativity as artists try to target one or more of these platforms as opposed to not having that opportunity.
If television goes the way of the record player and things like that, we think we would actually lose out on certain cultural and social and artistic functions of this media.
So ultimately we think that we should not abandon television.
Thank you.