We should not abolish trade barriers.
We oppose efforts by groups like the world bank to force countries to open up their trade to every single country in the world and to completely liberalize.
We think that protectionism absolutely has a place in today's economy and to think otherwise would be a bit naive.
Let's talk about why.
Our first argument, out of two, is that this hinders development for developing countries.
Recognize that the one of the most important theories for international trade is the idea of comparative advantage: the idea that great britain can produce sweaters better than america and america produces blue greens better than great britain, so it's better to have jeans made in america and sweaters made in britain than having both countries make both.
This is the kind of idea that's taught in intro economic textbooks and the idea that liberals like to trot out when they defend free trade.
The problem is that, sometimes, one country produces everything better than another country.
There is no finished good that is produced better in bangladesh than in britain, most likely, just because technology is so much better, and the workforce is so much more well-trained.
So the only thing that bangladesh has a comparative advantage on over britain is that their labor is very cheap, because the standard of living is low and you don't have to pay your workers as much in bangladesh as in britain.
What this means is that the only way for bangladesh to compete with britain, on an open market, is to keep their wages down.
And not only do they have to be lower than britain, which maybe would be fine, cause britain has a very high standard of living, but they have to be lower than every other developing country that could make things as well.
This means that countries like bangladesh that are very, very poor and rely a lot on exported manufactured goods, look at your tee shirt sometime, it probably came from bangladesh, these countries are kind of trapped in that tee shirt phase of development when they make things that are very cheap and are made with lots of cheap labor, because western countries can't compete with the cheapness of their labor.
If they try to innovate and have a more educated workforce, then suddenly they won't be able to compete and their economy will tank.
And since the only path to development is for countries to move from agriculture to industry to a service economy, we think that, ultimately, this shuts many countries out of developing and dooms their populace to a future where the only jobs available will be making tee shirts in sweat shops for a dollar a day, and we think that's very unfair to the people who live there and to the future people who will live there as well.
So we think it's perfectly acceptable for these countries to use tariffs in order to make foreign goods more expensive so that their own businesses can grow up and actually be able to compete, and then maybe once they're wealthy enough, they can lower tariffs again, but not before that point.
And our last argument is that, actually, sometimes free trade isn't a good thing for countries, even if they do get cheaper goods, when they're wealthier.
So, essentially, we've talked a lot about development, now what's look at how this affects highly developed countries.
If you have total economic liberalism, for instance, you have to let foreign countries come in and exploit natural resources.
This might mean letting a chinese company come and drill for oil right off the coast of the united states.
This means that in an instance of national security, when you need to have total control of your oil, you don't have it because you're relying on foreign countries to exploit your natural resources.
Similarly, it might be better for a country to slowly phase out industrial labor and big factories rather than get rid of the jobs all at once.
What we saw in the US, due to the economic liberalism of the nineteen eighties, is that all of the manufacturing jobs left the country in a matter of a decade and, suddenly, millions and millions of people were left without jobs.
So we can't really blame other countries if they want to avoid making that mistake in the future.
For all of these reasons, we should not abolish trade barriers.
Thank you.