We should increase ecotourism.
Ecotourism is when people travel to a pristine or untouched natural area in order to experience its beauty.
So, for instance, people might travel to the brazilian rainforest or to a tropical reef in malaysia in order to experience something that is relatively in very good shape compared to the environments that they're used to.
And when we say increase, we think that permits should be issued to allow people to go to these special destinations, that national tourism boards should encourage this kind of thing.
And a good model for this, I think, is malaysia, a country which has done a lot to make its natural resources accessible to people and to promote them globally.
So with this in mind, we're going to talk about how this influences the public, the government, and corporations.
So first, we think that this increases public investment and support for conservation.
So, when someone travels to a place like sipadan, a famous coral reef for scuba diving in malaysia, most people probably don't care a lot about the state of coral reefs in malaysia, even though they're very important to the environment, unless they have some direct connection.
But when people travel to sipadan or to other locations like it around the world, they suddenly have a very personal, close, immediate connection with this conservation project to maintain these very pristine, natural environments.
So obviously there's a tradeoff.
When you let tourists come in, even if it's limited and very tightly controlled, you still are going to have some people damage some of the environment, maybe pieces of coral will break off accidentally.
But we think that that can be mitigated and managed and that the benefits of having the public donate money or donate their time in order to protect these natural resources, even in other countries, is very important, that when you attract especially an international audience, you greatly increase the amount of money and attention that your site is able to draw.
And our next argument, which draws from some of those points, is about how this increases government attention.
If you have thousands of people traveling from australia and europe and the united states to this little island in malaysia, this conservation site, then the local government has much more incentive to protect that site so that they keep getting this tourism money.
So you really align the incentives here in a good way.
The government wants tourism money so in order to get that, they need to protect the conservation area, which means that you've now created an incentive for the government to protect that area and increase conservation, no matter what.
So, ultimately, this can provoke governments to do the right thing and to protect pristine environments, to protect wildlife, and to protect the way of life of the people who live in these areas and need to take advantage of these conservation sites.
And third and finally, we say that this can prevent corporate greed.
So, for instance, there are many companies that want to mine or get timber from the brazilian rainforest, and a huge problem for the world today is that so much of the rainforest is being cut down, which means that those trees aren't taking in carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and the earth is growing warmer partly as a result.
We can prevent this kind of corporate greed in our world because of the incentives we talked about in our earlier points.
Now if you have people who really want to visit these sites from more developed countries, then it's likely that they will lobby the existing government in a way that citizens of a developing country might not be able to and that they'll donate money to protect the sites, again, in a way that the citizens of a developing country might not be able to.
But what's more, this gives governments an incentive not to let these corporations be greedy and ruin our environment because of the tourism money.
So on our side, we counteract the interests and the greed of these corporations that's damaging our environment.
For all these reasons, we should increase ecotourism.
Thank you.