Begging should not be banned.
On our side, we're going to argue, first of all, that people don't choose to beg, that they're forced into it through circumstance, that this is just using violence to punish people for poverty and, finally, that ultimately this removes the political will to help people in need.
So, first, why do we think nobody chooses to beg but rather that these people have no alternative?
Because I'm sure the other side of this debate will claim that there are lots of professional beggars who are capable of doing other work and instead who choose to beg, but I don't think this is really true, first, begging probably has a really low return for the amount of time that it takes every day.
In order to be a successful beggar, sure, you might get one really generous person who comes along and gives you, you know, twenty dollars, but even that is only what you would make in one or two hours of working at a normal job.
So I think it's clear that most people who beg have to spend a lot of their time begging, in other words, that it's really all they do.
And this is probably why most of the people you see begging, at least in los angeles or in boston, where I'm most familiar with it, the people are homeless, because this is the only way that they can get income and they have nothing else to do with their time during the day.
We don't think that anybody says, " wow, I would rather be a beggar than work minimum wage, " because that's probably just not reasonable.
You make less money and you have a lower standard of living.
So we think that, ultimately, punishing this is punishing people who have no alternative.
So even if you criminalize begging or ban begging, people are still going to do it because they have no other option, so this won't be effective.
So if this doesn't deter begging, we think that this law doesn't achieve anything, and we think that, therefore, we're going to win this debate unless the other team can show that they do achieve something.
Our second point is that this just criminalizes poverty, right?
Even if you think that there are people who opt into begging because they don't want to get a traditional nine to five job, we think those people are very marginal.
We think that everyone who begs, though, is in poverty.
There's nobody who has like a good middle-class income and a toyota in the driveway, who is a beggar.
These are people who, at the very best, might be able to afford some marginal accommodation somewhere, but we think most of them probably sleep in shelters even.
So these are the poorest people in society.
We think these people need more help and compassion from society, not more violence from the police.
These are people who are already much more likely to be assaulted, more likely to be the victims of violent crimes.
These are people who need our protection and our love and support, not people who need to be punished, and that's really all this is.
This policy is no different than just saying we're going to arbitrarily go after the poorest people in society with violence, because that's effectively who this targets, and we just think that that's unjust.
And our final argument is that this removes the political will to help people in need.
The existence of very visible, very poor and needy people reminds those in the middle class that not everyone has the same lifestyle they do.
If you live in a neighborhood where you never encounter anyone in poverty, then it's probably easy to think that in countries like america or britain, everyone is doing really well, even though nothing could be further from the truth.
The only sort of harsh reminder people get that there are people starving to death in the wealthiest countries in the world is when they see people begging on the street.
And this makes a lot of people very uncomfortable, because it reminds them of the fact that these countries make this grand promise that everyone has a good life, and in fact it's not true.
We think that if you get rid of these very visible beggars and homeless people that ultimately you're going to remove any political will to help these people, because everyone will forget that they exist, or rather everyone with political power and the ability to force politicians to act will forget about them.
So, ultimately, we think that, on the other side, they make the lives of these people who are worst off in the debate much worse and, therefore, that we should not ban begging.
Thank you.