We should not increase financial aid in the united states.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why, even though this policy seems really good for students on face, it would actually be harmful for students and for the education system as a whole.
So, first of all, why would this be bad for students?
We tell you that if you increase financial aid, you'll actually drive up tuition and that one reason why tuition cost in the united states have skyrocketed is because they're so much financial aid available to students.
Now, why is this true?
We tell you that if students have access to easy money, then universities will be able to charge more.
This is true because universities know that they can't charge more than students can actually afford to pay.
So, ordinarily, there would be a limit to university tuition based on incomes in your country.
So in the nineteen eighties, for instance, before this runaway tuition began, most universities charged such low tuition that if you worked full-time during the summer, you could afford to pay tuition the following year, and universities were hesitant to raise their tuition much past that point because if they did, they knew that fewer students would be able to attend their school, and they don't want that to happen for academic reasons.
But as we saw an increase in availability of grants and loans from the government, basically, easy money, suddenly students could afford to pay more and so slowly university started to charge more.
And this process continued throughout the nineties, and the two thousands, and this decade to the point that we now have universities charging sixty thousand dollars for tuition that were charging eight thousand dollars thirty years ago.
The education hasn't changed, all that's changed is students' ability to pay.
And we think that, for instance, the building boom on many american college campuses that's sometimes cited as a reason for high tuition is actually just a symptom of this access to easy money from universities.
Because remember, when students borrow money to pay their universities, they're basically borrowing money on the school's behalf.
So this has been a huge increase in schools' credit as well.
Next, we think that if you were to increase financial aid, you would have large tradeoffs with other parts of the education system.
Recognize that there's a limited amount of money that the state can spend on education in any given year so that, for instance, if we're spending more money on post-secondary education, either that has to trade off with secondary and primary education or with other parts of the budget.
Why do we think that's unfair?
First of all, it's generally seen that secondary education is a fundamental right.
Every state has laws that require every student be offered secondary education, and most states require that students go to school until they're sixteen.
So we see that there is it's seen that there's a more basic right to have secondary education than tertiary education, which isn't mandatory anywhere, although states choose to offer it.
So if there's a tradeoff with secondary education, we think that's unfair not only because it affects many more people, since everyone goes to high school but only about half of people go to college, but moreover, we think it's unfair because it's undermining a more basic right, namely, one's right to a secondary education.
We also think that these tradeoffs are unlikely to be applied equally.
If you're taking money from all secondary schools to give to universities, you're transferring money away from low-income high schools and giving it to wealthy college students in many cases.
Why?
Well, this reduces funds the most for poor schools that rely heavily on the state because their communities can't afford to pay for their education, and then gives that money to the types of students who tend to go to college, namely, white students, middle-class students, as opposed to low-income people of color, who are probably the ones who lose out the most if we reduce the budget for secondary school.
So for all these reasons, we should not increase financial aid.
Thank you.