We should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
We're perfectly fine with private entities like harvard or private labs doing embryonic stem cell research, but we don't think that the US or EU governments should be funding it.
Three arguments for why this is the case.
The first is that funding embryonic stem cell research is unfair to religious taxpayers.
When people pay their taxes they do it with the assumption that the state will be use their money fundamentally for the good of society.
Now it may be true that embryonic stem cell research will pan out and will ultimately be beneficial for society, but the fact remains that billions of people believe that it is deeply unethical to harvest embryonic stem cells from fetuses, which is the primary source of them right now.
At the point at which something like three-quarters of americans and a majority of people in every country in europe are christians, we don't think that the state should spend money on something that is so actively contrary to the ethical views of their citizens.
In other words, because democratic countries rely on their citizens approval for their legitimacy, we don't think that it is legitimate for them to carry out acts which the majority of their citizens would find deeply, ethically troubling.
Embryonic stem cell research is one such practice, so we don't think that government should be funding it.
Instead, they should leave this to private entities and if it later turns out that this is so beneficial or so important that we can't leave it to private entities to research, then perhaps it can be reconsidered and hopefully public opinion will change.
But that's not the case right now.
Our second argument is that ultimately public funding is unnecessary and leads to unneeded trade-offs.
We tell you that embryonic stem cell research right now has tremendous amounts of private support.
Many universities around the world are heavily involved and we don't think that embryonic stem cell research would stall if we were to spend government money elsewhere.
On the other hand, there are many things we can invest this money in that private researchers will never focus on.
Cures for rare diseases for instance are unlikely to make money and often not en vogue at universities.
We think that state money would be better spent on healthcare research rather than the stem cell research.
The other side is obviously going to argue that there are health care applications for stem cells, but spending more money on something like a cure for diabetes that affects millions of people already and which is potentially in reach in our lifetimes seems like a much better use of state funds than stem cell research in terms of the benefits it would have to people.
More on that in just a moment.
Because the state has a limited research bunny budget every year and because money is fungible, we tell you that ultimately we ought allocate it to other research projects instead which are less likely to attract private funding in the long term.
Our third and final argument is that even if stem cell research is good and even if stem cell research be practical for the state to finance at the expense of other things.
It is not the most utile application of state funds.
Why is this important?
First of all, we think that governments have an obligation to use their money to do the most good possible, otherwise taxpayers are simply not getting a good bang for their buck.
Because the state is acting on behalf of taxpayers to make decisions that they couldn't make for themselves, we think it's important that it takes their best interests into account.
Even if stem cells have many uses in the future, the most damning medical problems that we have right now in the status quo are not going to be resolved through stem cell research most likely.
Things like a cure for diabetes, cures for many common forms of cancer, ending malaria, and other very noble causes could be done much more cheaply and have much greater utilitarian outcomes than the stem cell research that is being done at the moment.
We think that with this in mind it would be a misuse of funds not to focus on those things at the expense of stem cell research, since they do more good from a utilitarian perspective.
For all these reasons, we should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
Thank you.