We should ban coal mining.
So we think that in areas where coal is commonly mined, such as appalachia in the united states, that its harvesting should be banned.
Right now in the status quo coal mining is heavily subsidized through various federal programs and hasn't been profitable in most of the united states since the early twentieth century, but many communities in states like west virginia are completely dependent on coal for their existence.
We say too bad.
The externalities of coal are much too great and the cost to the rest of society are unfair.
We need to get rid of coal completely, not try to prop it up with the myth of clean coal or whatever west virginians are peddling to the rest of us these days.
Our first argument is that coal is environmentally destructive.
In order to extract coal, it's often necessary to tear apart entire mountains to get the maximum amount of coal inside.
So it not only damages areas while it's being extracted by polluting water and harming people who live there, more on that in just a moment, but it's not like you can ever return to these places and find them back in the condition they once were.
All of the topsoil washes away, all of the animals have to leave, and you're left with a barren wasteland as a result of coal mining.
We think that it's not bad enough that coal is one of the largest things that's destroying our environment through climate change, but also that the extraction of coal is an environmental disaster.
For both of these reasons we ought to get rid of it.
Our second argument is that banning coal would force communities to move on.
Many communities really just should not exist that were founded around coal.
People moved into really harsh parts of appalachia because there were coal mining jobs a hundred fifty years ago or a hundred years ago, and then they stayed and today really there's no reason for these towns to exist.
They're far away from any type of jobs or resources except for coal so they're heavily subsidized by the rest of the country in order to facilitate their existence, more on that in just a minute.
We say that it would ultimately be best for these people to just tear off the bandaid and make them leave.
It's true that people may not want to leave their communities but it's also not for them to stay and continue to do the same things that they're doing right now.
We need these people to move to cities or to other states where there are jobs and start contributing to society rather than just continuing to mine coal that's ultimately detrimental even when it's able to be sold.
So that's the main reason why we're okay with getting rid of these communities and I think that there's much to be admired about appalachian culture but many parts of appalachia such as in north carolina would still exist so it's not like we're getting rid of these groups entirely just forcing them to move around within that region.
And economic forces are already doing this so we think that ultimately we would just be accelerating a natural process in order to avoid some of the harms being dragged out over the long term.
And our last point is that it's necessary to end subsidies for coal.
When, for instance, we make it possible for coal towns to exist via massive amounts of welfare spending we're effectively subsidizing the coal industry that doesn't pay for what it actually does to communities.
This is money that isn't being spent on other more serious concerns.
Rather than propping up coal mining, we should be focused for instance on developing alternative energy or developing alternative ways for people to support themselves once coal goes away.
And there's a direct trade off here.
Government money is fungible and the amount of federal tax dollars that can go to states like west virginia is ultimately very limited.
So we think it's important that that money be spent to help people rather than to help coal mining companies.
These companies have known for decades that what they were doing was killing the earth and killing innocent people and they don't care, they don't deserve our help or our sympathy.
The people who live there do but there are better ways to spend this money to help them.
So for all of these reasons, we should abandon coal mining.
Thank you.