We should not introduce universal health care.
I'd just like to say that, before I get into my point, sam takes a really rosy view of what the introduction of universal health care would look like.
I think that given that the status quo in the united states is extremely corrupt, is extremely profit-seeking, and that the people who are experts on health care are corrupt and are greedy, that it's unlikely that the implementation of universal health care in this country will go the same way that it did for britain in the nineteen forties.
There's just no reason to assume that is true, and the other side of this debate needs to explain why the implementation here would be good, not just that britain has a better healthcare system than the united states.
So with that in mind, our first point is about why corruption would be baked into the system.
Imagine that you're setting up a national healthcare system in the united states right now.
Who do you hire to administer that system?
Probably healthcare administrators since the US has thousands of these people who know how to run hospitals, run billing, and all of these other things.
But where do those people work right now?
Well, they work in for-profit or, on paper, nonprofit, but actually profit-seeking private health insurance companies or private hospital groups.
So, in other words, the only people who know how to run this system would be the people who benefit from the status quo system.
So it seems very likely that they would set up the new system to work similarly to how the system works right now, and I think that this is where a lot of problems start to emerge.
For instance, right now it's very common for insurance companies to overbill hospitals, hoping that the hospital will pay a fraction of what they bill them that's sufficient for the insurance company to make money.
I think it's likely that you'll see similarly adversative relationships between the national healthcare program and hospitals in a world where the same administrators on both sides are making the decisions.
The other side doesn't solve any of the problems of this debate, they just kind of push them off.
Ultimately, the corruption that's endemic to the system, such as overbilling, such as charging three hundred dollars for an advil, is going to continue, because the same people who are going to making the decisions are the only ones who know how to run a healthcare system and therefore, we think it's very unlikely that the new system will actually save any money.
But our next argument is that this isn't a panacea for all of america's healthcare woes.
One of the biggest problems that americans face in terms of accessing health care is cost.
The other team tells you that cost will go down, presumably because of things like collective bargaining and having one major purchaser to drive down costs overall.
But this isn't necessarily true because of who's going to be doing the bargaining.
Does it seem likely to you that republican congresspeople are going to let the national healthcare company bargain against private contractors in order to reduce their profit as much as possible so that it can save money?
No, of course not.
They're going to treat it like the military, that is to say, a huge cash cow.
Congress will order this public healthcare company to overpay for almost everything, the same way that medicare and medicaid do, so that their private contractor buddies can make more money.
Then these contractors will go to congress and lobby them and give them money, and everyone will get very rich while the american people continue to pay too much.
The cultural problems that the US has that make health care very expensive simply won't go away.
Whereas the health care system that was set up after world war two in britain was based on a culture of sacrifice that grew up during the war, during rationing, there's no such culture right now.
Everyone is just in it to make a buck, so nothing's going to change.
So the high cost that mean that poor people can't actually afford health care in the status quo won't go down if we introduce universal health care in the united states.
Instead, they'll just continue to go up, and congress will continue to get rich at our expense.
Thank you.