We should abandon social media1.
By this, we mean that we think that society should move away from using websites like twitter, facebook, and reddit, and back to more traditional forms of communication and sharing information.
Three arguments for why this is the case.
First, we think that social media, although it claims to bring people together, actually leads to alienation of people.
Why is this so?
So, on social media, you see a carefully curated version of a person's life, and we think that ultimately this doesn't reflect any bearing in reality.
For instance, you say you're just graduating from college, and you see that your friend is going on a vacation to hong kong, and your other friend has just gotten a new job, and your cousin is getting married, ultimately we think it's quite likely that you're going to compare ordinary moments in your life to the highlights in other people's lives.
We think that this leads to people feeling depressed, and dissatisfied, with their own experiences, even if they're actually doing okay, because people don't share average moments on facebook or instagram, they only share the highlights.
So, we think that ultimately social media makes its users unhappy.
Our second argument for why it should be abandoned, and perhaps the most important, is the loss of privacy and the implications thereof.
So, realize that organizations like facebook collect huge amounts of data every year, and then sell it to various different purchasers.
In other words, if you're not the buyer, you're the product.
Things like facebook are free, because they sell your data to other companies.
Why does this matter?
First of all, we think that people's privacy is being undermined without their understanding of what's going on.
People don't realize that facebook is selling their data to other companies, which then use it to influence them into purchasing things they don't want or need, or otherwise making them do things that they wouldn't like to do.
But aside from that, we also think that it undermines other people's freedoms and privacy, besides the person making the posts.
For instance, think about how many post you've seen of your friends' children.
It's quite likely that those children are going to grow up one day, and all of those photos and videos of them doing things that are maybe cute as a baby, but also embarrassing, will still be online.
At that point, we think it's quite likely that these people's right to privacy is being violated, without their consent, because of social media.
But on top of that, we tell you that governments are able to take advantage of this information in a tremendously powerful way.
We see, for instance, that in many repressive regimes around the world, they either ban western social media, and set up copies of it that collect all the information for them, or pressure companies like google into giving personal information about who is reading what books, who's talking to whom, to the government, and in this way they're able to track movements, and go after dissidents, and this doesn't even have to be something like the PRC rounding up people who are against the communist party, it can be something, like in the united states, government collecting meta data from facebook to determine people who are at risk of joining certain organizations, and then targeting them unfairly with things like the no fly list.
Our third argument, for why we should abandon social media, is about how it leads to greater radicalism, and otherwise harmful effects on young people.
We see that things like twitter had been tremendously important for terrorist groups to recruit new members, especially in the west.
Without twitter and social media, it seems very unlikely that there would have been an isis related killing in san bernardino california, for instance.
We tell you that, because social media creates echo chambers, where people only see the content they want to see, it's a sort of curated garden of content, this means that people don't ever actually confront the shortcomings of ideologies and ideas, that appeal to them on a surface level.
Movements like the alt right are completely dependent on this echo chamber to radicalize young people, who don't have the breadth of knowledge, or scope of view, to see what's going on.
So we think that it should be abandoned as well, because of its role in radicalizing people.
For these reasons, we should abandon social media.
Thank you.