We should not introduce year-round schooling.
Sam essentially tries to argue for you that children need to go to school later in the day and that they could probably go to school more often but none of this actually proves the motion.
So I think that my side of the debate is going to win because I'm going to actually negate the motion in a way that the other side hasn't proposed it properly.
So first, why does sam argue for more school and a later school day?
Well probably because those are just common sense reforms.
Students in japan go to school for about two hundred and forty days a year while most american children go for a hundred and eighty days.
So we shouldn't be that surprised if japanese students learn more in school just because they're there thirty three percent more than american students are.
This is a common sense reform but doesn't require a year-round school.
After all, in many countries like france, students have one month off for the summer rather than three and a half months off like most americans do but they still have that summer vacation.
I think that this debate needs to be a comparison between a type of schooling were students never have month-long breaks or multi-monthlong breaks and instead have like two weeks breaks versus a model of schooling were students do have that kind of a long break in the summer in addition to other breaks during the school year.
So we don't think that this is necessarily just united states versus japan.
We think we can also look at other countries with shorter summer breaks like france.
So our second argument then is that there needs to be time for children to have leisure and to be kids.
Summer vacation is an important time for children and their development.
After all, school isn't the only way that we socialize children into being good citizens.
We also need to let them spend time in nature and with their families in order to develop into good citizens.
How does summer vacation facilitate this?
First of all, it gives children large amounts of unstructured time in which they can learn how to socialize, how to use their time, in which they spend more time with their families, etcetera.
I'm sure sam will point out that for many working class families parents have to work during the day so their kids aren't around them but the fact remains that if students don't have to study at night they still get more quality family time and also that in many countries like france or like spain, parents also get more time off work in the summer when they can bond with their children.
But aside from this I'd like to point out that even if children are spending a lot of their time in daycare or just hanging out around the neighborhood, they're still learning how to be good citizens.
They're playing with their friends and learning social norms.
If they live in an urban area that they're probably interacting a lot with their neighbors and with older people in their neighborhood and learning more about the community that way.
Once they get to be a certain age they might pick up a part-time job and learn about hard work and the value of being a good employee.
So I think that summer is a time when students learn a lot of valuable things.
I mention nature earlier, it's not a coincidence that most people who live in cities have fond memories of going to summer camp out in the country and this has to be done in the summer because there's no time when the weather is permitting during the rest of the year.
So I think it's clear that there is a lot to be learned that makes students into good citizens when we have a summer vacation and the last thing that I'd say is just some rebuttal to what sam says about provision of welfare.
There's no reason that we can't insure everyone has a good meal even if they're not in school and even if students went year-round we'd still have to worry about them having a hot lunch every day on saturday and sunday.
We think that programs that, for instance, have students go to church or school-run summer camps for students from a working class background can ensure that students still get a hot meal during the day during the summer.
So I don't think that this is some like unavoidable problem that just makes summer vacation impossible.
For all of these reasons, we should not introduce year-round schooling.
Thank you.