Abstinence-only sex education should not be mandatory.
What we mean to say by this is that students should not be required to complete this abstinence-only sex education.
So we have a couple of arguments for our side.
Before I get into them, I'd just like to point out that the other team in this debate has to prove that abstinence-only sex education is not only preferable to other forms of sex education but that students should be required to go through it without an opt out since it's mandatory.
That said, our first argument is that this undermines choice.
Right now many schools in the US and other liberal democracies offer tear to sex education.
What I mean by this is that students learn concepts in a sort of logical progression.
Maybe when they're eleven they learn about going through puberty, and when they're twelve they learn about the basics of sex between men and women, and when they're thirteen they learned about sex between gay people, and they learn about how to use condoms and things like that, and when they're fourteen they learn about birth control.
You can imagine what I mean and I'm sure that this is different in every jurisdiction in the world but the point is that people progress in some way and they have sex education over the course of years, not all at once I would hope.
So what this means is that if you have sort of progressive sort of sex education, parents have a lot of choice about what they want their children to learn.
If you want your children to learn about the changes in their and their peers bodies during puberty, then you can let them go to those classes and not go to classes about putting a condom on a banana say.
If you want your students to go through all of the sex ed and learn about HIV and everything like that then that's your right as well as a parent.
Ultimately, when you require everyone to go through sex ed that's abstinence-only you take away this choice.
Parents can no longer choose the content of their child's sex ed class because now it's all going to be taught from this one point of view and what's more it projects a certain cultural norm on to people right?
If I'm a parent and I'm not a christian and I don't care about traditional cultural values, there's no reason that I should have to have my child subjected to them.
But these abstinence-only sex ed classes basically are forcing majority religious norms on to everybody.
Where I grew up most people were christians so our sex ed class was taught by a christian and it was abstinence-only and it followed christian values.
But if you're a parent who isn't a christian, there's no reason why you should have to raise your child to uphold those values.
We think this undermines choice for parents and that it's unfair to some families to only offer abstinence-only sex education.
But our next point is that it's really harmful to students to only offer abstinence-only sex education.
The first reason is that teen pregnancy goes way up when you only offer abstinence-only sex education because it doesn't work.
Teens are going to have sex no matter what you do.
Their hormones and their lack of good judgment is always going to win out over some forty-five-year-old gym coach telling them that they shouldn't have sex until they're married.
We can see that this is true from data coming out of the united states.
In areas that have abstinence-only sex education, the rate of teen pregnancy is much higher than it is in areas with comprehensive sex education even though presumably young people are having sex everywhere at similar rates.
So what this means is that you're doing a huge disservice to teens especially to young girls when you don't teach them about their options when it comes to sex.
They're more likely to get pregnant as a result and what that means is that they're less likely to go to university, less likely to get a good job, and more likely to get tied down by a child when they're simply too young to be a parent.
On our side we don't want kids having kids so we oppose abstinence-only sex education.
Thank you.