We should continue fluoridating public water.
Three arguments for this.
The first is about why putting fluoride in the water is a public good.
So recognize that tooth decay is a very serious problem in almost every country in the world because there's nothing that can be done to remedy it.
People have one set of teeth for their adult life and unfortunately the high sugar, high acidity diets that most of us consume in today's world are pretty bad for your teeth.
So it's essential that something is done to ensure that people don't have dental problems later in life.
Water fluoridation is so cheap it's almost free.
There are no proven side effects, despite billions of dollars spent in europe and america researching this, so I'm just going to throw out what will said earlier about the fact that some papers exist means this is unlikely to be safe.
The FDA and comparable groups in europe have done lots and lots of tests and found that water fluoridation is actually a net health good, that there's no real risk to it.
So we think that ultimately this is safe and that it has clear proven benefits to preserving your teeth later in life.
At that point in the same way that we're okay with putting up guardrails on highways even though they might have some marginal cost, because they clearly save people's lives we do this thing.
Look, maybe water fluoridation doesn't save anyone's life, but it obviously improves their quality of life in the long term.
Not everyone can afford to have a dentist fluoridate their teeth, not everyone is going to be able to purchase these packets, but everyone drinks the tap water so we think that ultimately it's important that everyone has access to fluoride in order to preserve their own teeth for later in life.
Our second argument is about why we think that it's okay for the government to paternalize and to put fluoride into the water.
Two reasons.
The first is that there's a compelling state interest.
In most countries, although not my own, the government pays for people's dental health.
So in places like britain maybe you have a co pay but ultimately if you're low income or going through a difficult time in terms of your job, the state will help you to pay for dentistry.
What that means is that there's a clear state interest in minimizing the cost of people's visits to the dentist.
Because fluoridation reduces the rate of cavities which are going to be the most expensive thing to have people get taken care of at the dentist, we tell you that ultimately there's a compelling state interest to put fluoride in the water.
A couple of cents up front can save thousands of dollars later on root canals and other dental surgeries.
We think that this compelling state interest is enough of a reason to paternalize.
Especially because money for health is fungible.
Any money that's spent on giving, you know, somebody who has a cavity a new set of teeth, could have been spent on helping a child with some sort of congenital illness.
Ultimately we think it's important that we use our money as effectively as possible, that the state is frugal, and fluoridation is certainly that.
And the second reason we think you can paternalize is because of the third party harms of not doing so.
It may be true that adults can make a choice about whether or not to put fluoride in their water, but children really can't.
They can only drink the water that they're given.
At that point we think that children who can't choose to consent into this would be doing a lot of damage to their teeth and not rectifying it by using fluoride and ultimately they would suffer in the long term.
We think the state needs to intervene to protect them.
The third reason we think that we should put fluoride in the water is that it's not an undue burden on anyone.
Will tries to tell you that it's unrealistic to ask people who don't want fluoride to drink bottled water.
But I think it's an undue burden to ask everybody who wants healthy teeth to go out and buy fluoride so that a couple of hippies don't have to have fluoride in their water.
This cuts both ways.
We think that at the end of the day, bottled water, in the US at least, is so cheap it's almost free if you buy it in bulk.
At that point we don't think it's an undue burden that the tiny minority of people who don't want fluoride have to spend a few dollars every week on water.
So at the end of the day we think it's clear that the state should continue to fluoridate water.
Thank you.