We should increase the use of background checks.
On our side, we would advocate for first of all allowing more private businesses to have access to background checks and secondly for these to be a more normal part of people's lives.
That might mean creating databases that are easier to access and also changing the culture such that people are more comfortable with asking for and allowing background checks.
We have a few arguments on our side for why we think this would be a good idea.
The first is that this would make it easier to uphold the law.
Right now many people are able to get into positions or purchase things that they shouldn't be allowed to because there isn't a culture of asking for background checks.
As a good example of this, many times reporters in the united states have been able to go into a gun shop and turn in information that should have led to a failed background check and then they were just sold the gun and allowed to leave because the companies didn't actually run the background check, they thought it was sufficient to just talk to the person.
But obviously even if you think that you're the best judge of character in the world sometimes there's just information that you don't have access to.
This is why background checks exist.
So it's important that we increase the use of them so that existing laws are enforceable and just for another example, we think that for instance youth athletics coaches should probably have background checks run so that we can be sure that people with a history of abusing youth aren't being put into positions of authority and this is another instance when oftentimes people rely on their perception of someone's character rather than a background check which may be biased because of race or religion or may just be inaccurate and lead to youth being put at risk.
So we think there's a clear need to implement more background checks in order to uphold existing laws and protect people at risk.
I think, and this leads nicely into our second point, that this is especially important for those working with youth.
Because children and teens aren't able to watch out for their own interest, we think it's very important that employers and their parents watch out for their interests.
So that means we think that everyone who works with young people, anyone who works in a school whether that be as faculty or staff, anyone who's involved in youth activities or community activities should probably be subject to background checks so that we can be sure that people with a history of mistreating youth aren't allowed around them.
We think that this could make a serious step towards ending child sexual abuse which is a huge problem that plagues our society.
And I invite you to imagine that if the church had done this for the last forty years, many of the sex scandals that have rocked the church in that time would have been able to be avoided because they could have not put these priests in positions of power over children in the first place.
And the last thing that we'd like to talk about is that more information always leads to better decision making.
Even if sometimes someone is a border case or the situation is gray, we think it's always better for decision makers to have more information rather than less as they try to ascertain whether someone should be hired for a certain job or whether someone should be allowed to volunteer for a particular role.
Some people might say that people change over time but we think that given that this is sometimes the case maybe we should just allow people to have their record expunged if they can prove that they've really changed rather than ignore the fact that a certain record exists or rely on people's judgment of someone's character which is so often flawed.
So for all of these reasons, we should increase the use of background checks in order to uphold the law, in order to protect the youth and because it'll lead to better decision making in the long run.
Thank you.