We should not increase the amount of international volunteering.
In fact, I'm going to argue that international volunteering is a bad thing in and of itself and that we ought try to decrease it.
But before I do, a couple of observations about this debate.
First, we're not talking about highly-trained government professionals going into a region.
We're fine with having the US navy go and help small island countries after hurricanes, and we're fine with the cuban government sending doctors to africa in order to help people in the ebola crisis.
We think that we're talking about private organizations, especially ones like the peace corps that tim mentioned, where most of the volunteers are not professionals.
They're just ordinary men and women who have too much time and money for their own good.
So with that in mind, our first argument about why we should not increase international volunteering is about how this undermines local workers.
So, let's think about a traditional american mission trip to mexico, let's say.
A lot of these trips go down and build houses for people or build infrastructure for people.
So the workers go down from america, and they work for free and build a house for someone in a village.
What does that do for a local person who has a construction company?
There's no way that he can compete with these international volunteers so this undermines his business.
And now, he's not able to offer the service that he needs to offer in order to provide for his family.
So you undercut the ability of a local professional to offer a service because you want people from america to feel good about themselves when they offer it to someone for free.
An objector might say, " , but some of these people can't afford that service. "
But ultimately, if you want this community to improve, you should want that local builder to start hiring more workers, not to have him go out of business.
That's the surest way to ensure that people can actually afford houses in the long term.
The only way to get sustainable long-term change is to promote development, and that means helping local business owners, not undermining them with free labor from the US.
And what's more, since these tourists are generally just random people, they don't have any skills.
So the houses or infrastructure that they build are probably not very good.
For instance, if some baptist church from massachusetts decides to go and build a well in africa, these people aren't civil engineers.
These people don't know anything about the local situation in niger or whatever country they go to, so it's unlikely that they're going to do this in the optimal way.
So even if they bring in some resources, they're likely to allocate them poorly which, again, harms local workers who probably could have: a, done a better job, and b, also contributed to development, if they had been allowed to take on this job themselves.
We think that it would be better to encourage governments to invest in development rather than to let a bunch of american teenagers get into better schools by going to do mission trips in developing countries.
And our second argument is related but different.
It's about false solvency.
We think that, ultimately, people think that they're doing something good when they go and volunteer.
That's why people go and volunteer.
But actually, as I've already argued, you oftentimes do more harm than good, and it's unlikely that you create any meaningful change.
Volunteering doesn't really do anything, which is why it's such a recent phenomenon.
It didn't really exist for people to volunteer outside their community until quite recently, and it doesn't help the people whom we volunteer for.
But, everyone thinks that they're doing something, so this reduces political will to help those people.
Many times tourists will come back from a poor country and think, " I want to do something to help those people, " and they'll lobby their government, or send money, or help, or just spend their money on goods from that country whereas these volunteers think that they've already done enough and don't really contribute to helping the country grow in the long term.
So we think that this doesn't actually access any solvency for the problems that exist.
For all these reasons, international volunteering is actually a bad thing.
Thank you.