We should not abandon the use of artificial intelligence.
So, tim set this up as a principled debate instead of a practical one and I'm happy to have that debate, because I think principally, if anything, we should put more resources into artificial intelligence and try to hasten its arrival.
So, the first thing that I'm going to talk about is how artificial intelligence is already critical to our society.
The reason why everyone in developed countries today can afford to drive or so many people is because the cost of cars has gone down relative to people's incomes.
Why is that?
Well, there are fewer people employed in cities like detroit to make cars because general motors and ford and other companies were early adopters of robotics.
We think that consumer goods, in general, around the world are already being produced by a lot of AI and that this has driven down costs and ultimately has been really good for consumers.
Yes, it's displaced some people from working, but we're ultimately willing to accept that harm given the massive benefits that it's had in terms of opening up the ability to consume goods to low-income people.
But moreover, it's also led to a huge increase in safety.
For instance, the paris metro recently introduced lines of subway trains that are driven entirely by AI, and they've seen a drastic reduction in fatalities.
Similarly, we think that things like traffic controllers, that are done automatically rather than by people, to control traffic lights have done a lot to allow people to drive more safely.
So this is already an important part of our society and if we didn't use it, we would live in a more expensive, more dangerous world, and I don't think that anyone wants that.
But now I want, in my second point, to encourage you to think bigger, to imagine how we get to the world that we want to live in, and I encourage you to think of star trek here.
In the star trek universe, AI is extremely advanced.
People are able to pursue their passions and things that they genuinely enjoy, such as advancing human knowledge, and exploration, and art, and jean-luc picard's brother owns a vineyard, and all these other things, largely because of AI.
In their world, it's very cheap to produce anything because AI is so much more effective than people and, in addition, people don't have to do the kind of drudge work that degrades many workers right now.
This frees up everyone to have a kind of standard of living that's only available to very wealthy people right now.
In the status quo, people are treated as a commodity for their labor.
Ultimately, they are sold and traded to different companies that employ them, and this is tremendously dehumanizing.
It prevents them from spending time with their families and from pursuing things that would help them self-actualize.
It's bad for society and it's bad for individuals, and AI is the solution to this problem that was first identified probably three hundred years ago.
With the development of AI, people won't have to go to work nine to five every day because computers will do most of the production in society.
It's not just factory jobs that are going to go away.
Computers are going to do discovery for law courts and replace lawyers.
Computers are going to diagnose people and minimize the number of doctors that we need.
So, ultimately, in order to live in a world where people can pursue their passions and spend time with the people they care about, rather than spend ten to twelve hours a day on work, we need to have AI developed further.
This is absolutely critical to creating a world in which everyone is allowed to have a dignified life.
And you may think, " oh, well, things aren't so bad right now. "
And if you're listening to this in the US or britain or some other countries, that's probably true.
But think about the effect this has on people in a country like bangladesh, where right now most people work in absolutely abhorent conditions because it's the only way to provide for their families.
If textile production, which right now is done by people in near slavery conditions, if textile production were done by machines, then these people would have many of the same opportunities than you and I do, because the wealth would still exist without exploiting other people.
So for these reasons, we should absolutely not abandon the use of AI.
Thank you.