We should not introduce a flat tax rate.
We have a few arguments for our side today, the first and most important is that a flat tax is fundamentally unfair.
It treats lower class people as though they were millionaires and small businesses as though they were fortune five hundred companies even though these groups are vastly different.
Let's look at this from the perspective of an individual.
If you are a person who works and makes twenty thousand euros a year, every euro that you have is pretty valuable to you because you have to pay things like your rent and buy food with almost every euro that you have and maybe if you're lucky you save some at the end of the day whereas if you make five hundred thousand euros a year then every euro is much less valuable to you because you can pay your rent and buy food with your first fifty or sixty thousand euros and after that most of your money either goes towards luxuries or savings or investments.
Because luxury, savings, and investments are a lower order concern than something like food we think that it's obvious that the later euros that you earn are less valuable than the earlier euros that you earn therefore these things shouldn't be taxed in the same way.
Why?
A tax should be based on the value that something has but the value of every euro is not the same to every person.
If this is the difference between eating or starving then obviously this euro is worth a lot more to you than if it's the difference between driving a BMW and aston martin therefore these things should not be taxed.
The idea is called marginal value.
It's the idea that if you have more of something the value of gaining another of that thing is less to you than if you have fewer of it.
So having two apples every apple means more to you than if you have four hundred thousand apples and you gain an additional apple.
This is pretty straightforward and this is the justification for having progressive taxation based on one's income or wealth.
Our second argument is that a flat tax would actually lead to lower receipts in terms of tax revenue.
The reason why we have taxes is to raise money to run the state.
It's not punitive, it's not to hurt people, it's because the government has certain programs and we have to fund them somehow.
Receipts would likely go down though because obviously right now very wealthy people disproportionately pay a huge amount of the taxes that we take in compared to very poor people.
I think in the US about forty percent of people don't pay any income tax for instance.
The reason why receipts would go down is that you can't set this rate too high or the very poor would just not be able to buy food or house themselves so there's a cap at the bottom in terms of how high the rate can be.
But that means that the very wealthy you're going to pay significantly less in tax.
It will not even out because if you try to make the revenues even out you will be taxing low income people so much that they couldn't pay for their rent or provide for their families.
So receipts are necessarily going to go down and that means that any government service that you think is good, whether it be highways or welfare or the military, is going to go away if you have a flat tax.
And our last point is that a flat tax is really unflexible.
Let's imagine you have a recession.
Right now you could change tax rates to reflect peoples' situation during that recession.
In a world where you have a flat tax the tax just stays where it is.
The government cannot respond to changing policies with new tax policy in a world with a flat tax.
So for instance if we wanted to punitively tax something we wouldn't be able to do that.
That's pretty bad government policy but we think that it is a tool in our toolbox, but more importantly we can't do things like have tax credits to help people during a recession because we just have this flat tax and that's a good government policy that we would want to use during a recession.
So for all of these reasons, we should not have a flat tax.
Thank you.