We should increase the use of personalized medicine.
So what we mean by personalize medicine is medicine that groups people based on their genetic characteristics and then uses those genetic characteristics to predict problems that an individual might have or special needs or treatments that they might need to seek out in the future.
We have a few reasons why we think that we should pursue more personalized medicine even if it's somewhat more expensive initially.
Our first argument is that this will greatly increase our understanding of human genetics.
Right now genetics is often approached to something that is useful in itself but not connected as much to the rest of medicine.
If we pursued this personalize medicine then we would first of all have much more information available because we'd have more data about people's genetics, but secondly, because we'd be looking for more connections between different parallel parts of people's genetic code.
This means that we'd be much more likely to actually find genetic causes for diseases that we might not fully understand right now and to predict the risks that people might have as they move forward in life much better than we're able to right now.
Ultimately, this would probably increase our understanding of genetics both from a scientific perspective, but also allow us to treat new diseases in the future using this information that we'd be gathering in the present.
Our second argument is that this would just lead to better medical outcomes.
Right now we tend to assume that everyone is genetically healthy, but this just simply isn't true.
Many people do have genetic predispositions to certain illnesses that mean that traditional treatments are not going to be effective.
In the same way that it's important that we don't understand that everyone has a particular problem or does not have a particular problem, it's often unclear how these problems arise and we can gain a better understanding of that from this personalized medicine.
But there are many illnesses that we can't even identify right now.
There are probably millions of people in the world who are diagnosed with general pain disorder or fibromyalgia or other illnesses that are kind of a catchall who in fact have a genetic disorder that we could probably treat with technology like crisper in the future.
So we're likely to get much better outcomes for patients in our world and this is very important because the purpose of medicine is ultimately to increase people's quality of life and to reduce suffering and the only way that we can do that is to increase our understanding and our knowledge but also to focus the technology that we have on treating patients.
Right now we've invested billions of dollars of research capital into genetics and it's time to start using that money to directly help patients rather than just work on basic science.
And our final argument is that ultimately this is going to lead to more preventative medicine which will drive down costs overall.
Why is this true?
If we can identify that people have a genetic predisposition to a particular illness that we can start working to mitigate that illness long in advance.
This has many advantages namely that people are going to suffer less but also that it's going to be less costly to treat them.
If you catch a disease early on, then it's easier to prevent it from ever getting really serious so that people don't have to spend lots of time in the hospital or get a caretaker or take expensive drugs because we can change their lifestyle or do other things to ensure that ultimately they're not at risk in this way.
This is going to tremendously drive down health care costs because preventive medicine is almost always cheaper than reactive medicine.
This is important for a few reasons.
Firstly, because government funds are fungible.
So if we save money by using preventative medicine, we can spend more money on treating other illnesses but also because there's a limited ability to treat certain people right now simply because of a lack of funds.
So many people could receive treatments that were previously too expensive if we were able to allocate money that would have gone to other people to them instead.
For all these reasons, we should increase the use of personal medicine.
Thank you.