We should increase reforestation.
By this, we mean that we should dramatically increase the amount of resources that are put into existing reforestation efforts, and in places where reforestation isn't taking place but that were historically forested, we would introduce those sorts of efforts.
We have three arguments for our side.
The first is about carbon capture.
The idea behind this is, essentially, that there is too much carbon in the atmosphere right now, represented by CO two, and that one of the best ways to remove that carbon from the atmosphere is to put it into trees.
As we all know, one of the ways that plants grow is to draw carbon out of the atmosphere.
So if we plant hundreds of acres of trees, we're also taking a small amount of carbon out of the atmosphere.
One reason for the increased amount of carbon in the atmosphere is that people have been burning the earth's carbon stores.
Things like oil, and coal, and rainforest have historically been where the earth has put all of its excess carbon, which is why we have relatively low carbon levels right now.
One way that we could take advantage of the earth's ability to store carbon would be to sequester it in the form of trees.
We can't create new oil.
We can't create new coal, at least not efficiently.
So the closest thing we can do to return the earth to its state before the industrial revolution would be to plant huge forests and prevent people from burning them again in the future so that as much carbon as possible gets sequestered back in these forest, out of the atmosphere.
Now, of course, this isn't a fix-all solution for climate change, but it is a bandaid while we transition to greener technology, so we think it's something that's absolutely worthwhile.
Our second argument is about the value of reforestation from an aesthetic and environmental perspective.
So, essentially, what we mean is that, first of all, if you think about reforestation in urban areas, which is often overlooked, planting large amounts of trees in any open available space in a city like los angeles, such as in the median, and along sides of roads, and in abandoned lots and the like, first of all, creates an city environment that's more welcoming.
People just feel better when they have this greenery around, and that's why people find certain cities so beautiful, because there's lots of trees.
But, moreover, it also reduces the heat in that city.
There is an effect called an urban heat island where lots of pavement in big cities means the temperatures are hotter, which means air quality is worse, which hurts people with asthma, but if we plant lots of trees, you get more shade, and trees also absorb some of that ambient heat, so this is less of a problem.
And in rural areas, when you recreate these areas, first of all, it's likely that if an area was once forested and you plant lots of trees of the right species that you'll be able to reintroduce species that have gone extinct in an area or that have become more rare, so that you can create more habitats for indigenous wildlife, and we think that's something that's really good as well.
Effectively, this isn't just about planting more trees, it's about creating a space in which people feel more comfortable and in which the types of environment that were destroyed to make room for agriculture or for cities can be restored, so that we can share the earth more responsibly with other species.
And our final argument is about the effect that this has on jobs.
Some people might think that this would actually hurt jobs in agriculture, but we would argue that the jobs that are created by reforestation and forest management efforts will actually be good for an environment or for an area in the long term.
We think that you can bring in lots of jobs in forest management and potentially also by harvesting trees, by chopping some of them down, and then planting new ones as many areas do, you can create jobs in the lumber industry as well.
So for all of these reasons, we should increase reforestation.
Thank you.