We should increase government regulation.
So, essentially what we mean is that we think that more areas of society should be regulated and that existing regulation should be redone in order to ensure that there are fair and equal standards for different businesses in different industries.
Our first argument for why we need to increase government regulation is about the efficiency of having state-mandated standards.
A really good example of this would be the way that highways work in the united states.
Highways are built by contractors, not by the state directly, but the standards for those highways, whether they be interstate highways or local highways, are set by the government so that every contractor has to produce the same product.
What this means is that no contractor can get away with offering up a shoddier product or it won't meet the standard and they won't be able to be paid.
If you contrast this with the way that something like light rail is being built in the united states, where there is no one standard and every city ask contractors to submit bids and then the eventual product doesn't actually function the way it's intended to, then you can see how having one overall standard is really good.
In the same way, the standards that we set for drugs in the US, or the european union, or israel and other developed countries ensure that people know that they're getting the same product, even if they get, say, a generic brand or an off -brand version of that product.
They know that it'll do the same thing and have the same effects, even if they pay less money for it.
This is crucial.
And ultimately, we think that the biggest impact of having common standards is consumer confidence in goods.
People know that they can trust something if it's built or created to a certain standard.
They feel safe purchasing and don't feel like they need to import something from a country with better standards, as you'll see many people in developing countries do when they purchase goods from the US or the european union.
And, similarly, they feel more comfortable buying things that they might otherwise have made themselves, because they know that food, for instance, is going to be safe to consume because it's produced to a certain standard.
We think that current government regulation is often balkanized such that different industries are treated differently and have a lot of favoritism shown to some industries.
We would like to see more of an even playing field for different businesses by normalizing the levels of regulation across different industries.
Our second argument is ultimately that we think that this is essential to promote the environment and its well-being in the long term.
If we don't increase environmental regulations, then it's clear that there's going to be no way to stop climate change.
Efforts to get private corporations to do the right thing and reduce their own emissions will never work because everyone has an incentive to pollute as much as possible, since the cost ultimately fall on the public while the profits remain with the corporation polluting.
Only by drastically increasing the regulations surrounding pollution and environmental damage can we change the status quo and lead to a world in which climate change will be reduced.
Climate change is inevitable right now, unfortunately, but we can reduce the harms for future people and even for current people in the long term if we drastically increase environmental regulations.
This might mean implementing cap and trade for carbon emissions within your country, banning certain industrial processes, or requiring that companies spend a certain amount of money to plant trees, for instance.
We think that, ultimately, this is essential for the well-being of any country since, in the long term, climate change will probably cause many governments to break down.
For instance, in the united states, new york city is going to be underwater in a hundred and twenty years if we don't do anything.
This would likely cause anarchy in the country so it's obvious that from a long term perspective, just considering self-preservation, we need to drastically increase regulation.
Thank you.