Humanitarian aid should be subsidized.
On our side, we are going to argue that governments should provide some sort of tax credit or matching effect when people donate money to humanitarian causes.
We think that, for instance, giving money to groups like doctors without borders might constitute something that would be eligible for this sort of matching.
We have two main arguments for our side this afternoon.
The first is that this would encourage people to give more.
We can see that if you are able to do more good when you give money, that people would be willing to give more money.
This is the same principle that underlines things like four oh one k matching, which is a practice whereby businesses match the amount that their employees donate to their retirement fund.
We see businesses do this because they want to encourage people to save more, and they know that if people are getting two dollars for every one that they invest, that they'll increase their saving.
Similarly, if governments were to subsidize donations to groups like doctors without borders, we think that people would be much more willing to donate, because they would see that for every dollar that they donate, they're actually doing a dollar twenty five worth of good or whatever percentage the government would contribute.
So why is it a good thing to encourage giving?
The most obvious reason is that it helps the people who are the recipients of this aid.
We see that oftentimes groups like doctors without borders struggle to raise funds and, in particular, to raise funds during off-peak times, so away from the holidays.
We think that if you had this type of subsidy from the government, people would be more likely to give and to give more often.
So, therefore, groups like doctors without borders would be able to do more good for people whom they're able to help, such as those who live in war zones and aren't able to get medical treatment without help from these groups.
Our second main argument is that this reduces the need for government aid.
And I think this is very important for this debate because it explains why governments, uniquely, ought be the group to do this, as opposed to just why this aid is good, which I think everyone accepts.
Right now, governments spend varying amounts of money on foreign aid.
The united states and some european countries donate huge amounts of money to developing economies every year in order to promote development or fight against diseases like HIV.
This is not necessarily the largest buy line or budget item for these countries but, oftentimes, it's very unpopular with their people.
Many voters resent the idea that their governments are doing something to help people abroad who don't pay taxes into the system.
Now, obviously, we support helping people in need, but we think that by matching private donations, you'll make this more appealing to conservatives who oppose this type of giving.
Most conservatives support the idea of personal charity and are really opposed to government aid for certain reasons.
We think that, ultimately, if you can reframe the donations as personal giving and incentivizing and rewarding charity, rather than a government handout, that many conservatives will be supportive of even increasing the amount of foreign aid that's given.
And all this program really is is reallocating existing dollars.
You can take money away from existing programs like US aid and focus it on this type of matching, and you'll get a similar effect on the ground, while completely changing the rhetoric and the narrative surrounding this type of aid.
That's why we're going to win this debate.
It's because we can protect foreign aid from budget-cutting conservatives and maybe even increase the amount of money available for foreign aid, because we're now using a narrative, namely personal charity, that's very popular with right-wing political parties for an ends, namely foreign aid, that's very popular with left-wing political parties.
So we think that this can cross the aisle and be something everyone can support.
For all these reasons, humanitarian aid should be subsidized.
Thank you.