We should fight for quebec's independence.
On our side we believe that quebec should be independent from canada and that they should be able to manage their own affairs like any other sovereign nation.
We have two main arguments for our side.
The first is about the nineteen nineties independence referendum that took place, and the second is about the right to sovereignty.
As you may already know, in the mid nineties quebec had a referendum on independence, and it was very very very narrowly defeated.
Let's talk a little bit about why that referendum was unfair and why that means quebec should be granted their independence.
After this federal government agreed to allow the referendum, they immediately started settling new immigrants in quebec as supposed to in other provinces.
They did this because they knew that immigrants to canada obviously want to live in canada rather than in quebec and therefore that these people would vote for quebec to remain in canada as opposed to leaving.
Generally speaking, quebec doesn't get a huge percentage of canada's immigrants because it speaks french rather than english and most immigrants have been learning french or english rather to move to canada.
So most immigrants would go to ontario or british columbia.
So the canadian government try to tip the scales in every way possible by settling these people in quebec who probably wanted to live in ontario or british columbia and who would have gone there otherwise.
They also did everything in their power to ensure that all english speakers would vote to remain in canada, such as running english language media that promoted voting to remain in canada.
They basically tried to divide quebec based on language lines as opposed to letting people make their own decision based on what's best for them.
They kind of stoked up the fear of the english speaking population in order to ensure that they would get what they want.
In other words we think that the canadian government played dirty.
We think that the canadian government should have been a neutral actor and should have stayed out of it and let actors who were pro and anti secession in quebec run the campaigns rather than spending millions and millions and millions of dollars from the other provinces in order to undermine a quebec independence.
And at the end of the day, despite all of this meddling, the poll came down or the referendum came down well within the margin of error.
So we think that it's very likely that independence would have won if the federal government hadn't interfered in this way.
So because the referendum was undermined by the federal government and because it would have won otherwise, we think quebec should be granted their independence since that's what would have happened after a fair referendum.
Secondly, we think that the quebecois people have a right to sovereignty.
A general principle we support is that nations deserve to have their own states if they want one.
The quebec quebecois people are a nation.
They have a common language and culture that's distinct from the rest of canada and they have a historical homeland in which they form a substantial majority.
In the same way that after world war one and two if we saw many nation states form in europe, in the same way that we saw israel become a nation state, in the same way that catalonia is probably going to become an independent state in the future, we think that quebec should be allowed to become an independent state.
It seems clear that the interests and needs of the quebecois people are not met by the english speaking canadian government which historically has oppressed them and tried to undermine their language and culture and religion.
Because of all of this historical enmity, and because it's unlikely that the government is ever going to allow them total independence and autonomy within canada, it's clear that quebec needs to become an independent sovereign state if they're going to maintain their language and culture.
You might ask why do they need to do that and we would say they have as much right to do that as any other people including english speaking canada.
In order to preserve this right to self determination and preserve their heritage, and because they were cheated during the last referendum, we should support quebec independence.
Thank you.