We should abolish the american jobs act.
So what we mean by this is that we think the american jobs act was a poor policy that should not be implemented.
Two arguments for this.
The first one is about the opportunity costs of the american jobs act and we're going to break this down in a few different ways.
First, let's talk about the opportunity cost in terms of money.
Recognize that all federal spending is fungible, except for things like social security.
So any money spent on this jobs act could have been spent in other ways instead.
We tell you that back in twenty eleven, when this was proposed, the federal government could borrow at basically zero percent interest rates.
It was the best time ever for the american people to borrow money.
But at the same time there was a limit to how much the american people were willing to borrow to add to the deficit.
We think that that was the perfect time to invest in infrastructure.
I live in boston, the federal government originally offered to pay for a new subway line that ran very close to my house, conveniently.
Using the money that would be borrowed against the deficit.
But because of programs like the jobs act, ultimately support for infrastructure spending fell through.
We think infrastructure would have been a better investment than this jobs act for a few reasons.
One, jobs are going to come about anyway as a result of infrastructure spending.
It's not necessary to have a separate bill here.
Two, infrastructure has large returns over time.
Many of the subway lines in boston have been in use for a hundred years.
There's no reason to assume this one wouldn't have been as well.
And the same is true for many bridges and other infrastructure projects around the country.
So borrowing a bit of money now to pay for new infrastructure could have large returns for the next hundred years or even longer.
And three, we tell you that ultimately, infrastructure spending is has more political support and that people are more willing to pay for something concrete then something abstract.
So ultimately we think that because of the opportunity cost and the trade off with infrastructure spending, that the jobs act was poorly timed and not a very good use of our money.
But the second sense in which this has a huge opportunity cost, is in terms of political will.
In order for barack obama to get this policy put into place, he would have to rely on the support of democrats in congress and certain moderate republicans quite likely.
There's a limited number of times that obama can offer people favors to support his policies, especially when many of these spending for the job act would not have helped people in every constituency.
So it's less likely that we would have seen things like healthcare reform if this act had been put into place because there would have been a trade off in obama's ability to get legislators to follow his agenda.
At that point we think that there are better uses of the president's political power, things like further healthcare reforms that would actually saves lives and also save trillions of dollars in the long term on government healthcare spending.
So with that in mind, we don't think this was the best use of the political will and the ability to whip votes that the president has.
Our second major argument is about why we think that this is risky spending though.
It's true that deficits were low but at the same time this is the kind of spending that ultimately was very unpopular with republicans.
Spending on abstract ends like job creation and funding it with tax cuts that were actually smaller than the expected spending.
So what that means is we think that this would likely feed into a narrative of obama spending recklessly.
This jeopardized the ability of the president to be reelected in twenty twelve and we think also contributed to severe democratic defeats in the house and senate in two thousand ten and twenty twelve.
But moreover we think there's a greater risk of government shut down with this kind of spending.
The american government, if you didn't know, hasn't had a budget in a long time.
Instead it kind of runs based on these short term spending bills.
And people are less willing to vote for them if they think the president is spending money unwisely.
So for all these reasons we should abolish the american jobs act.
Thank you.