We should raise corporate tax.
By this we mean to say that corporations should be taxed at a higher rate and more consistently in countries around the globe.
In the status quo, many large corporations, like apple, are based in countries like ireland that have low tax rates, even though they do most of their business in the US or other EU countries with higher tax rates.
Basically, companies are moving to countries with lower tax rates in order to avoid having to pay taxes on their income.
We propose a couple of solutions to this.
Firstly, we think that corporations should be taxed on their income in your country.
So when apple does business in germany, say, they should be subject to german corporate tax rates rather than irish ones, even though apple headquarters is in ireland.
We think that this is fair because, ultimately, when apple does business in germany, they're benefiting from german infrastructure, from german laws, they're using german courts, and they're competing with other businesses operating in germany.
Since ireland doesn't contribute to that process at all, we don't think that they should be the ones taxing apple for this income, rather it should be germany, and it would hold true if it was in britain or the states or any other country as well.
Secondly, we think that one way that this could be done would be to tax infrastructure and other forms of permanent spending.
In other words, if apple creates retail spaces in germany, we can tax those, and they can't be moved elsewhere if they want to sell ipods and computers in the country.
So there's no way for them to get around this.
We think that for other businesses with less real property, we could still find ways to tax them on the investments they do create in a country, such as transferring money into and out of a given country's economy.
So now that you understand how we would do this, let's talk about why.
First of all, we tell you that these companies have a duty to the state because they reap benefits from doing business there.
Right?
If a country does business if a company does business in a country, then they're using their courts and they're benefiting from their laws, and these cost money to maintain.
So because companies benefit from the rule of law, they'd ought have to contribute to maintaining that rule of law.
So when apple sues another company in german courts, they're taking up huge amounts of the german government's time and resources, and they should have to pay something in for that.
And some people might say, " oh, well, a relatively low tax rate would account for that, " but my next point explains why the corporate tax rate should be relatively high.
We think that more of the burden of taxation should fall on corporations than individuals.
In many countries around the world, individuals pay tax rates as high as forty percent on their income.
We think that this is absurd when corporations are often paying less than fifteen percent.
There are a few reasons for this: one, corporations are treated as legal people, which means they should be subject to the same legal obligations as all other people, namely, paying taxes on their income.
Giving a preferential rate to corporations is effectively discriminating against non-corporation legal people, namely, the rest of us.
So we think that this is unfair.
But we also think that the burden of taxation should fall on those most able to pay.
This is the guiding principle behind progressive taxation which exists in basically every democracy already.
Because corporations don't have children to feed or they don't have dependents to take care of, we think that they can afford to pay much larger taxes on their profits than any individual.
And you might say, " oh, well, they have to pay their employees and pay for infrastructure, " but we're talking about profits here, what they bring in after all of those considerations.
So we don't think this would prevent them from doing business, only reduce the amount of their profits that gets funneled offshores or to wealthy executives.
For all these reasons, we should raise the corporate tax.
Thank you.