We should not abolish capital punishment.
We think that every country around the world should allow courts to sentence people to death.
We're fine with setting limitations on how that's carried out such as requiring that it be a humane in some fashion but ultimately we think it's important that criminal justice systems have some version of the death penalty.
In the US right now the death penalty is used by the federal government and some states but not all.
In the european union most countries don't allow the death penalty but some do.
Ultimately we think that the death penalty should be used everywhere in every member of federations not only in some.
So our first argument is that social morays support the death penalty.
What we mean by this is that the common law of almost every country includes the death penalty.
So although many european countries use civil law like the napoleonic code their inherited laws including the napoleonic code still allow for the death penalty.
And in common law countries like britain or canada or the states the death penalty has always been part of the common law.
The reason why this is important is because the law derives its legitimacy from people's view that the law is legitimate.
In other words there's no natural state of justice for the law.
The law is something that we do every day.
It's something that is part of our society and it needs to reflect our social morays because its legitimacy is derived from general agreement that it is legitimate.
So because traditionally we've had the death penalty and because in many countries around the world people continue to support it or at least acknowledged it is sometimes necessary we ought not abolish it.
We think that ultimately when you try to force through progressive norms by changing the legal system you undermine respect for the law because people think that it no longer reflects their values.
What's more even if you had a liberal place like boston or some european countries where people don't like the death penalty no judge is forced to give this verdict.
If a judge in say sweden doesn't want to sentence someone to die they never have to.
It can be on the books and fall out of use except as I'll say in just a minute in the most heinous of instances.
So ultimately if you oppose the death penalty you should oppose the sentences not the statute that allows it in itself.
To do so would be to undermine the law because it rests on these morays.
Our second argument is that there are times of great need when we have to implement the death penalty.
Now we would be fine with saying that mentally ill people or minors or other groups should be exempt from the death penalty or that maybe it should be reserved for certain crimes.
The problem with this debate though is that the other side has to argue that we should never allow the death penalty.
And let me give you an easy example of what it should be allowed.
I sincerely doubt that the iraqi government was in a position in two thousand four to deal with saddam hussein in any way other than the death penalty.
After saddam conducted chemical weapon attacks against his own people, invaded his neighbors and caused wars that killed millions of people, ultimately there was no way that they could hold him in prison and appear legitimate to the people who hated him so much.
The only option that the iraqi government had effectively was to kill saddam hussein.
But on the other side of this debate they wouldn't be able to do so.
Even the worst people in the world slobodan milosevic saddam hussein pick any awful war criminal or dictator that you want would have to be kept in prison for life.
And we think that that poses a real threat to the stability of states because it appears that they can't punish the most heinous evil doers if they're not able to use the death penalty.
So we think that ultimately because of social morays and because there are some compelling examples of times when it's completely necessary that we should not abolish capital punishment.
Thank you