We should abandon feminism.
By this, we don't mean to say that we should abandon the fight against the patriarchy or the women's liberation movement but rather the twentieth century trappings of feminism as such.
So our first argument is that we think that feminism divides people who have more in common than they realize right now.
In the status quo, we think that a lot of liberation movements, like feminism, like black liberation, like marxism, their followers don't see everything that they have in common because they've been put into little silos, where people think, " oh, I'm a maoist revolutionary.
I shouldn't care about feminism, " or " I'm a feminist.
I shouldn't care about ending oppressive colonial regimes in the third world, " because they don't see that all oppressed peoples are up against a common enemy, namely white men who control capital throughout the world.
And because of this division, it's basically a divide and conquer strategy for capital, which is intensely entwined with the patriarchy, the same power structures that marx talked about in eighteen sixty still control the world today and are oppressing both women and people in the third world and oppressed peoples in the developed world.
So we think that it's essential that we stop dividing the oppressed peoples of the earth and encourage them to see what they have in common, and part of that is ending this silo factor that we have right now, where everyone is in their own little group and not thinking about what they all have in common.
Now the other side's going to say, " well, what about intersectional feminism? "
But I think it's clear that this is just not going far enough, that we need to have mass movements that move across these bold twentieth century boundaries and that can encompass all people who are oppressed in order to create a better world without patriarchy, without states, without capitalism.
We can't do this right now because in many cases, feminism has been coopted by capital.
Hillary clinton is really the poster child of this.
I could just stop there.
But the fact that people think that you can be a neo-liberal who wants to murder children in yemen, like hillary clinton, and a feminist, just goes to show you the problem that we have right now, where the term has completely been coopted and a movement that claims to help people who are oppressed is actually helping, basically, white women to murder people in the third world, when it comes down to it.
The leaders of the developed world are using feminism as a tool of oppression globally, and the only way to stop that is to completely redefine how we talk about oppression.
Our second argument is that we think that the term " feminism " is trans-exclusionary.
So, I know that the other side is also gonna say, " oh, well there's trans-inclusive feminism, " but the very idea that gender discrimination is based solely on a male-female line is not really in line with our society today.
Maybe this wasn't as big a problem back in the first wave of feminism in the early twentieth century but today, when some of the most oppressed people, both in the developed and developing world, are people who are non-binary or outside of these traditional gender norms, I think it's clear that a movement that calls itself the women's liberation movement isn't really helping those people.
What's critical is that we step up to protect people who are gender minorities or who face gender discrimination, regardless of what their gender is.
And I'm not trying to make some meninist argument here.
Obviously, we're not talking about protecting men.
We're talking about making feminism into a movement that can include trans people without being just completely anachronistic and ridiculous, which is basically what you have right now with a lot of especially white, rich, supposedly trans-inclusive feminists.
And our final argument is that we think that it's important to spur intellectual development in the feminist movement.
Right now, there's a sort of feminist orthodoxy of people like bell hooks, who are great, but people haven't really moved beyond that.
We think that, for instance, the fact that the third wave of feminism has endured since the late nineteen eighties to today shows that feminism has kind of calcified and that one way to break that calcification and to encourage new ideas and new development and more radical change to help people would be to end feminism and to focus on the movement I described in my first argument.
For all of these reasons, we should abandon feminism.
Thank you.