We should prohibit slum tourism.
Slum tourism is basically when wealthy people visit a very low-income or downtrodden area in order to see what it's like there, to see the people who live there and things like that.
So this might look like american tourists visiting brazil and going into the favelas, for instance.
So with this in mind, we think that the countries where the slum tourism takes place should ban this practice.
So in our example, it would be brazil banning it, not the united states.
A few reasons why we think that this should be true: first, slum tourism is degrading to the people who live in these slums.
Realize that the people who live there don't do so by choice.
Most of these people came to the city for work or were misled about the economic opportunities they would have there, or their family has been there for a long time so they're forced to live in these conditions.
We think that it's unfair to put these people on display like zoo animals given that this is their home, given that they don't want to be in these conditions.
Ultimately, we think that it is denying these people their human dignity to allow slum tourism.
When you have people coming in to gawk, people coming in and taking photos on cameras that cost more than the people who live there make in a year, we think that this is ultimately demeaning to them.
Rather than offering help to these people, we're instead spending money on making them an object of entertainment for the international elite.
We think that, in particular, this actually undermines any sort of empathy for these people.
Recognize that the rich and powerful who are visiting don't go home and do anything to help them or at least they haven't in the past.
Instead, they go home and put their pictures on instagram and maybe take a picture of themselves giving a dollar to some needy child.
It lets these people feel good without actually increasing the amount of empathy that they feel for those living in these conditions.
If anything, it undermines sympathy, because it makes them feel like they can leave and the problem goes away.
We've often heard that the poor are a problem which is out of sight and out of mind.
But even if you go and visit for a short period of time, being able to leave undermines your ability to think about this as a permanent solution because to you, it's a temporary thing completely.
At this point, we think it's clear that government should ban slum tourism to protect the dignity of the people who live there and because it undermines the ability of people to have empathy for those who are worse off.
But secondly, we think that slum tourism should be prohibited because it harms the traditional tourist industry.
Think about what you do when you go to a slum tour.
You go you go, probably on a bus or with a guide, into a unsafe neighborhood.
You don't spend money at restaurants there, you're not staying in that area.
Ultimately, we think it's very likely that you don't participate in the traditional tourist economy, where people visit and spend lots of money on food and housing and things like that.
We think that if you prohibited slum tourism, that if people still wanted to visit these areas, they would have to partake in more traditional tourism.
So they would be staying in hotels in the area, they would be eating food in the area.
Now perhaps fewer people would do this, but at the point where more money on net is coming into the local economy, we still think that this is a good thing.
Aside from that, even if people choose to go to other areas instead, we think that they'll probably spend more money overall, because rather than paying tour or tour companies from their home country to set this up for them, they're going to be spending money at the beaches in brazil and things like that.
Lastly, we think that slum tourism is unsafe and and ultimately, has burdens for the state in that respect.
If you recall, there was tremendous concern about the brazil olympics because people were worried that the athletes would be mugged.
As a result, there was a huge amount of spending on police and gendarmes and other paramilitary groups to protect the olympic athletes.
We see something similar in place to protect tourists in these impoverished areas.
We think that this is a poor use of funds that could go to actually helping people and policing their communities rather than spending public funds to protect rich tourists.
So for these reasons, we should prohibit slum tourism.
Thank you.