We should fight for palestinian independence.
What we mean by this is that people around the world should advocate for palestine to become an independent country separate from israel.
This is often called the two-state solution.
Our model of what this would look like would be that west bank would become the new state of palestine, that the settlements in west bank would be withdrawn in the same way that the settlements in the gaza strip were withdrawn about a decade ago, and that ultimately west bank would have total sovereignty over that region.
We think that access to jerusalem might be controlled by an international body or that jerusalem might be divided similar to berlin during the cold war, although hopefully with fewer fences and soldiers.
So, our first argument is that an independent palestinian state is necessary to end conflict in the region.
When we think of the palestinian conflict, it's not just the conflict between israel and palestine, where you see rockets occasionally being shot into israel or the IDF killing palestinians.
It extends far beyond that in the region.
The support base, for instance, for hezbollah draws really heavily on palestinian people who live in displaced person camps in lebanon.
Many temporary camps that were set up in lebanon and jordan shortly after the nineteen sixty seven war still exist today, and the people who live there are still displaced people.
In fact, most of the people living in the borders of jordan are not jordanians, but rather palestinians.
So you can see the massive scope of this problem for the region.
Unrest in jordan and lebanon ultimately spills over into israel and causes more conflict in the entire region, as we can see from the war between israel and lebanon in two thousand six or seven.
Ultimately, the only way to solve these problems is to let the palestinians leave these displaced person camps and move into a permanent state proper, and the only way to do that is to create a state of palestine.
Since west bank is the area with the densest amount of palestinians, it seems likely that this should be west bank.
We think, ultimately, this is the only way to create a lasting peace in the region since attempts to integrate palestinians in israel have largely failed, and lebanon and jordan have been unwilling or unable to do so.
Our next argument is that this would be better for the palestinians.
Right now, gaza is one of the poorest cities in the world.
We think that if the people of gaza were able to move to west bank and be settled there that, ultimately, this would drastically increase their quality of life.
West bank itself is also fairly poor, but if it were an independent country rather than a protectorate of israel, we think it's likely that international investment would come in and increase the quality of living there.
Some might say that west bank would be too densely populated or that there's no way to settle this many people in west bank.
But ultimately, some parts of israel, like greater tel aviv, are much more dense than this new state of palestine would be.
So we just don't think that's a problem.
Moreover, the benefits of moving people out of displaced persons camps or moving them out of the gaza strip and into a country that's safe and that can provide them with education and infrastructure, ultimately, those benefits are going to outweigh almost any harms that the other team can tell you about.
So what we offer, on our side, is a path to sustainable peace in the region and also a better quality of life for people who, right now, have a really destitute quality of life.
We think that this is the best possible solution and that because so many countries have already recognized palestine as an independent country, that it's very likely that the PLO would be able to transition from the current existence they have right now to the government of a sovereign state, in particular, with support from the international community.
Therefore, we should fight for palestinian independence.
Thank you.