We should not ban home schooling.
By this we mean to say that parents should be allowed to educate their children outside of the formal school system set up by the government.
So we think that it's fine to have some sort of regulation such as to make home school students take the same standardized tests or end of year exams that students in schools take, but ultimately that it should be up to parents whether their children go to local schools.
Our first argument and something that tim really misses in his last speech is about parents rights.
Ultimately, we defer to parents many of the rights that an adult would have when it comes to their child.
So for instance, as an adult it's your decision whether or not you want to pursue education but since we see that ultimately children can't make good decisions about their future and their well being.
We let their parents make decisions about what they eat, where they live, what they do, and ultimately school should be no different.
No two children are the same.
No two children have the same needs or social standards and ultimately there's no reason why we should approach education with this one size fits all attitude when we recognize that it would be a bad idea to make every child eat the same food or play the same sports and ultimately we think that parents have a right to make these decisions.
Since they are the ones making the biggest sacrifices for their children's well being both financially and in terms of time, we think that parents ought be accorded this sort of special consideration when it comes to choosing what their children do and don't do.
The other side tramples on these rights so therefore I think it's clear that we'll win this debate.
Our second point is about the outcomes of home schooling versus traditional schooling, basically what tim talked about in his speech and I think that actually the differences are pretty small.
First of all, in terms of education in the US at any rate, home school students tend to do better on college entrance exams like the SAT or the ACT than public school students.
You can argue about why this is the case but the fact remains that these students perform better than their peers going to public schools.
So if what we care about is providing a good education the one that people deserve, then clearly by at least this one metric that a lot of people care a lot about, then they're doing better.
But what's more, we can also see that these students tend to do well on state exams like the new york state regents exam.
So it's not true that home school students are just sitting at home learning nothing and ultimately we think that that's a very unfair characterization of what it's like to be home schooled.
But next let's talk about social outcomes because tim seems worried that these home school students won't be socialized appropriately but many home school students do activities like boy and girl scouts or youth soccer leagues that expose them to other children.
In fact in many cases they're more involved in their community through things like volunteering or church groups than students who spend twelve hours a day at a public school.
Because these students time is so much more free since they don't spend hours getting to and from school every day they can actually be more engaged in their community and in socialization and what's more, we think that public school actually does a pretty bad job at socializing people for the real world.
When I was in public schools most of my peers were the same age and we were basically sorted out by how good we were at school.
Where have you ever worked in the real world where you sorted entirely by ability and age?
We think that for home school children who are more likely to associate with people of different ability levels and backgrounds and ages that ultimately they're getting a better slice of society and learning to socialize with them compared to students in public schools.
So ultimately we should not ban home schooling because it's an affront to the rights of parents, because these students do quite well on standardized tests and other exams, and because we think socialization takes place better in a home schooling environment than in a public school.
Thank you.