We should not limit executive compensation.
The first thing that I'd like to point out before I even get into my three arguments is that most executives don't get a lot of their money from their salary.
In fact, many high level executives have a salary of one dollar a year like steve jobs famously did at apple.
Instead they make money through stock options and since sam's model doesn't do anything to curtail executives getting millions of dollars in stocks or being able to profit off of their stocks if they do a good job, ultimately we don't think this is going to have any ability to coerce the most highly paid executives or to change their behavior.
That said, we have three arguments.
The first is that this will lead to more offshoring.
If I'm a sea level executive at a major american or british company let's say, and my government passes this rule that limits my salary, why not move my company to ireland where they probably won't implement this rule or singapore, or whatever country chooses not to do this.
Ultimately, what you do is ensure that the people who decide whether a company stays in america or britain or another expensive country now suddenly no longer want to stay in that country because it's thumbing its nose at them.
So there are a lot of harms to this.
First, these countries like the US and britain now see a shrinking tax base as a result of these executives, on paper at least, moving their salaries over to ireland or other tax havens.
Secondly, it's likely that many company functions will get moved to those countries.
So you'll see a huge boom in jobs in singapore or ireland at the expense of workers in the US or britain.
So as the government of one of these US or britain countries, you shouldn't do this because ultimately it will hurt your people.
Our next argument is that this would encourage more regulatory capture.
Regulatory capture is what happens when the people whom a law is supposed to limit or control become the ones making decisions about how the law is applied.
So what do I mean in this case?
If you had a law about executive compensation surely lots of executives would want to change that law or prevent it from being put into place.
One way that they could do this which is very common right now with banking regulation and things like that, would be to have executives leave their big bank for a couple of years and go work for the government as regulators.
Then they choose not to go after all of their executive friends who are making way more money than the law intended for them to do and after their few years are up they go back to working at a bank and one of their buddies takes over.
It's basically a conspiracy except that it's not actually illegal.
The only limiting factor is whether you create an incentive for people to behave in this way and I think that you very clearly do when you limit executive compensation.
So that's another good reason not to do this because it hinders our ability to regulate and actually prevent abuse.
And our third argument is that this is fundamentally arbitrary.
At what point can we say that a person is being paid too munch for their labor right?
Right now there are scientists and doctors who are making hundreds of dollars an hour at certain times of their career, where as there are other people who are working for free.
Why is that okay?
Why should some white shoe lawyer be able to make three hundred thousand dollars a year while another lawyer a few blocks down the road makes forty thousand dollars a year?
If you start limiting the amount that people can make relative to one another, you're always going to be applying arbitrary standards.
We don't think that there's any fair way to actually do this and we think that arbitrariness in the law is really dangerous because it leads to people losing respect for the law and it makes the law seem like something to be avoided rather than something for people to respect and participate in.
For all of these, reasons we should not limit executive compensation.
Thank you.