We should protect edward snowden.
So for anyone who's been living under a rock since twenty thirteen, edward snowden was an NSA employee who defected from the united states.
He went to hong kong at first and then ended up in russia.
He has applied for sanctions in many other countries but ultimately because he leaked information about illegal acts taken by the US government, he is at high risk of being sent back to the US to face a life sentence and possibly other penalties as well.
So right now he's trapped in russia.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that what we mean by protect is ultimately to give snowden asylum.
So there's a few reasons why we think snowden needs asylum.
He currently lives in russia as a temporary resident.
He has a three year permit that has to get renewed every few years.
This means that snowden doesn't have a lot of security.
Ultimately, it's going to be very difficult for him to acclimate back to a normal life and to go on to be a productive member of society as long as he has to worry about getting this visa renewed for completely political reasons that I'll return to in just a little bit.
But we think that asylum is also important because many countries around the world have benefited from snowden's actions.
Countries like germany, for instance, learned the extent of US spying on their own government officials as a result of snowden's sacrifice.
So we think that in as much as other countries are benefiting from his work, they ought offer him asylum as well.
It's unethical to let someone else suffer when you've benefited from the work that they've done and you could easily help them out.
So although it might create a sort of diplomatic snafu for a short period of time, we think that other countries that have benefited from this information including russia, ought be willing to offer snowden permanent asylum rather than bouncing him around with temporary residence.
So our next argument and the most important one in this debate, is that we want to remove snowden as a pawn in US russia relations.
The united states very much wants edward snowden back so they can find out first of all, what other information he may have that hasn't been released, second of all, what he told russia that he didn't tell the washington post and the guardian because presumably he didn't give the newspapers everything he had and thirdly, so they can make an example of him by treating him absolutely horribly so that future whistle blowers will hopefully be dissuaded.
Meanwhile, russia can hold snowden over the US as a bargaining chip and also as a way for putin to exert his influence over the rest of the world through soft power by demonstrating that he is able to protect snowden from the united states while also using him to his own ends.
So we think that if snowden were given asylum in another country like germany or france, that ultimately it would remove him as a pawn in international relations and force the US and russia to actually have adult conversations rather than rely on this kind of cold war era cowboy spying that's going on surrounding snowden right now.
And our last argument is about ultimately, what would be best for the american people who had been affected by snowden's leaks.
Ultimately, what snowden it was a huge benefit to the american people.
Many experts had suspected that US spying on american citizens had reached enormous levels but no one could prove it until snowden came forward.
So in the future if we ever actually see privacy reforms, which unfortunately have not come forward since both political parties are pro spying but if we do see major reforms, it will be because of the information that snowden brought us.
So he's been tremendously helpful to the american people as a whole and given us a great gift by making people aware of how the NSA spies on us so that people are able to avoid it if they need or wish to do so.
Ultimately he's returned the ability to choose privacy to the american people and by protecting him we would be repaying part of that debt.
So for all of these reasons, we should give edward snowden asylum.
Thank you.