Hunting should be banned.
So we're going to argue that recreational hunting should not be allowed.
We think that one way this could be implemented would be for states or jurisdictions not to issue hunting permits, or to change their law to require permits and then refuse to issue them.
We have a few reasons why we think that hunting should not be permitted that we'll provide for you this evening.
The first is that hunting is cruel to the animals.
I'm sure the other side is going to talk about why sometimes it's necessary to limit animal populations.
For instance, in the area where I grew up, there are too many white-tailed deer, and they're starving to death and eating all of the trees because there's not enough food for them, now there's no more wolves to kill them.
But even in extraordinary circumstances like that, when we need to reduce the size of population of a certain animal, it is cruel to do this through hunting.
Chasing animals through the forest and shooting at them, killing them slowly with shotguns is inhumane.
There is no way that you can justify effectively killing these animals through fear and torment, rather than having trained professionals dispose of them in a healthy and sanitary and not terrific way.
Ultimately, when you hunt these animals, their last few moments are spent running in fear from the hunter, and oftentimes they're killed in a very slow fashion, for instance, by a gun wound that isn't very clean, and then they bleed to death.
We think that this is unacceptable and that ultimately we wouldn't accept people treating dogs or cats this way, so it's arbitrary to treat other animals differently.
If you wouldn't be okay with someone chasing cats through your neighborhood and shooting at them, you shouldn't be okay with people treating deer this way either.
Our second argument is that we think this promotes a more violent society.
When people grow up hunting, we think that they are being conditioned to be more violent individuals.
Most people would have a really difficult time killing a large animal with a gun.
They simply aren't used to committing violence on any sort of scale.
So if you raise people, especially from a young age, to believe that it's okay to kill animals with guns, then we think it's more likely they'll go on to kill people with guns in the future.
After all, a certain amount of that taboo has been broken, and if you're used to killing a deer with a gun, it's a smaller step to killing a person versus if you had never grown up with that idea at all.
But what's more, we also think it promotes a certain coarseness, where life is seen as something that can be exchanged for sport rather than something that is sacred.
So we think that people who grew up hunting are less likely to respect the rights of animals or the value of lives that are very different from themselves.
We think that it promotes people deadening their own empathy so that they're able to conduct the sport, but as a result that they lose out on empathy that would have been useful to them and for society in their everyday life.
And our third and final point is that hunting is actually bad for wilderness preservation.
I think the other side in this debate will try to argue that hunting leads to political will for promoting wilderness and animal populations, but it only promotes those things to the extent that they're beneficial for hunting.
So animals that are useless to hunters are less likely to be protected as more resources are focused on animals that are useful to hunters.
And similarly, environments that aren't good for hunting, such as marshes or wetlands, are less likely to be preserved than traditional hunting environments like forests.
So we think that ultimately this leads to a wilderness preservation, but not the wilderness preservation that we really need.
We would prefer that resources are allocated based on the need of that environment rather than based on what sportsmen want to see to improve the amount of fun that they can have on saturday mornings.
So because it's cruel, because it promotes violence, and because it's harmful to preservation efforts, hunting should be banned.
Thank you.