We should limit campaign finance.
On our side of this debate, we're going to explain why much stricter limitations should be placed on who is allowed to spend money to help one candidate in a political campaign.
I think this debate is probably most relevant to the united states, where people spend billions of dollars on major elections, but we're principally fine with talking about other democratic countries as well.
With that in mind, we have two main arguments: the first is about why campaign donations can be undemocratic, and the second is about who's able to access elections.
So, first, limiting campaign finance would make elections more democratic for a few reasons.
There's a huge barrier to fundraising for people of working or lower class status.
Whereas someone like jeff bezos could effectively donate enough money to make someone the president of the united states only on his own, it would take millions of people like my parents to be able to donate enough money to support a candidate to run for the presidency.
And while the situation isn't quite as dire for the senate or the house of representatives, there's also many fewer people who are able to contribute for those campaigns.
And if you look at the state level, for state representatives and state senate, you can see that, in fact, corporations or wealthy residents are able to make relatively small donations in order to ensure that their chosen candidate wins, whereas working or lower class people have to divide what few dollars they're able to allocate towards political donations among many different politicians, so they can't afford to focus too much on any one position.
Why is this such a problem?
It gives an outsized influence to the wealthiest people in society.
It's often been noted that corporations tend to give money to both the republicans and the democrats in the presidential election.
The reason is that the reason companies give money to presidential candidates isn't because they have some deep ideological connection to a particular candidate, generally speaking, it's because they want to have the president's ear after the election, and this applies to lower-level candidates as well.
So why is this such a problem?
It means that a handful of people have a very outsized influence on how our country is governed, and what should be an office that is beholden to all of the people in a country becomes beholden to a handful of very wealthy individuals or a handful of very large companies.
This is basically lobbying or bribery without the extra steps.
So because by placing strong limitations on campaign finance we can prevent this from happening, we believe that countries would be more democratic and that elected officials would care more about what ordinary people think and want.
And our second argument is that many candidates are locked out by existing campaign finance rules.
In order to run for essentially any important office in the US, you have to be backed by the republicans or the democrats, because otherwise you won't attract much in the way of campaign finance or campaign donations.
This means that candidates who have political views that aren't espoused by one of the two main parties are systematically excluded from running.
And given that over a third of americans, about a plurality of the population, are independent, we think that this shuts out many popular viewpoints.
In particular, we see that when there are candidates who are unusually extreme for their party running in a given area, it leaves moderate people without a candidate to vote for.
On our side of the house, we think that we allow more people to run by reducing the barrier to being a candidate, namely, by lowering the amount of money that someone would have to raise in order to be a competitive candidate.
I'm not saying this will be the end of the two-party system, but it removes one of the largest barriers for candidates who run as independents or from a third party.
For all these reasons, we should limit campaign finance.
Thank you.