Abstinence-only sex education should not be mandatory.
First we're going to talk about why this type of sex ed is uniquely ineffective and then we're going to argue that no sort of sex ed program should be mandatory as such.
So our first argument is that abstinence-only education doesn't work.
We see that in states that have lots of abstinence-only sex education teen pregnancy rates are much higher than in states that have more conventional sex ed programs.
For instance, my home state of north carolina has much higher rates of teen pregnancy than massachusetts.
North carolina of course has abstinence-only sex education and massachusetts has more conventional sex education.
The reason why is that young people simply aren't going to choose not to have sex.
They're biologically predisposed to want to have sex.
As a result we think that it's very likely that young people will have sex and not know how to have safe sex if they get abstinence-only education.
What's more we think it's likely that they'll feel uncomfortable talking to authority figures if they run into a problem such as an unexpected pregnancy or a desire to learn more about birth control when they've been taught that abstinence is the only responsible option.
They might feel that authority figures won't help them or authority figures may not be allowed to help them.
So ultimately we think that this is likely to lead to more teen pregnancies.
Why is this so bad?
First of all teen pregnancies ruin peoples' lives.
Women who have a child when they're a teenager are much less likely to go to college and to get good jobs afterwards and to be successful in their lives.
What's more we think that ultimately the purpose of teen sex education is to limit teen pregnancy so therefore you're failing to fulfill the purpose of this program if you make it abstinence-only.
But we think not only is it ineffective but it also spreads lots of false truths.
It's true that you could have an abstinence-only sex ed program that just said don't have sex kids but more likely it'll try to scare kids straight.
Certainly that's the experience that many american school children have.
And we think that it's likely that this will actually encourage children to experiment with other unsafe forms of sexual behavior in order to avoid getting pregnant.
So we think that this is likely to just have many unforeseen outcomes that will actually be worse for children than just teaching them to wear a condom and helping them to get on birth control.
But our second point is that we don't really think any of these programs ought to be mandatory.
Here's why.
If you make a program mandatory then it's likely to inspire a lot more backlash than something that's like opt out.
For instance if you just make it a norm in your school that all the ninth graders these kids are fourteen go through sex ed than most parents probably won't bat an eyelash at it, especially if it's part of a broader health course.
But if you suddenly have people say there's a mandatory sex ed course and your child must participate, that's going to put a lot of parents backs up.
Many parents who wouldn't have said anything if it'd been presented in a different light will choose to withdraw their child from this program eventhough it's nominally mandatory.
After all there's only so much you can do if a parent chooses not to send their child to school on the day that they would have done sex ed.
We think that as a result it's likely that more children will go without any form of sex education if you make this kind of program mandatory because parents are going to have their backs put up.
And they might say oh but these social conservative types will support abstinence-only education but it's also likely that they don't want their kids learning about sex in schools so ultimately we think that this is likely to offend people and that the people who will be affected most are the young people who wouldn't be learning about condoms or birth control from their families because their families are so conservative.
So ultimately this harms the people who need comprehensive sex education the most.
So because abstinence-only sex education is ineffective and because it's likely that this will lead to worse outcomes if it's mandatory than if it's optional, we think that there's no reason to have mandatory abstinence-only sex education.
Thank you.