Home birth should be banned.
Home birth is the practice by which a mother chooses to have her child in her own home rather than at a hospital or some other more traditional setting in which to have the child.
So we have a couple of reasons why we think people should not be allowed to choose to give birth in their own home as opposed to in a controlled medical facility.
First, we're going to establish a standard for when the state can limit people's freedom, because obviously if you take away people's right to choose, you are removing a certain amount of their freedom.
But we think that that's okay when people are just making a really bad decision.
So, a standard for paternalism: first, when there is an asymmetry of information, we think that the government should get involved.
Ordinary people are really bad at interpreting medical advice and information because they lack the education to really understand what something actually means for them, and also because people are really bad at interpreting statistics and how they affect themselves.
We think that because the people choosing to have home births basically are not educated enough to make this decision, unless they're some sort of a OBGYN, that effectively we shouldn't permit this for people, because they won't have the information to make a good decision.
But secondly, we would be okay with the state intervening when there is a harm to a third party because of someone's decision.
And it's really clear that allowing home births poses a risk to the child being born, who didn't consent into this.
We think that because there's a comparatively greater risk of the child being harmed at a home birth than in a hospital because there's no doctor on hand, that ultimately we shouldn't permit this.
We're fine with the state limiting one person's freedom when it's in order to protect another person's basic rights, such as the right to be born in a safe, healthy fashion.
So, ultimately, we think that there is clear grounds here for the state to intervene to limit these mothers' freedom.
And our second argument is a little bit more pragmatic and it's about the cost to the healthcare system.
So, in most countries, such as france or britain, when you give birth, huge burden of the cost is placed on the government.
So you go to the hospital and the state pays for this birth.
But because this is so routine, the costs are not astronomical.
They're expensive but much lower than, say, emergency surgery and an ambulance, which is the alternative if you have a home birth that goes horribly wrong.
Even if nine out of ten or even if ninety nine out of one hundred home births go without issue, the extremely high cost of dealing with a medical emergency ultimately you're going to make this too expensive for the state to bear.
In other words, if you had a home birth that began to go wrong and there was hemorrhaging or something like that, and someone had to be brought in an ambulance to the hospital and go to the emergency room, and surgery had to be done to save the mother and the child, you could be looking at costs over a hundred thousand euros compared to just a few thousand euros to deliver a child in a hospital.
Because the state has finite resources to spend on healthcare and because money is fungible, we don't think it's acceptable to allow the risk of such high spending.
In other words, abolishing home birth is insurance for the state that an extremely expensive procedure won't take place.
Because if something goes wrong at a hospital birth, you already have the doctors there.
Everything you need is already in place.
So you don't have to go through the same extremely high cost that you would otherwise.
It's also much less likely that things get to that point, because while small complications might spin out of control in a home birth, if you're already at the hospital with a doctor on hand, it's likely that things can be resolved before they ever get to that point.
So, because of the lack of access to information, because of the risk to the child, and because of the extremely high cost involved, home birth should be banned.
Thank you.