The energy industry should be nationalized.
We would argue that the production of electricity and any other form of energy that we use in society should be done by public sector agencies rather than by private companies.
In many parts of the world this is already the case.
In many places you have public private partnerships.
We think that the government should directly own energy companies rather than contract them out to private operators.
We have a few arguments for our side today.
The first is that energy is usually a natural monopoly.
What we mean by this is that only one group is able to provide energy to a given region.
This is true because of the absolutely massive cost to getting involved in that industry.
You have to build an enormous amount of infrastructure which is essentially always built by public money even if you then let it be operated by private companies.
We think that because there's this natural monopoly where you need state support in order to build the infrastructure for energy to be delivered, that they should probably be publicly run.
There's no reason why taxpayer money should go to creating the infrastructure for energy production and distribution and then let all the profits from that go to private individuals who aren't really contributing anything to the system other than maintaining it, hopefully, although oftentimes that's not done well or it's done publicly or operating it which we think that the state is perfectly able to do.
Our second argument is that we think that this is necessary in order to fight climate change.
Private energy companies will never move away from cheap, highly polluting types of energy because it would cost them a lot of money.
We think that the only way that we will move to more expensive, less efficient, but ultimately much greener types of energy, is if the public is willing to take on the cost and that probably means nationalizing energy companies.
Now you might say " well why would we do that if it's going to cause massive costs "?
But in the long term, the cost of having new york city be under water or whatever example you want to pick for climate change, or the cost of having millions of people displaced and forced to travel to other countries as refugees, is going to outweigh the cost of having to close down some natural gas power plants before their lifespan is fully up.
We think that ultimately the cost of climate change are going to be astronomical and that we need to do whatever we can to prevent them from happening, to prevent climate change from taking the worst possible course that it could and that that probably means nationalizing energy companies so that we can force them to take on certain suboptimal investments right now as a better investment in our whole future as a species.
This is something that private actors will never do because all they care about is individual profit.
That's not necessarily evil, but it means that they're not well-suited to the type of business that we're running here and the needs that we have from energy companies.
And our final argument is about how this would affect pricing.
We think that because private energy companies have to turn a profit for their shareholders, they have to raise prices consistently from year to year in order to appear that they are a business worth investing in.
We think that it's better to have the government operate energy companies because there's no incentive to raise prices.
Once you've paid off the cost of the infrastructure, you can keep prices low and let people take advantage of the energy that they need to live without placing an extremely high burden on them.
This is especially important because in many times for instance heating in the winter in places like boston that are frigidly cold, people can hardly afford to heat their homes and have to go without basic needs in order just to live.
We think that that's unacceptable and that by nationalizing energy companies you could prevent things like that from happening.
For all of these reasons, the energy industry should be nationalized.
Thank you.