We should end mining.
So by mining we mean the extraction of minerals from the earth's crust and by we should end, we think that we would have a better world if we were to gradually phase out mining as we're able to replace those sources of minerals with other things.
So we're not arguing that there should be like a total ban tomorrow, but rather that a gradual fade out would be better for society.
Our first point is that there are less harmful ways to get the minerals that we need.
If we ended mining then there would necessarily be more recycling because we would have to re-use all of the minerals that we already have.
This would be really good because first of all, environmentally you would get rid of the harms of mining itself, I'll talk more about that in just a second, but also you get the environmental benefits of saving energy through recycling.
Ultimately, this would increase government investment in recycling and probably lead to even more efficient recycling technologies and also as the cost of metal went up, more people would actually have an incentive to recycle.
So we would see less metal and less plastic hopefully going into landfills and more of it being recycled in the first place.
So that would be a huge boon to ending mining for the environment in the long term.
Our second argument is that mining itself is very environmentally destructive.
In order to keep costs down, most mining is done with the bare minimum of environmental concern.
In places like alaska, for instance, entire mountains are destroyed in order to get minerals that might be inside them.
Oftentimes this is very damaging to watersheds which are either heavily polluted by the mining or fundamentally changed when whole mountainsides are removed.
It's damaging to the species that live there and it's really harmful for the people who live in those communities because any natural beauty that they might have had is destroyed and also the pollution probably makes their community a less pleasant place to live in now.
This is one of the hidden costs of mining is that oftentimes, it's people who can't afford to leave an area where mining is prevalent who have to bear the environmental costs.
The rest of society is foisting off an enormous externality of the cheap metal that we take for granted on to the people who can least afford to bear it and we think that that is simply unacceptable.
In in the long term it's quite likely that one day when we have alternate ways to get these metals, more on that in just a minute, we'll regret destroying entire mountainsides and tearing up a whole forest in order to strip out some copper.
Our final argument is that in a few years space technology will let us no longer need to mine on the earth.
To be clear, we are completely fine with having mining on asteroids or bodies elsewhere in the solar system.
There are entire asteroids, for instance, that are just full of metals that are rare on the earth.
So it seems quite likely that space mining technology is going to take off because the potential reward will be enormous for the first companies that do this.
And thanks to spacex the technology is coming closer and closer every year.
So if we can just recycle more in the interim in a few decades we'll be able to rely for all of our mineral needs on asteroid mining and this will be much better for the environment because it won't damage the earth and also provide cheaper metals in the long term.
But in order to encourage investment in asteroid mining we need to end mining on earth so that there's an incentive for investors to put the money that they would have spent on mining in the western united states into mining out in the asteroid belt past mars.
This will open up new capital for new technologies both in recycling and in asteroid mining that will ultimately have better impacts on the environment.
So as you can see, we should end mining.
Thank you.