We should increase local government.
On our side, we would advocate for more responsibilities to be devolved from state or national level government down to the city level.
We think that, for instance, it would be preferable for the US government and the california government to devolve more powers to the los angeles city government, for instance, rather than keep them where they are right now.
Two main arguments for our side this evening: the first is that local government is more representative than higher levels of government.
Why is this true?
First of all, in most cities, you're going to have fewer people voting for each representative than for a whole state.
It's true that some cities, like new york city or los angeles, are big enough to be states or maybe even a country, in new york's case, on their own but even so, many fewer people are voting for each city councilperson or a local representative than are voting for a state representative.
So we can see that these representatives at the city level are closer to the people that they represent.
I think that this is compounded by the fact that normally these people also live in the neighborhood or the ward that they represent in that city.
So even though your state or national representative nominally lives in your district, they probably spend most of their time in the capital, whereas your city councilperson or your ward representative might live three blocks over from you, and their kids probably go to the same high school as your kids.
That means that these representatives know what is best for their community much better, because they spend all their time there, and they're interacting with the public.
And it also means that the public has more of an opportunity to engage with the representative.
You know, if my city councilperson is at the grocery store and I bump into them, I can talk to them a little bit if I want to, or if I need to get in touch with them, maybe I can set up a meeting at our kids school and have a few people from the town come in, and you can't really do that with your state representative.
So we think that this is more democratic certainly because it better reflects the will of the people and better allows the will of the people to be put into effect.
That's the first reason why we should devolve more power to local governments.
Our second argument is because we think it would promote more investment in the community.
One problem with large national or state governments is that you have to compromise between lots of different interest groups.
For instance, in california, some people who live in los angeles or san francisco want the state to invest more money in building subways in our big cities, but people who live up in the mountains don't want to spend any money on subways.
They want to spend all their money on roads because those people never ride public transit.
So you've got a big divide here and oftentimes what happens is a minority group, like these rural people who don't care about what happens in the cities, are able to block any progress from being made in infrastructure if it doesn't benefit them.
So every infrastructure project has to have kickbacks for these people in rural areas.
This makes it prohibitively expensive sometimes to improve infrastructure in our cities.
But if you devolve these powers to the city level, then people in your city who are in favor of investing in transit or fighting against traffic and all of these other problems that our cities have would be able to do so without having to please people in other districts, who are basically just filibustering everything until they get some money in their pocket.
We think this would drive down the cost of improving urban infrastructure and that this would be really good: one, because it would let people who are more low income access more jobs and more of the city, and two, because fewer people would have to drive, and we think that this would likely reduce emissions and improve air quality, and reduce the temperature in the city, and all these other things that we worry about in big cities today.
Moreover, you might think that these rural people are being put in a tough position then, they're also getting more of what they want, because they're not being ignored by cities who would have control in the state government.
For all these reasons, we should devolve more power to local governments.
Thank you.