We should abolish foster care.
So, foster care is a system in which a minor who doesn't have legal guardians is given over to the care of some other individual.
Usually, people volunteer to be foster parents.
So, with that in mind, we think that this program, which is very common in the US and some other countries, as opposed to having orphanages, should be banned.
Our first argument is that there are many harmful incentives underlying the foster care system that lead to pernicious abuse.
Before I get into these points, the main argument I foresee the other side making against orphanages is that they are the site of widespread abuse.
But actually, a large percentage of foster parents do not treat their foster children well and many foster children are also victims of abuse, but there's at the same time very little oversight because it's so decentralized.
So we think that foster care actually leads to a huge amount of abuse and that it's more difficult to combat this than to combat it in centralized orphanages.
Here's why: you get paid to take in foster children.
What this means is that the kind of people who tend to adopt foster children are people looking for an easy paycheck rather than people who really care about the well-being of the children that they take in.
Whereas it cost a fortune to be an adoptive parent, you actually profit from having foster children.
So people try to spend less money than they receive from the government on their foster children so that they turn a profit, and also have an incentive to provide very low quality of life to these children in order to save money.
So they do things like take in several children, too many for their home to really comfortably accommodate, and make them live in basically the same conditions that they would live in at an orphanage or even worse.
They are hesitant to spend money on them for things like education or healthcare or other necessities, and ultimately these children live with a very low quality of life.
Many of these foster parents are not very kind to their foster children, and we think that ultimately this is a really harmful environment for these children to be in, because there's every reason to be abusive and to mistreat these children when they're just a paycheck at the end of the day.
Our second argument is that fostering is a poor use of state resources.
So, any government or jurisdiction, whether it be a city or a nation, has limited funds to spend on providing for orphans.
So what's the most effective way that we can provide for these children?
So, first of all, we have to consider that centralizing them into group homes which are run by the state is going to have a return much greater than putting them in foster homes, because we can provide resources to more children at once.
In other words, if you have a group home, then spending a few thousand dollars on a health clinic is likely to go farther than giving money for every individual foster parent to take their child to the doctor, because you can bring the doctor to them.
Similarly, if you need to provide clothes or food or other services, it's easier to do that and less expensive to do that if you have more people centralized in one location.
It's also easier to monitor and prevent abuse, because while it's true that the children might be at the mercy of whoever works at this group home, ultimately you can afford to do things, like regular checkups by an outside observer, at a group home at a much cheaper rate than what you could do for individual foster children who might only see their case worker very seldom.
What's more, while it's true that there might be problems with the children mistreating each other at a group home, we think that with modern amenities, it should be easier to help children get along.
We can afford to do things like give them smaller rooms rather than have them be in huge dorms, and it would still be cheaper than paying individuals to raise these children, who expect to make some sort of profit.
So for all of these reasons, we should abolish foster care.
Thank you.