We should end international aid.
So by this we mean to say that the practice whereby richer countries send food or supplies or cash to poorer countries directly ought be ended.
We would prefer that exchanges be bilateral, where something is exchanged by both countries, rather than unilateral, where one country gives something freely to the other with no expectation of material return.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for our side.
The first is about how international aid is harmful for the recipient country.
Let's imagine you have a country, like ethiopia in the late eighties, that's going through a famine.
If the international community responds by sending you lots of grain, what does that do?
Suddenly, the ethiopian grain market is completely flooded by free grain from america and europe, which means that the price of grain plummets, which is good in the sense that people are eating, but when many of your citizens are farmers, this also undermines their livelihood.
Why would anyone go out and buy grain or vegetables from a local farmer if they can get free US aid grain instead?
So, ultimately, this ends up hurting the receiving country because it damages their economy.
People aren't able to make a living as farmers, which makes them dependent on this aid, because they would starve without it because they have no income, or they move to large cities, where they become dependent on aid or the government because they no longer have an income.
And suddenly, people who were once living productive lives, contributing to the economy, helping to develop your country through their agricultural work, are completely dependent on the state.
These people no longer have any livelihood, which then creates a feedback loop, where the country demands more aid and receives more free grain from the US and europe, which ultimately makes them even more dependent on this.
And in this way, many countries have been made completely dependent on international aid, because their domestic farming industries have been destroyed through the receipt of free grain from the west.
So we think that this has to stop so that these countries' economies can be insulated from foreign production and so that their workers can continue to farm and continue to have this productivity.
Our second argument is that this creates complacency, which actually hinders solutions for major international problems.
Consider the fact that many of the countries receiving international aid have been doing so for decades, with no end in sight.
Why is it that things aren't getting better?
Well, one reason is that countries like the united states give billions of dollars away in aid every year, and then wash their hands of the problem.
They ignore the fact that there are deeper systemic issues in global capitalism that prevent some countries from developing to a point where they can sustain themselves.
People are willing to overlook things like colonial legacies of abuse that have made countries dysfunctional, to overlook dictatorial governments that make it impossible for people to start businesses or manage their own property, to overlook cultural problems that have arisen from decades of dependence on the international community for sustenance, and because of this complacency, those problems go unsolved.
It's very likely that the world could set up ways to better distribute existing food within countries rather than letting it rot.
For instance, about half of the food produced by any country normally is lost due to waste.
If we could come up with better ways for people to distribute their own food within their country, such as making refrigeration technology or other similar technologies more available, then they could help themselves.
But this international aid disguises the problem and makes it less likely that that long-term solution will ever come about.
For all these reasons, we should end international aid.
Thank you.