We should continue to use economic sanctions.
Now, I agree with danny that many times sanctions are applied unfairly or punitively.
The US killed about half a million iraqis in the nineteen nineties because we refused to sell corn to a country that is unable to produce grain for itself.
But on our side, we're fine with defending a world in which sanctions are used intelligently.
We don't have to defend the most evil nineteen nineties republican version of this, we can defend a more intelligent one, which leads into my first point which is that in the nineteen eighties, the republicans did a much better job at this, shockingly.
Let's talk about apartheid south africa.
One reason why apartheid south africa was forced to negotiate with the rest of the world and ultimately become a democratic country with rights for black people was because of economic pressure on the country.
Ultimately, many countries around the world refused to buy arms or diamonds from south africa, which undermined their ability to continue the status quo.
The businesses that had propped the country up and made it possible for them to treat black people so poorly were no longer making money, and the only way that they could change that was going to be to act appropriately.
So in this way you really aligned incentives and hurt the people that you needed to hurt.
All white south africans suffered when the country's economy started to collapse whereas black people were already at rock bottom.
Things didn't really get worse for them when, in the nineteen eighties, the economy started to go downhill.
We think that using methods like these, like targeted methods that actually are able to reach broad classes of people whose behavior needs to change, could be effective.
So I'm not going to cite any more examples from the present day, but I think that apartheid south africa is a clear example of how sanctions could be used in an effective way to change a country's policy if they were implementing apartheid against an oppressed people within their borders.
Our second argument is that it would be foolish to rule out a tool in one's toolbox.
I've already given a kind of case example of when this could be used, but also remember that if we completely get rid of economic sanctions, then there are going to be many secondary effects of that.
The first is that we're going to have to use other methods in order to change countries' behavior.
Right now, sanctions are effective, even if they have a lot of secondary harms.
We think that if you get rid of sanctions, then you're going to have more types of direct action such as special forces deployments and assassinations, like the US used to do in the seventies and eighties in latin america, as opposed to economic sanctions.
It's really bad to have the US cut off access to MRI machines for your country, but it's even worse to have the green berets ride up and shoot your democratically-elected legislature as has happened many times in latin america, such as in panama.
So we think that, ultimately, sanctions as an alternative to violence are still preferable, even if they have many problems, and that getting rid of them will sometimes lead to violence as a result when there's no other good option.
And our last argument, which kind of daisy chains off of that one, is that this is a last alternative to war.
So, it's important to remember that this is the most peaceful time in human history, no matter how bad things may seem.
Fewer people are dying right now from interstate conflict that at any point since modernity.
One reason why this is true is because countries use other means to harm each other rather than warfare.
We think that necessarily you undermine global peace when the united states, as the world's policeman, has to send in the marines more often rather than just starving people.
The US, for instance, was able to bring iran to the bargaining table using sanctions.
These sanctions were ethically abhorrent but ultimately, it was still preferable to having f eighteens dropping bombs on tehran, which is probably what the nineteenth century america would have done if they'd had the technology.
So, ultimately, this has lead to a more peaceful era of history, because we have these economic tools to punish countries rather than just physical ones.
For all these reasons, we should continue the use of economic sanctions.
Thank you.