We should not adopt socialism.
We have a few arguments for our side this evening, the first is that we think that public industries are largely less efficient than private industries.
So one of the tenants of socialism as identified by danny in the last speech is reliance on publicly owned industry, but as we can see from groups like pemex the mexican oil company as opposed to private oil companies like exxon public businesses tend to be less efficient than private businesses.
The reason is fairly simple, whereas private businesses want to have the smallest bureaucracy possible so that they can maximize their profits, public businesses tend to have very large sprawling bureaucracies since they don't need to maximize their profits.
Moreover, government tends to have more bureaucracy because it has lots of special interests.
You might for instance when you create a public oil company have different ethnic or regional groups who all want a cut of the pie and then demand that a bureaucracy be created to ensure that they get what they want then everyone complains there's too much bureaucracy but no one wants to cut the part that benefits them only everything else.
So you're left with a business that isn't very dynamic, that doesn't actually do what anyone wants.
It would be far better to just have private industries and then tax them at a good rate and then you would actually have more government intake of money rather than owning the oil company directly.
Our second argument is that this would lead to less development.
We've seen over the last hundred years that while some socialist countries like the soviet union had run away economic development others like vietnam had to transition to capitalism before they really saw development take off.
The reason is fairly simple.
In order for a poor country to develop, you need to attract foreign direct investment.
There just isn't enough capital in a country like laos or vietnam for them to develop on their own, you need to bring it in from somewhere else.
But because the international community is now so anti-socialist, more on that in just a moment, the only way to attract development is to create opportunities for foreign businesses to invest in a capitalist economy.
You don't necessarily need to have a free market, for instance south korea had a planned economy during its period of great growth in the nineteen eighties but you can't have a purely socialist economy either.
This would scare off foreign investment and ultimately make it harder for you to develop and if you believe in what socialist believe in namely helping those who are worst off in your country and reducing inequality and creating opportunity for human flourishing then you should want to develop as quickly as possible because development is what will ultimately let people in your country have a better life and be able to provide for their children better than what they had for themselves.
And our last argument is that if you adopt socialism you run the risk of international intervention.
The united states and its allies have often intervened in foreign countries when they adopt socialism.
For instance, in the nineteen seventies when chile had their government overthrown by a CIA backed coup that killed thousands of people, we can see that whenever a country starts moving toward socialism the international economy gets worried that they're going to lose the capital that they have invested in that country.
Therefore, they either invade the country in some cases or they use internal forces to fight against socialism and create instability.
So it's not a good idea to adopt socialism because you're going to run up against the might of the international system and they're going to stop you from being successful even if you could have done it on your own.
Venezuela is the poster child of this.
Venezuela has massive oil wealth and probably could have created a very successful state but the international community stoked up internal turmoil to undermine stability in the country so that now it's a basket case.
In order to avoid becoming the next venezuela, you should not adopt socialism.
Thank you.