We should not increase consumer protections.
Our line in this debate is, essentially, if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
We're going to talk to you about the tradeoff between consumer protections and cost, about how this would be ripe for abuse, and about how this discourages new business.
So, first, we think that, right now, consumer protections are good enough in most western countries.
A consumer in the european union or in america doesn't really have to worry about being taken advantage of by companies, but we also have pretty good prices on most goods that we consume.
Recognize that there's a direct tradeoff between consumer protections and prices.
If you force higher quality control, if you force companies to allow returns, all of these things make them charge more for a product, so that they can get a good return on their investment.
We think that it would probably be preferable to have prices at a medium level and consumer protections at a medium level so that the most egregious abuses, such as selling a broken product and not allowing a return, can be prevented, while we also don't price people out of the market entirely.
Let's imagine consumer electronics, for instance.
When you go out and buy a smartphone, one reason why it's so expensive is because companies have to allow you to return it if it doesn't work, so they have to guarantee that one hundred percent of the products they sell do work.
There's a vanishingly small number of, say, samsung phones that are truly defective.
We think that, ultimately, it's a good thing that people don't have to worry about buying a defective product, but the prices could probably be lower with slightly worse consumer protections.
If a few people got burned and weren't able to protect their phone, probably people who were doing something wrong anyway, it could reduce costs for everyone else.
So we think that, in this tradeoff, you have to find an equilibrium and that most western countries are probably already there.
Prices are good, people are happy with consumer protections.
We don't see any need to really improve them or change them right now, especially given that prices would certainly go up.
Our second argument is that this would be ripe for abuse.
People already abuse consumer protections right now.
For instance, people return things and say that they don't work when, in fact, they just don't want them anymore.
People lie about when they bought something.
People abuse warranties.
Ultimately, we think that people are always going to be greedy and act to their own advantage.
If you increase consumer protections too much, you give the consumer too much leverage when it comes to negotiating with a company.
For instance, right now there are some companies that give a lifetime guarantee.
If you required every company to give a lifetime guarantee, people would be able to abuse that.
There's a company called LL bean that makes really popular boots in america, and they have a lifetime warranty.
And some people will buy a pair of LL bean boots, wear them for twenty years, and then return them and get a new pair for free, even though there's no reason why you should be doing that if you got twenty years of good use out of a pair of boots.
Most people are honest and don't do this, but we think that there are enough people who are greedy or selfish that they're going to ruin this for everyone.
We don't think that it's fair to force companies to open themselves to that abuse, which leads nicely into our final point about how this discourages businesses from offering certain consumer products.
Offering a product where there's a high , for instance, turnover in how people use it, such as cheap goods, is going to be very undesirable if consumer protections increase.
Why would anybody offer a cheap cellphone, for instance, if you know that people are going to return it for warranty in a couple of years, when it would naturally need to be replaced anyway, just because it's cheap?
So we think that this will discourage cheap goods from entering the market and everything will now be sort of buy it for life, but that prices a lot of people out of being able to get goods and services that they might want at a cheaper point.
So we think this discourages an important type of business, namely the budget business, from entering the market.
For all these reasons, we should not increase consumer protections.
Thank you.