We should increase tax credits.
On our side, we think that government should offer people more tax credits for doing things that are beneficial for society, for instance, things like the earned income tax credit that you can get in america if you have children, or tax credits for saving, tax credits for starting new businesses, all of these things that are very risky and expensive for people but that are ultimately good for the country and the economy as a whole.
We think tax credits are an effective way to incentivize people.
So, on our side, we're going to talk about why we prefer using carrots rather than sticks to motivate people and, also, why we think this can correct unfairness in existing tax policy.
So, first of all, what do I mean by carrots and sticks?
We think that you can motivate people either by offering them something or by threatening them.
In effect, when you tax a harmful policy, for instance, when you tax alcohol, you're using the stick.
You're making people pay more and punishing them for doing something that's antisocial, namely, purchasing alcohol, whereas when you give a tax credit, you're using the carrot.
You're giving people a reward for doing something that's good, like having children or starting a business.
We would argue that people generally respond better to a reward than a punishment.
Whereas people just resent being punished, people hate the idea of higher taxes, they hate the idea of sin or luxury taxes, people generally just are happy when they get a reward.
They don't think about the fact that the end effect is the same: they're paying more or less in taxes, because people are emotional, not completely rational.
So they just see: hey, I'm getting a check back from the government this april because of something that I did.
That's a really good thing.
I feel good about that, and I'm happy with the fact that the government is giving me this check.
So we think that you're more likely to change people's behavior using a carrot rather than a stick, using an incentive rather than a punishment.
And why are tax credits such a good form of this?
Well, first of all, they don't really take a big bureaucracy to manage.
You just have people tell you what tax credits they deserve, and then you give them a check, and then you can find if people are committing fraud by auditing them, the same way you already run audits.
So there's very little overhead and, moreover, they're pretty easy to implement.
You just tell people: write down how many children you have, write down if you have a business, check this box if you own a farm, that kind of thing, and then a computer can even tell you whether people are eligible for this tax credit.
So, there's not a lot of overhead, and it's a very effective policy for that reason.
We think any government tax reform needs to be simple, otherwise, there's going to be lots of loopholes.
But the tax credits tend to avoid that problem.
Our next argument is that we think this can correct for unfairness in tax policy.
Right now, there are a lot of problems with the tax code in the united states.
For instance, it taxes people more for income as opposed to investments, that is to say income from a job rather than investments.
It taxes people an unfair amount if they have children versus if they don't, and things like that.
We think that tax credits con solve for this.
For instance, by giving people a tax credit if they have children, you can offset the increased burden that they have from having more dependents.
Similarly, people tend to be taxed more on income that they earn from owning a business than income they earn from having money in the stock market.
So a tax credit can kind of offset that difference by rewarding people for having a business and encouraging them to invest in starting businesses rather than just passively investing in the stock market which, of course, is good, because we want there to be economic growth from entrepreneurship.
On our side of the house, we've explained why, ultimately, this can rectify injustices in the tax code.
We've explained why it's better for individuals and also why it's a better way for the government to motivate people towards the same ends that you would get if you just taxed other behaviors more.
For all these reasons, we should increase tax credits.
Thank you.