We should not introduce goal-line technology.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why we don't think there should be different standards for different types of soccer, why we think this actually goes against the principles of fairness that rachel tells you about, and why this undermines referees, although rachel tries to tell you that it won't.
So, first of all, rachel tells you that we should do this only for the professionals and not for younger ages.
We think that a problem with this is that it creates different standards at different levels of sport.
We think that young people who grow up training their entire lives without goal-line technology aren't going to be very well prepared to play with it.
So this is probably going to lead to a system where the best people when they're very young are taught to play with goal-line technology and older maybe less qualified players at a younger age are not going to be trained in this way, which means that you're going to be segmenting off the people who are able to be professionals very early on, before young people are done growing, before people have reached their adult level of skill, and we think that that's unfair.
And you might say that goal-line technology isn't that important to how we train players, but certainly for goalies it is, so I think for at least some positions this is going to have a really detrimental effect on who is able to go pro and who's able to move up through the system in order to become a professional footballer.
Our second argument is about fairness.
First of all, I'd just like to push back on rachel's portrayal of professional soccer or football, if you prefer, around the globe.
We don't think its integrity is in doubt because of a lack of goal-line technology.
We think that to the extent that football's integrity is in doubt, it's because of corrupt groups like fifa and that you can't solve the problems of perception that soccer has just by implementing better technology on the field.
You need to change the governing bodies that have lost people's trust.
But aside from that, given the truly incredible popularity of soccer around the globe, I think it's clear that we don't need to make massive changes in order to make soccer appeal to more people.
It's already, by far, the most popular sport and actually growing in many countries like america and china, where it's not yet the most popular sport.
So I think it's clear that football isn't in crisis.
It doesn't have any big problem that needs to be resolved here.
So, forcing people to adopt expensive goal-line technology doesn't solve any problem.
We think it will actually decrease attendance, and here's why.
Smaller cities, where their club isn't as well-funded, won't be able to afford goal-line technology, so they won't be able to play in the premier league, or la liga, or their country's highest level of soccer.
This means that people in those smaller cities will be less invested in football and, as a result, that they will have fewer fans in those areas.
And since more people live in small and medium-sized cities than metropolises, we think it's quite likely that this will actually decrease support for football around the globe.
But finally, we think that this undermines the respect people have for referees, which would actually harm football overall.
If referees are no longer trusted to make a call about whether or not a shot was good, why are people going to trust them to make other calls?
This is tantamount to fifa or whoever implements this coming out and saying that referees can't see what's going on from across the field and can't be trusted to make fair calls.
But inasmuch as every call requires the referee to make a judgment call to the best of their ability, from sometimes many yards away across the field, we think that this will just lead people to think that refs are even more biased or are hacks without skill.
And if people don't think that the referees are fair, at least for the most part, then they have much less reason to spend money on training their kids to play football and on watching football, because if it's arbitrary, there's no real reason for people to care about it, and this increases the perception that it is arbitrary.
For all these reasons, we should not implement goal-line technology.
Thank you.