We should not ban home births.
We think that in most cases, people are able to make an intelligent decision about whether to give birth in a hospital or in another environment, and we think that the state should defer to individual choice when it comes to this matter.
Two main arguments for our side.
The first is that we think that banning home births places an unfair burden on some people.
There are many parts of the united states and other large countries which are extremely remote.
If you live in rural alaska, for instance, you might live two hours from the nearest hospital.
Because, as we all know, it's difficult to predict exactly when someone will give birth and in what circumstances, we think that it would be unreasonable to make someone spend days or even weeks at a time waiting near a hospital in order to give birth.
Many people have their child later than expected or slightly earlier, and we think that it would be an undue burden on these rural people to force them to go basically wait at a hospital, until they're finally having their time.
We think that ultimately in many rural communities, people have come up with ways to get around this limitation that have existed for hundreds of years.
Ultimately, you have things like midwives in the community, or first responders or firefighters and people like that, who are trained to deliver a baby.
So we think that it's not completely unreasonable to say that these people shouldn't give birth in their homes.
But what's more, we think it's an unfair burden on these mothers, because ultimately they're already spending a lot of money to have a child, and now you're asking them to spend even more money in order to do it in a hospital setting.
In particular, we think that this is an unfair burden for women from low socio-economic backgrounds, who simply might not be able to afford this, especially if insurance wouldn't pay for it.
And our second argument is that home birth is a completely reasonable option for many people.
Will portrays home birth as something that's completely risky and very irresponsible for people to opt into, but this simply isn't the case for many people.
Let's imagine that you were a woman who had already given birth to another child, and your doctor told you that you were at a very low risk of any complications.
So basically, you know what you're getting into, and you have good reason to believe that nothing bad is going to happen when you give birth, barring an emergency.
We think that in that case, there's no reason why someone shouldn't be able to choose to give birth in their homes.
Will makes it sounds like you need to be a doctor in order to deliver a baby, but this simply isn't true.
Many communities have midwives, many non-medical professionals are still trained to deliver a baby, so ultimately, we think that it's very plausible that someone could have a really good plan for how to safely and responsibly have their baby in the comfort of their own home.
And we also think there are many good reasons why someone might not want to give birth in a hospital.
For instance, many people see the hospital as a place where you go and get sick.
For instance, they're worried about mrsa or other diseases that are commonly acquired at a hospital, and we think this is a legitimate fear, there are always risks when you enter a hospital that you'll contract a disease from the other patients.
Or perhaps these people simply don't have thousands of dollars to spend on a hospital stay.
Even in countries where a hospital stay would be paid for by the government, surely we would prefer to have people give birth very cheaply in their homes, rather than consume lots and lots of money by staying in a hospital for two or three days.
And what's more, while perhaps it's good in a hospital to put a baby in an incubator or do other things immediately after birth, people have been giving birth at home or outside of hospitals for thousands of years, and clearly it's possible to do this and have the baby grow up completely healthy, so we don't think it's always so risky.
For all these reasons, we should not ban home births.
Thank you.