We should close landfills.
On our side of the house, we think that traditional landfills are very wasteful and not desirable and, therefore, that they should be closed down.
When possible, we'd like to clean them up and restore them to a cleaner, more natural state, and when not possible, we'd still like to prevent them from being further used.
With this in mind, we have three arguments on our side.
The first is that landfills can create a permanent blight on society.
Many landfills are absolutely full of plastic that will not degrade for hundreds of years or massive amounts of trash that can't decompose because of the environment of a landfill.
As a result, you end up with these areas where you have giant hills full of trash that cover large amounts of space.
We think that no one will ever be able to live there again, that people don't want to be in that area and that, ultimately, this creates a permanent blight on a given community.
When there's a landfill in a town, that's space that can never be reclaimed and that's an area that is always going to be seen as lesser, and many people will look down on an entire city just because it happens to have a landfill in that area.
So it's not just a blight on the land but also a blight on the society and the community as well, because of the ideas people have about where landfills are placed.
So we think that that's unfair to that area and, therefore, that we ought abandon the use of landfills.
Our second argument is that they're unhealthy for the people who live around them.
So not only are these shameful for certain people, but also you get pollution of ground water, you get unhealthy animals, you get all of these other issues that arise from landfills being present.
For instance, many times medications or heavy metals are improperly disposed of and, as a result, you end up with pollution of ground water in a way that can cause birth defects or other problems for children in the surrounding community.
Sometimes landfills are covered up and improperly built on, and people get sick or injured because of that.
So we think that there's actually many harms that can accrue to a given community.
The reason why I think this is unacceptable is because it's foisting everyone's problem off to a small group of people.
Usually what happens when we build a landfill is people say, " oh, it's fine, we'll just put it in this small town.
No one really cares about them, " and that town gets overridden by the rest of society.
But no one would put up with having a landfill in their neighborhood if they were able to avoid it.
So this usually means foisting everyone else's trash off on those who are least able to advocate for themselves, so oftentimes ethnic minorities or very poor people who aren't able to protest effectively against getting a landfill.
We think it's unacceptable to dump all of society's problems on the people who can least afford to deal with the impacts that it has on their health and on their community and that because landfills are never going to be placed fairly in wealthy neighborhoods, because those people will always be able to resist it, we think that it's just unacceptable to place landfills at all.
If there's no good way to do something, maybe you just shouldn't do it at all.
And our last argument is that this would encourage a lot more recycling.
If people had to pay to dispose of their own trash in other ways, we think that people would be much more fastidious about recycling anything they could.
On our side, we think that almost all plastic and metal will end up going to recycling because people won't have to come up with other ways to dispose of it.
Not only that, if it started costing money for people to dispose of their non-recyclable goods, we think that many people would choose to purchase things that were packaged or were made of recyclable goods instead, and that, as a result, you would actually see much less production of true waste in our society and a much greater recapture of goods through recycling, and that this would have a long-term virtuous cycle of leading to less and less pollution and less and less environmental degradation.
For all of these reasons, we should close landfills.
Thank you.