We should not tax pollution.
On our side, while obviously we want to limit the amount of pollution that goes into the environment and to fight against abuses, we think that a tax on pollution is a really poor way to prevent these abuses in the future.
Our first argument is that this tax is unfair because it's regressive, and our second is going to be about why cap and trade is a better alternative.
So, first, why this tax is regressive and why that means we should not implement this policy.
A regressive tax is one that falls most harshly on those who can least afford to pay it.
We see that for people who have less money, the marginal value of every euro that they have is greater than the marginal value of a euro to someone who's wealthier.
So, a billionaire cares less about each additional euro than a very poor individual, for instance.
We think that, ultimately, the problem with this pollution tax is that the cost will be passed on to very poor individuals.
Bear in mind that tim seems to assume in his speech that investors and corporate boards are just going to internalize these cost at the expense of profits, but that's ridiculous.
What's actually going to happen is that if it now costs, let's say, ten percent more to produce a bottle of coca cola, they're going to raise prices by ten percent, and that expense is going to fall more on the general populace.
And you might say, " oh, coca cola's not a necessity, " but you can certainly imagine that many goods that are necessities are going to become more expensive as a result of this tax.
So, effectively, the cost of living will go up in your country relative to the amount of money that people have in the form of wages.
We think that this is unacceptable.
Ultimately, you are passing the buck for dealing with pollution away from government, away from the actual polluters, and onto the backs of people who are just trying to buy necessities for their families.
And moreover, it's unclear to me that this tax money won't directly fall on these people.
After all, if we're taxing pollution, automobile pollution is a major contributor in most highly developed countries.
So are you now going to implement a huge tax on admissions for every single american or canadian or australian who drives?
For many of these people, rural poverty is a very real fact of life, and the only way that they can get to work or to buy necessities is to drive, because these countries are so spread out.
So, ultimately, this is effectively a tax on rural poverty.
And you can say that in order to fight climate change, we need to urbanize, but the way to do that is probably not to starve the rural poor or to plunge them even deeper in deprivation.
We think that that's just unacceptably instrumentalizing these people and dehumanizing towards them.
So we say don't tax pollution.
Our second point, as an alternative, is to propose a cap and trade model.
Essentially, the idea here is that companies would be allowed to pollute a certain amount a year based on their industry and how much they produce.
So the US government might say, " this is our pollution goal for twenty nineteen, and coca cola's allowed to pollute x amount, and IBM can pollute x amount, and apple computers can pollute x amount.
And then if it comes towards the end of the year and coca cola realizes that they're going to need to pollute a little bit more in december to meet their christmas quotas, and IBM has some pollution left over, coca cola can buy that extra pollution permit from IBM.
So companies will be able to trade pollution within this overall cap.
We think that this will be a good way to reduce increasing emissions and even if we lower the cap, to incentivize companies to pollute less in the future, but that it does so without just directly increasing the cost of every single consumer good.
So, ultimately, this is preferable because while cost will go up for consumers and, indeed, they have to go up for consumers to fight climate change, it won't immediately all fall on the shoulders of those who can least afford to bear it.
Thank you.