We should subsidize stem cell research.
So in this debate we're basically talking about harvesting stem cells from un-implanted human embryos so that we can use those stem cells to research treatments for diseases and the like.
So just so everyone is clear on the facts in this debate, the embryos that we harvest these stem cells from have not yet implanted, they're probably four to five days old, and consist of about a hundred cells.
So they're a little ball of cells and you pluck out the inside in order to access the stem cells that you need to do your research.
Right now the US government doesn't fund this.
Other governments around the world like south korea have been more positive towards it.
We think that countries like the US should allow stem cell research and also subsidize it.
Two arguments: the first is about the reasons why we think this would be beneficial for people with medical issues.
But first I want to provide an ethical framework for why we think this is acceptable.
The other team, I expect, is going to tell you that it is unethical to harvest stem cells from an embryo that will later grow into a person.
What we would tell you though is that while there are clearly shades of gray about when a person becomes a person, you know does it happen in the first trimester?
Or the second trimester?
Is a fetus a person?
There's no world of which you can claim that these embryos deserve the same human rights as you or I.
These embryos consist of a little ball of a hundred cells more like I don't know, some tiny sea creature or sponge, than they are like a primate.
We think that they lack the ability to feel pain or indeed to feel anything because they have no nervous system.
Such a being cannot have the same types of rights as you and I.
On the other hand, we have real individuals who are suffering from diseases that likely could be cured or at the very least made less severe using stem cell research.
People who do have rights.
We think we need to defer to those individuals rather than to defer to the possibility that an embryo may later develop into a being with rights.
So with that in mind, let's talk about curing these illnesses.
Stem cell research is a new frontier in treating certain diseases that are incurable right now.
We think that it's quite likely that many forms of cancer and other illnesses could be treated and that a tremendous amount of human suffering could be alleviated through the use of stem cell research.
Of course it's impossible to know that this will happen but at the very least by conducting this research we will likely gain a better understanding of how to help people versus what we have right now.
And something I'd like to point out is that harvesting stem cells from embryos is likely a temporary situation.
If we allow this research, it's likely that in the future we will gain the understanding to create stem cells through cloning or other processes without destroying human embryos.
So this is a temporary harm for a permanent good in terms of our medical knowledge.
We'll take that deal every time.
Our second argument is that even if you think stem cell research is bad in some ways, you should prefer that it happens in the US or EU countries versus happening in places like thailand where there is less regulation.
Why?
Obviously stem cell research poses some risk to the person from whom the embryo was removed, namely the mother of this embryo.
We think that if you care about protecting people's rights that you should want research go on in countries with the highest standards for ethics.
In other words, if there are developing countries where this research will be done when it's not permitted in the united states, and those countries have lower standards for the treatment of people in medical studies, then you should want the studies to be legal in america or britain so that the people participating are treated with more respect and given their human dignity in a way that they might not be in other places.
So for these two reasons we should subsidize stem cell research.
Thank you.