We should not introduce covenant marriage.
Will says that in order for opp to win this debate, we have to show that this is a bad thing in and of itself, and I'm all too happy to take on that burden.
The first reason why we should not introduce covenant marriage can best be expressed by thinking about how government paternalism works.
Paternalism is when the state intervenes and takes away some of our rights because we can't use them or because we're at risk if we choose to exercise them.
Usually, we're okay with the state intervening to protect people in a couple of instances: one, if there are third-party harms, and two, if there is an imbalance in access to information between two parties in a contract.
We call this " asymmetry of information ".
Both of these circumstances exist with covenant marriage.
The third-party harms that arise when people can't get a divorce mostly accrue to their family.
We see that, for instance, children might suffer from having their parents be trapped in these really bad marriages that they don't want to be in any longer and that other members of the community might be affected by secondary harms of people not being able to get a divorce that they really want or need.
But the asymmetry of information is much clearer.
Think about the types of people who are getting covenant marriages.
These tend to be communities that marry at a younger age than the general population.
We think that many people will enter into a marriage when they're too young to really understand what it means for their future, and then be stuck in it because of this covenant agreement that they've come into.
So we think that there are a few levels of the imbalance of information.
One is if one partner is younger than the other, they're probably less able to conceive of what it would be like to be married and what they're really getting into for themselves, and two, between the people who are getting into this covenant marriage and whoever is advising them to do so.
Presumably, these people don't just come out of the void and want to have a covenant marriage.
Some probably religious group is telling them that this is the right thing to do.
So we think it's important that we level out the imbalance in power between a church and its members, namely that the church has access to a lot more information about what it's like for people to be married than any two people who have probably never been married before.
So we think that the state is completely justified in banning these marriages, because people just don't have an access to enough information to make a good decision, and a contract should only be permitted or only be upheld if everyone had access to sufficient information to enter into that contract.
This is why you have things like terms and conditions when you sign up for a piece of software, but because marriage is so much more significant than that, we don't think it would be sufficient to just have people read some boiler plate before they get married.
And our second point is about people's future rights.
Recognize that when you enter into these covenant marriages, you significantly handicap your ability to change your mind in the future.
We think that the state should prevent people from doing things that are completely irreversible that might harm them in the long term.
We see that, for instance, you're not allowed to sell yourself into slavery.
It might seem like a really good idea right now if you have some debt or something, but it will probably hurt you in the long term.
In the same way, you ought not be able to sign yourself away to a permanent marriage because, in the future, that might not be the best thing for you, even if it seems like it is right now.
Obviously marriage and slavery are different, but the point remains that there are limitations on how you can create a contract that limits your future self.
Generally speaking, you can limit your finances or your property, but not your person, permanently, and because this covenant marriage limits your person, in the form of this marriage, we think that it ought not be allowed in the long term.
So for these reasons, we should not introduce covenant marriage.
Thank you.