We should not subsidize condoms.
So what we mean to say is that people can buy their own condoms, and we don't need the state intervene to make them free or extremely cheap, cheaper than they already are, on their behalf.
Let's talk about why.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that this is unnecessary and ineffective.
Nobody is choosing not to use condoms because of the cost.
Right now, in the US, condoms cost ten cents per condom if you buy the cheapest brand, and since all condoms are tested the same way, the cheapest brand is as good as the most expensive one.
You can literally go into any public bathroom in the US, and I've seen these in europe as well, and put in twenty-five cents and get a condom.
So, ultimately, we just don't think that anyone is experiencing a financial barrier to accessing condoms.
Maybe they are in countries like south africa that have much lower incomes, but in the kind of countries that have a government wealthy enough for this kind of subsidy program, this simply isn't an issue.
So, ultimately, this is completely unnecessary, and there's no reason that we need to be spending public money on this, because people can cough up their own seventy-five cents to buy a three pack of condoms.
But we also think that this is ineffective because where are people getting these free condoms?
Like, is the other side setting up a stand in front of every convenience store that just gives away free durex?
We don't think that's very likely.
So probably what they're going to be do is putting these in some sort of public offices, like public health clinics and schools, where people don't feel comfortable taking a condom, because they don't want to be judged by people in their community.
Lots of universities, for instance, have baskets full of condoms that sit there until they get dusty, because people don't want to walk up to the front of the school administration and take a handful of condoms.
They're more willing to go to a store and buy them with relative anonymity.
So we don't think that there's any way to deliver these effectively even if there were a need to do so, because of social shaming that makes people feel bad about wanting to take condoms in the first place.
And the other side is free to say that people shouldn't feel ashamed to take condoms, and we think that's true but ultimately, this is the world that we live in and it's one where most people in developed countries are christians, and it's one where people are going to feel ashamed of taking these condoms, so they're not going to take advantage of them, even if we do subsidize them.
Speaking of religion, our next argument is that this is unfair to religious citizens.
Recognize that many people around the world believe that it's unethical to use condoms because god intends us to have sex only for the purposes of procreation.
Now, I don't believe this and maybe you don't, but that doesn't change the fact that a billion people in the world are catholic and do believe some version of this.
We think it's unfair to use government funds to subsidize something that a large portion of the population would feel uncomfortable with or believes is unethical.
Ultimately, we should be using government funds on things that everyone agrees are good, like feeding the homeless and providing medical care to children.
There are so many things that are underfunded right now that everyone agrees on that there's no reason to fund a fringe benefit that's highly offensive to the world's largest religious group.
And our final argument is that this is going to be a poor use of funds.
What's going to happen if you subsidize condoms is that companies that make condoms are going to try to bilk the government for all it's worth.
They're going to charge way too much money to the government for what the condoms are actually worth and provide a shoddier product.
Suppliers do this for the government all the time, and if you don't believe me, I invite you to go try on some boots at an army surplus store.
They're much worse than what you can buy with your own money on the private market.
So, ultimately, the government's going to get ripped off by contractors to provide a product that people don't need, that's offensive to many of its citizens.
For all these reasons, don't subsidize condoms.
Thank you.