Big governments should be abandoned.
So by big governments we basically mean powerful, centralized national governments which have a great deal of control over provincial governments and over many aspects of their citizens lives.
And by be abandoned we mean that we would prefer a devolution of power to lower levels of government and less government involvement in people's lives in general.
So with this in mind we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that we would prefer local democracy to more large scale democracy.
In general we think that for a democratic government to be effective the elected officials must be accountable to the people whom they represent.
If you are a united states senator for california then you represent thirty five million people.
There's no way that you can possibly be accountable to all of those individuals.
On the other hand, if you are a city council member in san francisco you might represent two thousand people.
We think that if it's possible to gather all of your constituents into a gymnasium and actually talk with them, then it's much more likely that you'll actually be accountable to these people.
At the end of the day we think that one of the problems with big government is that the people making decisions are so far removed from the people on whose behalf they claim to act.
We think that ultimately this prevents them from making decisions that reflect the wishes of ordinary people because they don't ever interact with them.
They don't know what ordinary people want.
We think that devolving power to regional, state, or local governments would ultimately mean that more power was invested closer to individuals.
This way people would have more control over the government as it affects their own lives and we think therefore that the government would be more legitimate because it would better reflect the will of the people whom it claims to represent.
Our second argument is about the inefficiency of large governments.
We think that there is a tendency for large governments to become bloated over time.
The reason why is that there's very little impetus for them to ever slim down or trim fat when it arises.
Consider that ultimately, if you are a bureau of the united states federal government, and I'm sure this is true in britain and germany and other countries as well, then if the only oversight comes from political officials who benefit from the work that you do, then there's never any incentive for anyone to think about how to make your bureau more effective or more efficient.
As long as you do the work that gets the politicians re-elected, no one really cares how much money you spend.
After all it's all taxpayer money so many people feel it doesn't really belong to anyone.
It's very abstracted.
On the other hand, the local level, because you have greater levels of accountability, ultimately we think you have more of an incentive to be efficient because you know the people whose money you're spending.
And what's more, it's easier for ordinary people to keep an eye on spending in their community versus in london or washington or berlin or wherever.
At the end of the day if you see that government officials are doing a poor job in your city, it's much easier to do something about that then if there's a problem going on hundreds of miles away in the capital.
So we think that there are greater checks on local government then central government.
And on top of that that there's more of an incentive for people to care about how money is used and that all of this leads to a more efficient use of state funds.
Our last argument is about government overreach.
We think that as you centralized power in these large federal governments, that ultimately there's an incentive for the state to interact in every part of people's lives.
After all if you're already regulating so many parts of someone's life, it seems relatively easy to regulate other parts as well.
This is probably why we see things like liquor monopolies in many parts of the US and canada, even though governments probably don't have any business selling alcohol.
But if a state is so involved in people's everyday lives then it seems perfectly natural to them.
At the end of the day we think there would be less overreach if we devolved more power and people had more control over how the state interacts with them.
For all of these reasons big government should be abandoned.
Thank you.