We should not prohibit international adoption.
We have a couple of reasons why we think this is true.
The first is that this prohibiting this international adoption would be unfair to the children who would otherwise be adopted.
Think about the two worlds that exist here.
If we ban international adoption, then children who would have otherwise been adopted are now staying in orphanages whereas if we allow it, then those children now go to a family that presumably really cares about them, since they went to such extreme lengths to be able to adopt them.
So the difference is that in the world where you ban international adoption, more children grow up in orphanages and aren't able to be adopted whereas in our world, more children are being adopted by families that really want them, that are willing to spend a lot of resources to give them a better life.
So I think it's clear that this is better for the children on our side of the debate.
But moreover, we also think that it's unfair to just say that children shouldn't ever leave their own country.
Lots of these children would be moving from a poorer country to a richer country and therefore, they would have access to certain opportunities in life that might not be available to them.
For instance, if you were moving from a country that doesn't have very good health care to a country that does, then you might get better treatment for an illness that you have, or you might be more likely to lead a long, happy, fulfilling life.
In the same way that we don't forbid people from migrating to a wealthier country, even if we put up some restrictions, we shouldn't forbid children from being brought to a wealthier country either.
After all, children aren't able to immigrate themselves because they're not adults, but we think that they should be allowed to move from country to country if it's clearly in their best interest, allowing that an adult is able to do that for them.
Our second argument is that we think that it's arbitrary to limit where children can be adopted based on national borders.
Many countries around the world have completely arbitrary borders.
There are, for instance, millions of people who speak russian living in ukraine and some people speaking ukrainian living in russia.
Why should it be impossible for a member of one community to adopt a child who speaks the same language, practices the same religion, may even be a cousin or a relative of theirs, from another country?
This is just putting up an arbitrary boundary effectively.
In particular, although this is less of a problem today than it was ten years ago, sometimes country borders have changed under these orphans' noses and now, suddenly, they're on the wrong side of a border, whereas they would have been able to be adopted before a country changed.
You could imagine the breakup of the soviet union and how it probably affected a lot of children's ability to be adopted by people from other republics there.
Even though that situation no longer exists today, it still seems arbitrary to let national borders determine where and when we're able to adopt children.
And another thing I'd point out here is that, in many cases, these children do have relatives abroad or do have kinsmen abroad who would be able to adopt them, but can't because of these national borders, even if they haven't changed.
A good example of this would be to think about the adoption of jewish children in by americans.
So if you have jewish children in eastern europe, who aren't being adopted, and they're adopted by american jews, their culture is still being preserved, their language can still be preserved, their religious is still being preserved, the only thing that's changing is what country they live in.
But we think that it's clear that at least for some groups, country and language are distinct, country and culture are distinct, so allowing someone to be adopted by a member of their culture might be better than being allowing them to be adopted by someone from that same country.
So for these reasons, we should not prohibit international adoption.
Thank you.