We should not abandon twitter.
On our side, we think that governments should not prevent people from using twitter and that citizens should continue to use twitter as a news source and as a social media platform.
We're going to talk about why twitter uniquely spreads news in emergencies, how it's been helpful for political organization, and how there is no real alternative to twitter as a platform.
So, first, we think that twitter is really well-suited to spreading news of emergencies.
For instance, recently I found out that there was a fire on my college campus through twitter before the official emergency announcement system alerted me.
We think that because people tend to post on twitter kind of with a hair trigger, they feel very comfortable making a post about anything, that people can communicate and spread news very quickly.
So, in this case, for instance, someone posted a picture of smoke over a building on campus, and pretty soon people were confirming that it was a fire, with pictures of fire trucks, and then, after about twenty minutes, the school finally got around to alerting us.
So I think it's clear that even though that's a kind of silly example, twitter can be useful in emergencies.
And what's more, because it's so accessible, people can use it in all different types of circumstance.
For instance, even in less wealthy countries, many people still have smartphones and with those smartphones, have access to data.
So they can post on twitter about events in their communities, where those things might not be covered by regional media or where official systems for reporting on something might be very slow.
So we think that this makes information much more available and that it greatly increases the speed at which information or with which information is available.
So twitter's uniquely valuable in an emergency because it's oftentimes going to be the first way that people can hear about what's going on.
Our second argument is about how twitter is useful for political organization, and I think the classic example here is the arab spring.
During the arab spring, protesters were able to rapidly organize events and respond to government actions using twitter.
A major problem for organizing a million person protest or something like that, before the invention of the internet, was getting a million people in one place for a common cause.
But with twitter, it was easy to see that people were frustrated with dictators like muammar qaddafi and easy to see that people were finally willing to do something about that.
So you can actually organize events on twitter just as simply as tweeting out at nine AM, " everybody go to this place. "
And as a result, you were able to organize these huge protest movements.
Now, I'm sure the other side is going to point out the fact that sometimes this leads to violence, and it certainly did in libya, but I think it's important that twitter allows the public a chance to organize in a way that they didn't have before.
And for every libya that they can point to, I would say that civil wars aren't something new.
But the kind of relatively peaceful reform that we got in tunisia, aside, of course, from that initial immolation, would been very difficult without twitter.
So I think it is clear that the arab spring and other movements, begun in large part by online organizing, can have real world positive changes for countries.
And our final argument is that there's no real alternative to twitter for people to turn to.
Without twitter, it's not clear to me where people could go to post information that's publicly available instantly, where they could see what's trending and what people are talking about, and how they can then respond to that larger conversation.
It's true that there are a lot more types of social media available today than there were when twitter came out, but that doesn't mean that twitter doesn't still serve a unique role.
I think it certainly does a lot of things that instagram can't do, like the type of group organization that we were talking about just now.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abandon twitter.
Thank you.