Private universities should not be banned.
I think that many people have a really negative view of private universities that's completely unwarranted.
Rather than the bastions of privilege that they might have been in victorian times, today private universities are huge engines of the economy and for economic mobility.
So we have two arguments this morning for why these universities should not be banned.
Our first point is that these increase economic mobility.
So what do I mean by this?
Private universities have much more money to spend per student than public universities do.
Right schools like harvard can spend a lot more than a school like berkeley or UCLA per student just because they have so much more money.
What does that mean?
It means that they can be very generous with financial aid for their students.
Ultimately if they see that there are low income students who are able to do the work, many of these very expensive private schools will completely reduce the cost of tuition for those students and this is how I went to college.
I grew up without a lot of money and I worked hard and got good grades and I applied to a bunch of private schools until one of them gave me a lot of money.
So ultimately these schools are uniquely able to propel hardworking low income students ahead in the work force in a way the public schools simply can't afford to do.
Even if the cost of tuition on paper is one third as much at a public school as a private one, in practice many of the people at a private university are paying zero dollars while rich people are paying for them to attend in their stead.
So if you banned these private universities, many people would have to pay more for college and wouldn't be able to go at all because they can't afford to go to public university and the only free tuition comes from private universities.
So we think that ultimately you would harm economic mobility, trap people in their existing social class, if you were to ban these private universities.
And our second argument is about the research that these universities produce and I think that this will outweigh any argument the other side makes.
Here's why.
Most of the world's medical and scientific research is coming out of private universities in the united states.
What do I mean by this?
So in the US they spend far more money on scientific research than any other country in the world per capita.
What's more, almost all of the spending is private.
The US government spends a fortune on research every year but that pales in comparison to what private industry racks up.
Ultimately, most of this money goes through private universities.
So what we see is that schools like harvard and stanford are unique global drivers of scientific research compared to any other school.
If you shut these universities down a few things happen.
Firstly, you break up some of the most important labs in the world.
The labs that developed technologies like crisper would simply go away because no other institution besides private universities has the funds to make these things possible and what's more you would also spread the researchers who can create this knowledge across the globe.
So rather than having places like cambridge massachusetts be hubs of scientists and researchers, suddenly they're all spread out and they're working at private industry in order to make some millionaire profits rather than working for the public good.
We think that science for its own sake would greatly suffer if you were to ban private universities and we think that this also applies to medical research.
Here's why.
There's a lot of money in curing things like impotence or diabetes that millions of people have and there's very little money in curing something that's a rare disease that very few people have.
So these rare diseases get treated much more often by private universities than they do by public research or by private non-university research.
So people who have these rare diseases will really suffer if we ban private universities and lose that research.
For all these reasons, we should not ban private unis.
Thank you.