We should not adopt multiculturalism.
I think that in his last speech sam has somewhat missed the debate.
This isn't around about what kind of festivals our towns are putting on, or at least it's not only around about that.
It's around about whether or not we should encourage people to abandon having only one culture and focus on having a more multicultural community.
For instance, we see that in many parts of the US people celebrate chinese new year and hanukkah and kwanzaa and all these other holidays and people identify with many parts of different cultures in a kind of hodge podge.
And while that may be great for some people, we're going to present to you why this is ultimately harmful for minority cultures.
So our first point, is that this leads to a loss of traditional culture.
So we think that what multiculturalism actually is is cultural leveling.
The things that are farther from the norm in every given culture become less and less acceptable and all the cultures become more similar to one another.
To give a very just simple example, if you have one culture that eats a certain animal and none of the other cultures in this cultural milieu do, then it's likely that they'll stop eating that particular animal.
And you might say, well that doesn't matter, and maybe that's true but things like religious practice and types of art or music that are only practiced by one particular group are likely to be lost by this cultural leveling.
And you might buy sam's point that we should care the most about the majority group but ultimately everyone loses out from the loss of diversity.
There's a loss of ideas and experiences that could contribute to a more vibrant global culture if we let people choose to maintain their own culture which means not enforcing multiculturalism.
Remember that that's what this debate is about, whether we should seek to enforce this multiculturalism on people or whether we should let them keep their traditional culture.
Our second argument is about why this enforces majority norms.
So, similar to our last point, but the difference here is that minority groups will have to change their customs in order to participate in society now and that as you allow a more powerful group to dictate terms to a less powerful group, the flow is really going to be one way.
Yes, you might see white people in europe start eating chinese and indian food but they're not going to start practicing buddhism for instance.
Whereas we think that many immigrants to these countries that promote multiculturalism very heavily will feel pressured to practice christianity and to celebrate christian holidays especially because they're presented as something that's part of a larger cultural milieu rather than something that's specific to one particular culture.
So we think that what this really looks like is just presenting the dominant culture as multicultural and everyone else has to kowtow to it.
Something that we think will ultimately enforce the norms of one community on everyone else in a way that's unacceptable.
And our last point is that there's more room for individual choice on our side.
In our world, people can choose to live in a community that doesn't participate that much in the dominant culture but that maintains its own minority culture, for instance, chinatown in san francisco.
People can choose to participate in those communities or to leave them and go out into the majority community if they want.
So what we do is allow people to choose what their own identity is going to be whereas on the other side I think what you'll find is that people aren't able to make this choice because one sort of compound culture is forced onto everyone.
To some extent you already see this in the united states.
People might celebrate different holidays from one another but almost everyone celebrates christmas and almost everyone celebrates american civic holidays even if they're not part of their traditional culture because it's been forced on to everyone, because it's seen as the norm in this american melting pot.
But that leads to a loss of experience for people who immigrate here compared to what they could have had in a country that allowed them to practice their own culture.
For all these reasons we should not adopt multiculturalism.
Thank you.