We should not raise corporate tax rates.
Before I get into the debate, I'd just like to bring in some facts that I think are important for everyone to know.
First of all, the united states already has the highest corporate tax rate of any major industrialized country.
And even though this debate isn't just about the united states, many other industrial countries, like germany and britain, also have relatively high corporate taxes compared to what we call flag of convenience countries, like singapore, that countries move to to avoid paying corporate taxes.
So, we think that there's already a problem with corporate taxes being too high and that you only make it worse by raising them further.
Our first argument against raising corporate taxes is that this will lead to a higher cost of goods and services.
Rachel seems to think in her speech that if you raise corporate taxes, the tradeoff is going to be against shareholder profits rather than the cost of goods.
But corporations, quite rightly, view taxes as a cost of doing business.
If you do business in the united states, then you have to pay that twenty-five percent corporate tax rate.
So what's going to happen if the tax rate goes up is that corporations are going to raise the price of all of their goods to offset that tax increase.
So, if the tax rate goes up ten percent, we might expect to see the cost of goods go up ten percent.
Ultimately, we think that this would be horrible for most people.
Why?
People don't really have a choice about interacting with large corporations.
It's just a part of our everyday life.
You can't have a bank account or buy a car, you can't even go shopping in america anymore, or in most countries, for that matter, without interacting with mega corporations.
So, ultimately, this is going to affect everyone, not just the elite.
Rachel tries to present this as a sort of populist thing, but I don't see how making it harder for ordinary people to afford cars or even mugs and dishes and things like that, just ordinary essentials, is going to be good for anyone.
And bear in mind: these costs will be passed on to consumers in one way or another.
Corporations are not just going to stop being profitable.
Because corporations aren't run for the public good, they're run to make money for their shareholders, and that's what they're always going to do.
Unless you fundamentally change the structure and purpose and nature of corporations, you're not going to change the fact that they will charge consumers more than their products are worth.
That's simply how it works.
And our next argument is about offshoring.
As I mentioned briefly in my overview, what happens when a country has very high taxes, as the US does right now, is that companies move to other countries with lower taxes.
This is basically how ireland functions as a country.
The irish are no more qualified to work in any big business than the english or americans or anyone else, but they have a disproportionately high amount of basically american and british companies in their country.
Why?
Well, the corporate tax rate is much lower in ireland than it is in the UK or the united states.
So, as a company, you keep your big new york city headquarters and you declare your dublin branch office as your actual headquarters, and now suddenly you're paying taxes on all of your profits in ireland instead of the united states.
The impact of this is that the US actually receives less money in taxes.
Increasing the tax rate does not always increase revenue.
In fact, sometimes it decreases revenue if suddenly you change people's decision-making process such that they want to avoid taxes more than do business in your country.
Ultimately, what's going to happen if you raise the corporate tax is that big american companies, like general electric or ford, will just move their headquarters to countries with cheaper income tax rates.
They'll still do business in the united states but ultimately, the taxes on their profits will be reaped by another country and won't go into supporting the american government and its mission to help the american people.
For all these reasons, we should not raise the corporate tax rate.
Thank you.