We should subsidize adoptions.
Basically, we think that the state should pay a large portion of the fees that someone incurs when they adopt a child.
Right now, adoption is extremely expensive.
In the US, it can cost tens of thousands of dollars, and we think that it's unacceptable that there's such a high cost to people who are trying to do something that is fundamentally very altruistic and very generous of themselves.
So our first argument is about why adoption is preferable to the alternatives.
So, in some countries, they have lots of use of foster care, where you have a foster family that takes in several foster children and takes care of them until they get adopted or they grow up, and in other countries, you have a greater use of orphanages, which are like group homes for these orphans.
Both of those alternatives are worse than adoption for a few reasons.
From the perspective of the children, they will have a more loving environment if they have parents who care enough to take them in than they would be able to get in a group home.
They'll get more one-on-one attention from their parents, and it's also more likely that they'll be able to succeed in education and to go on into the workplace.
This is true empirically, but also just logically makes sense that if you have parents who love you and are looking out for you, it's likely that they'll be sure that you do your homework and get a job and do internships and things like that, as opposed to if you go to a group home that just kicks you out the day you turn eighteen and leaves you with no way to go to college or get a good education and that sort of thing.
So this is clearly much better for children than having foster homes or orphanages.
It's also much better for the government.
Every expense for these orphan children or these unwanted children at foster homes or orphanages has to be paid by the state, so it's a huge burden on the government per person, whereas once the children are adopted, now they're the responsibility of their parents and all of those costs have been shifted onto the shoulder of their parents.
Now you might say it's very expensive to raise a child so, ultimately, the cost of adoption up front shouldn't really dissuade anyone who can afford to raise these children.
But there's a big difference between spending hundreds of thousands of dollars over the course of eighteen years and having to spend twenty thousand dollars up front to adopt.
We think that that's a very substantial barrier and that, ultimately, it would be better for the children and the state if we were to encourage adoption by removing this barrier.
The next thing we'd like to point out is that, right now, adoption is fairly classist.
It's mostly children of the lower class being put up for adoption because their parents can't or won't take care of them, and then they're being adopted by upper-class people.
But we think that there are plenty of lower-middle-class or working-class families who could and would take care of these children very successfully but, as I mentioned before, who don't have the capital to allocate up front for adoption fees.
So, on our side, we facilitate access to adoption for the working class, and we think that opens up a huge amount of loving families whose parents would put a lot of work into raising these children.
Ultimately, this makes adoption less classist and more accessible to everyone.
And we would tell you that because people have a fundamental right to be parents, this includes working-class people, that we ought facilitate people's ability to be parents.
Ultimately, we do that better when we subsidize adoption.
This also encourages parenthood writ large.
Right now, if you can't have a biological child and you're not very wealthy, there's just nothing you can do about it, so people don't feel like parenthood is that important to them.
But more people would invest their energies into parenthood if they were actually able to become parents, and this would increase their civic investment in things like public schools or opportunities for young people, because it would affect them personally.
Therefore, this would change the political landscape with respect to children.
For all these reasons, we should subsidize adoptions.
Thank you.