We should not abandon chain stores.
On our side we think that contrary to what you've heard from the other side, chain stores are beneficial for the community and often are a better place for people to work than local businesses.
I'm going to develop both of those two arguments and then I'll respond to an argument that we might hear from the other side of this debate.
So first, how do these or stores help the community?
We tell you first of all, that chain stores normally offer better prices and more diversity of goods and services than local businesses.
This is true for a few reasons.
First in terms of price, chain stores are more efficient because they're able to purchase inventory on a larger scale.
If I own one hardware store then I don't get a huge bulk discount whenever I go in and buy something whereas lowe's hardware or home depot can get an enormous discount when they go to buy goods and then offer them to people at a lower price.
We think that this is good because it makes goods more accessible to people who are lower income or even middle income.
At the end of the day, people seem to really prefer low prices since they consistently seek out low price retailers over higher quality retailers.
So we think that this is important to people and that it is good for the community to let people have access to the goods that they need or want.
But moreover, most locally owned businesses are going to be smaller than large chains, they're going to operate in a smaller store front, they're not going to build a new building, all of those kinds of things.
So we think that there's a greater diversity of goods available oftentimes in large chain stores.
Again to use hardware stores as an example, your local hardware store might carry one brand of spray paint but home depot might carry sixteen and therefore you're more likely to find what you want and more likely to learn what brands are best for your needs.
In terms of why we think this is better for workers, large chain stores are held to a much higher standard by government regulation and by the community than local businesses.
I think that on the one hand this is just true anecdotally from my experience.
Small employers make people work late and don't pay them, they ignore the law, they force people to do things that are illegal, they don't care about what's in your contract, they make you do whatever needs doing.
Why?
Because the owner is usually also the manager and is much more invested in what every single worker is doing and the success of that business.
Whereas at a large big box store the manager is not the owner.
They obviously want to do well so that they have good performance but at the end of the day, they're not going to force people to do things that are illegal because they're worried about liability.
They're not going to ask you to do things that are too far outside your contract as often because they have a larger staff to draw on so they're more likely to have someone who can do any particular job.
So we think that this is much better for workers.
It means that you're more likely to do the job you signed up to do.
You're more likely to get paid on time.
Large employers are more likely to offer benefits in the US where we are not lucky enough to have a government that offers us benefits.
So I think that it's clear that it's better for ordinary people to be able to work at these stores and therefore that we should support them to encourage them to offer these jobs.
Lastly, I'd like to respond to the idea that local business is strictly better than these big chain stores.
We think that both have a valuable role in a small town or a small city.
At the end of the day, local businesses do offer something unique and a certain flair to a community.
They're more likely to be involved in the community and to support people around them but at the same time they're almost always going to be worse places for workers and they're not going to offer the same prices and diversity of goods.
So we think that a balance between the two is best and therefore that we should not abandon chain stores.
I think the other side of this debate has a burden to tell you why we must abandon these stores rather than have a healthy mix between the two whereas we're going to defend having that healthy mix.
Thank you.