We should abolish marriage.
So, in this debate, we're saying that we think that liberal countries, like the united states or britain, should stop having the government recognize and issue marriage certificates.
So basically, if you want to go and get married at a church or a synagogue, we don't really care about that, what we're talking about is the legal relationship of marriage.
And by abolish, we think that people who are currently married would no longer be recognized as different than people who are single, under the law.
So this would not have a grandfather clause, and future people wouldn't be able to get these state-recognized marriage certificates or to get married by a justice of the peace or anything like that.
It would become purely a religious thing.
So, three arguments for why we should abolish marriage.
First, we think marriage enforces harmful social norms.
We see that, for instance, although the united states has gay marriage now, many other countries around the world don't.
So we see marriage is fundamentally something that excludes certain people because of their intrinsic characteristics, things they have no control over.
So we think that it's very biased.
We don't see any reason why gay people in germany, say, shouldn't be able to have all of the same legal rights and protections as straight people.
That means that either you can expand marriage or you can get rid of the privileges entirely.
But we think that expanding the definition of marriage will always be a post hoc solution to problems, that, for instance, we saw that after decades of discrimination, interracial marriages were allowed in the US, but a tremendous amount of harm was done up to that point.
Then we saw that after decades of discrimination, gay marriage was allowed in the US, but a tremendous amount of harm was created up to that point.
It's hard for me to say what the next big social issue would be, but it seems clear that many people will suffer before, eventually, marriages extended to new groups that right now might be excluded.
Polyamorous people are a good example of this.
Right now, polygamy is illegal in almost all western countries.
So we see that these people are being unfairly punished by the status quo.
We think that because marriage is going to discriminate against people like this, it would be better just get rid of it in the first place.
Our second argument is that marriage isn't really the state's business.
From a christian context, marriage is a sacrament.
It changes people's relationship with each other and with god.
Obviously, that's not the business of a liberal state.
For other religious groups, we see that there are still benefits to marriage within their community, but they don't need state sanction to access any of those things.
We think that, ultimately, from the state's perspective, all marriage is is a tax write-off, and we can probably do that just as well by creating other ways for people to claim each other on their taxes.
So, it's not the state's business, which leads nicely into our third point that we would prefer other legal statuses to replace marriage.
So, maybe something like domestic partnerships.
The only legal reason to get married right now is so that you can do things like visit a loved one in the hospital, have a say over their funeral arrangements, and for a few tax benefits.
We would prefer that people would be allowed to just sign up for those things without all of the baggage that goes with marriage.
For instance, if you have a close friend that you are want to be able to control your funeral arrangements, why shouldn't you be able to sign some sort of contract with them.
If you have and I guess the other team could say, " oh, you could be the executor, " but fundamentally that's different than the role of a spouse.
In the same way, if people are living together, why shouldn't they be able to claim a tax benefit whether or not they're married?
We think that, ultimately, this is pretty arbitrary, and that there are very few good legal reasons why marriage should exist as a unique status that bundles all of these things together, when they're actually separate interests.
So we should abolish marriage because it leads to harmful social norms, because it's not the government's business, and because we could create other, preferable legal statuses.
Thank you.