We should adopt socialism.
So, because there's many different types of socialism, what we're talking about in this debate is what marx might call " the dictatorship of the proletariat ", namely, a government in which working people control society and in which all the productive property, factories, farms, things like that are controlled democratically by working people.
So, if you work in a factory, you have control over how that factory is run, things like that.
So, three reasons why we think that we should adopt socialism.
First, we think that socialism allows us to implement a more democratic society.
Right now, although many people around the world live in countries like britain or the US, which are nominally democratic, in practice the very wealthy have much more powerful than the less wealthy.
It's very easy if you own property, for instance, to influence lawmakers to make your property more valuable or to prevent other people from benefiting from that property.
We think that this makes a mockery of democracy, when some people basically have much more influence than other people.
The only way that I can see to prevent this from occurring is to give everyone an equal stake in society.
In order to do that, you need common ownership of sources of wealth because otherwise, some people will always have a greater stake in society and more influence.
So we think we need to adopt socialism so that everyone has an equal democratic say in decision-making processes.
This would obviously impact people who are poor right now, but it would also be to the benefit of people like african americans or women globally, who have systematically been denied access to this kind of property in the past.
Our second argument is that we think we could shift production from being profit-driven to need-driven.
So, consider this: right now, corporations have to produce things in order to make a profit.
So if you're a pharmaceutical company, there is a lot more money in producing an erectile dysfunction drug, like cialis or viagra, than there is in producing a cure for some rare disease.
Ultimately, this means that you get a market that's full of erectile dysfunction drugs and very few cures for these rare diseases.
We think that in a socialist world, it's very likely that people would say, " well we already have drugs for erectile dysfunction.
We can now turn our labs and scientists towards producing cures for diseases that right now don't have treatments. "
In other words, the shift is away from doing what's the most profitable to doing what is the best for society.
It's possible to actually consider the wants and needs of people regardless of their wealth, because suddenly their wealth doesn't determine how important they are to the democratic decision-making process, for all the reasons we just spoke about.
So we think that if we adopt socialism, we live in a world with more cures for rare diseases, with more goods produced that people actually need, rather than things that are more profitable.
Maybe we get fewer iphones and things like that, but if that means that we get better housing for people in places like haiti, then we think we're willing to bite that harm.
And our last argument is about reducing global poverty.
We think that, ultimately, if we adopt socialism, there's much more incentive to help others abroad.
Right now, there's pretty good social welfare if you live in a country like the US or germany or britain.
But globally, there's a tremendous amount of inequality, and we think that this is largely driven by capitalism.
What we mean by this is that in order for the US and similar countries to remain wealthy, they have to extract materials from other countries and then sell produced goods back to them.
Now, today, this might take a different form.
You might produce things in a place like china, but the profits still accumulate back to the american companies that designed them, for instance.
We think that you can change this and that in doing so, you allow more distribution of wealth globally.
In other words, the wealth that people working in china or in bangladesh create when they produce something can now be kept in those countries rather than being sent to the west.
So for this reason, we think you would reduce poverty globally in a tremendous fashion.
So for these three reasons, we should adopt socialism.
Thank you.