We should not abolish credit scores.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why we don't think credit scores should be abolished and why they're actually useful, first, because they make credit more available to people, second, because the alternative community trust is much worse than the status quo ; and then we're going to respond to some points from the other side about security.
So, first, why do credit scores make credit more available to more people?
Because of the easy access to credit scores, banks know who they're lending to much more easily than they did before.
As a result, banks can make better decisions and better assess the risk of any given loan.
Therefore, they can set an interest rate that reflects that risk more easily than they could fifty or sixty years ago when credit scores were less common.
We think that as a result, making personal loans is more profitable.
Banks know that they can set the right interest rate and that they're likely to get a return on their investment, so they have an incentive to make credit available to people.
As a result, it's easier for people to borrow money to do things like buy a home, or start a business, or send their children to school.
We think that this is really important.
In the past, it was often difficult for people to have social mobility because they couldn't borrow money, because they didn't have access to credit.
This meant that if you wanted to improve your property to be more productive or open a business, you had to know someone in order to get credit.
More on that in just a moment.
We think that with credit scores, though, there's a good reason for banks to get involved, and banks can set fair interest rates and that as a result, people can improve their own standard of living.
We think that credit is incredibly important for the existence of the american dream, or whatever you want to call it in any developed country.
In order for people to be entrepreneurs or to improve themselves through education, they need access to credit, and we get them that more effectively by having credit scores than by not having them.
Our second point is about why the alternative to credit is community trust and why that's a worse metric for measuring someone's creditworthiness.
A credit score is based on a lot of factors: your income, how indebted you are, how promptly you make your payments on existing loans, that kind of thing.
It's essentially based on the numbers, whereas if the alternative is to be based on community trust so that you have to go into a bank, and ask someone in person for a loan, and then they decide whether they trust you to pay it back or not, we think that a lot of implicit biases creep in there.
We think that, for instance, banks are unlikely to lend as much to people who are ethnic minorities, or people who are recent immigrants, or women if we rely on community trust, because historically those groups have been seen as not as likely to be able to make a lot of money and to pay off a loan.
This would mean that those groups would have less access to education, be less able to start businesses, and generally less able to improve themselves.
So we think that relying on community trust would actually make the entire economy more favorable to traditionally privileged groups at the expense of everyone else.
And we don't want to see that happen, because it's an affront to equality and will make it more difficult for people to improve their own lot in life, which we think is usually the key to long-term success.
The last thing we'd like to do is respond to the point about credit scores being insecure, that we think the other side might bring up.
It is true that transunion, an american credit score company, leaked millions of social security numbers and got off the hook scot-free.
However, this isn't a unique problem.
Stores like target have also leaked important data from individuals.
Government databases have leaked data about individuals.
Credit scores are not the cause of people's data being compromised, instead they've been the victim of laziness by corporations to protect our data.
We think that taking a firmer stance on data privacy would be more important and more effective than abolishing credit scores in terms of keeping our social security numbers safe.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish credit scores.
Thank you.