We should not subsidize humanitarian aid.
On our side of the house, we think that while governments should probably offer humanitarian aid, they shouldn't subsidize any sort of NGO or private organization to do so.
We have three arguments for our side: the first is that private aid is very inefficient compared to government-backed aid.
This is true, most importantly, because of the problem of having lots of bureaucracy.
If you have a hundred NGOs, and really there are many more, but a hundred NGOs in the united states that all want to help people in sub-saharan africa, let's say.
All of these NGOs have to have an administrative staff.
They have to have a board of directors.
They have to have fundraising staff.
So, essentially, you end up with many parallel bureaucracies, whereas if you have the government administer aid, you have one big bureaucracy.
This is much more efficient because you don't have to duplicate as many of these roles and occupations as you do when you have many private charities.
Therefore, you're able to devote more of your every single dollar that is available for that charity to actually helping people, rather than paying administrators and paying for people to work in an office in new york when, really, you want to be helping people with HIV in rwanda or whatever you're spending your money on.
So, because of this efficiency, we think that it would always be better for governments to focus on administering aid directly rather than administering aid through NGOs.
And I'm sure the other side is going to talk about NGOs that do things governments just can't do, and they'll probably talk about groups like medecins sans frontieres and other groups like that that do a really great job but, ultimately, most NGOs are actually terrible.
They waste lots of money, they don't actually help anyone, and they're just a vanity project for individuals in charge.
And even famous NGOs like the red cross are notoriously very inefficient.
So don't let the successes of a couple of groups, like doctors without borders, distract you from the fact that most NGOs are actually terrible, and governments would have to try really hard to be worse than NGOs are.
Our second argument is that the tradeoff with citizens' well-being is unfair.
We think that, ultimately, governments have a moral duty to be efficient with their money, because people die when they're not.
Ultimately, governments have to choose to fund lifesaving operations, to provide for people who are disabled, to educate children, and all of these other things with a limited amount of money.
We think that it would be irresponsible and even unethical to devote that money to helping NGOs when you could be using it to save people's lives in your own country.
Now, you might think that this goes against what I said about government subsidizing people abroad directly, but I think that if voters really want to have foreign aid, then you still have an obligation to do that in the most efficient way so that you have fewer tradeoffs with the well-being of your own citizens.
So, actually, this is completely consistent with our first point and a logical extension of it.
If your people support helping those who are less fortunate than they are around the globe, then you need to do it in the most cost-efficient way possible.
And our final argument is about backlash.
If you subsidize NGOs, many of your citizens will resent this: one, because they don't want to spend lots of money abroad, and two, because they'll see you funneling money to the very wealthy, privileged people who run NGOs rather than to needy people in your own country.
This will be seen more as a donation to the high society types who tend to run big, non-government organizations, rather than a donation to directly helping people in need.
And because, oftentimes, people who run NGOs have close personal connections to people in government, I think many citizens will see this as corrupt and resent it for that reason.
And indeed, I think it often is corrupt, and many times you'll have people giving to NGOs that their family members run and things like that.
For all these reasons, we should not subsidize humanitarian aid.
Thank you.