We should not abolish the american jobs act.
Most of tim's speech relies on the idea that we should abolish the american jobs act because the country has already recovered from the recession and because the government programs that dealt with the recession weren't perfectly successful, but I'm going to explain to you why the act still serves a purpose in today's america.
Our first argument is that a good economy doesn't mean that unemployed people need less help.
Tim is correct to point out that unemployment is now below five percent.
According to the official unemployment metrics, it's actually dramatically higher than that because they've changed how it's calculated to make the numbers look better.
But that aside, we tell you that for people who are unemployed, it doesn't really matter how good the rest of the economy is doing or how well, I should say.
For people who are unemployed, they still need a way to live, a way to get insurance, a way to pay their mortgage or their rent and provide for their families, so those people still need unemployment benefits.
Now the united states has never been very generous with benefits for people, either from their employers or from the government, but we think that the american jobs act was a step in the right direction in terms of giving people more time to look for a job and more time to get back on their feet.
If people are struggling to make basic ends meet, they're going to have a harder time looking for a good job that can help them to get back on their feet and contribute as much to the economy.
They're going to be scrambling for any work they can get and end up underemployed, which is something that we saw happen a lot during the recession.
We think that by continuing the american jobs act, you give people more time to look for good work, and this is really what everyone wants: is for people to, first of all, be able to get a similar job to the one they lost, so that they can keep their standard of living but also continue contributing as much as possible to the GDP so that they can be a productive member of society.
Our second argument then is about why we think that the right to work is implicit in a society that requires work.
Tim basically says that there is no right to be protected from unemployment, but I think that this is silly for a few reasons.
First of all, where do rights come from?
Well, they could exist in nature, like one's right to life, I suppose, but clearly the labor system we have today isn't natural or doesn't exist in nature, so rights having to do with work don't come from nature.
And they could come from god, I suppose, but as I recall, the bible doesn't say much about unemployment insurance.
So I think what we're left with is the idea of rights by convention, that is rights that people agree exist.
And I think that if you have a society where people agree that everyone has to work, which is basically modern western society, then you have to give people the opportunity to find work.
It would seem very perverse to have a society where people are required to be employed for their entire adult life and then not give those people an opportunity to seek out employment.
Now the other side might say that people can find employment even without the american jobs act, but the point remains that this is something that facilitates you to find a better job.
It makes this something that people are actually able to devote time and resources to.
So I think that inasmuch as people are required to work, we need to take more steps like the american jobs act to help them to get work, rather than just punish them for being unemployed as though this were some sort of moral failure on their part, which I think is a holdover from a much earlier part of american history when this kind of puritan work ethic pervaded our society.
But we can be better than that now, and we should be better than that now.
And that means helping people in their time of need, like unemployment, and letting them get back on their feet so that they're able to help others.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish the american jobs act.
Thank you.