We should not abolish primary elections.
We think that in the united states, and in other countries where this might be in use as well, that we should continue to elect our candidates from within the party before we go on to general elections.
We have three arguments for our side this morning.
The first is that this prevents control of the party by elites.
Let's talk for a second about the history of primaries.
In the early twentieth century, the parties chose their candidates by having a meeting of party leaders to decide who would run in what district.
So say, in new york city we might have ten or twenty congressional races, a group of republican leaders in new york city would get together and decide who was going to run in what district in new york city.
So ultimately you had a handful of mostly men, mostly white, mostly very wealthy people, choosing who was going to run.
And it's no coincidence that as a result, even in neighborhoods with lots of ethnic minorities, you had all-white candidates being run, people from harvard or very wealthy schools and very privileged backgrounds running, even to represent working class people.
Primaries resolved this tension between the representatives and the people, because in order to get elected in a primary, you have to appeal to your base.
So if you're running in an all-black neighborhood in new york city, from a very downtrodden economic perspective, it's less likely that you'll get some white lawyer who went to harvard or yale as their representative, and more likely that you would get someone who's from that area, or who really understands the plight of the people who live in that region, and can help them better because they're actually more sympathetic towards them and understand what these people really need.
So we think that primaries give more power to people and this facilitates them getting better representation, and representation by people more similar to themselves.
Our second argument is that primaries ensure that the candidates we get are actually capable of running in an election.
Let's imagine you had a candidate who had done something really bad and covered it up in the past.
If this person runs in a primary, then all of their opponents in the primary have an incentive to find out about their past.
So if you have a lot of dirty laundry or skeletons in the closet, it's all going to come out during the primary process.
As a result, when you get to the general election, most of your drawbacks will already be known, and your opponents won't be able to reveal some big secret that will derail your entire candidacy.
This is really good for the parties, because by having battle tested candidates effectively, they can ensure that the people they get don't have some secret drawback that will ultimately cause them to lose the election.
We think that this also promotes more transparency and better access to information for the voters, because this information comes out sooner.
So it's not only good for the party, it's also good for the voters to make an accurate decision about the candidates.
And our third point is about popular support.
Namely, if you got rid of primary elections, we think that there would be outcry and backlash from the general public.
It would be seen as very elitist, because effectively you would be taking power away from the american people and giving it to party elites.
Ultimately, we think this would cause people to turn away from a party that implemented this, or to have less of a reason to vote in general.
There's already a general sentiment in the US, and many other democracies, that it doesn't matter who you vote for, because the people in power are ultimately more beholden to big business, or the super rich and powerful, than to the people.
And if you take away the ability of the people to choose their own representatives using primaries and give that to elite party leaders, you only make this more true and disincentivize voter turnout even more.
So for all of these reasons, we should not end primary elections.
Thank you.