We should prohibit international adoption.
So what we're talking about in this debate is largely going to be people in wealthy countries like britain or america adopting children from less wealthy countries like sudan or china.
We think that this should be prohibited by the governments of the less wealthy countries where these children would be adopted from.
We're agnostic about the laws in the more wealthy country where the parents would be located.
Three arguments for our side this evening.
First, international adoption is a major cause of the loss of human capital.
Recognize that the children who are being adopted to other countries would otherwise have stayed and worked in their home country.
So if your say sudan and you have thousands of children being adopted by europeans and americans, those are children who later don't go on to work in your economy.
So we think that international adoption ultimately means that you lose out on workers, on students, on people who could contribute to your society.
Therefore it's in your best interest to prohibit this practice so that those people remain and contribute to the growth of your own country.
This is particularly true when you have children being adopted who are part of a minority ethnic group.
For instance if you had one tribe that disproportionately had children being adopted by americans or europeans we think it's likely that that group would face undue harm from this adoption process because they would lose out on even more human capital relative to the rest of the population.
So we think that there's a compelling interest to prevent these children from being adopted abroad so that they remain and work for their community and their country which ultimately will make everyone in the country better off due to the capital that they provide through their labor.
Our second argument is that we think this commodifies and fetishizes the adopted children.
What we mean by this is that a huge business is going to rise up around international adoption.
We see this is already the case between countries like russia and america.
There are a lot of businesses which exist to help americans adopt russian babies.
What this means is that the children aren't being treated as individuals by the adoption agency.
They're a source of money and all of the children are kind of lumped in as interchangeable as long as it ultimately makes the adoption agency money.
Since the parents most often never meet the children before they travel or before the children are sent to america or to europe, that means that they are dehumanized and not treated as individuals.
Matches are made between children and parents without any consideration of the individual needs of these children because the companies are basically profit seeking and just see them as a source of money.
At that point we think that the adoptions that are made are going to be poor matches and that many of these children will end up being sent back to their home country and feeling abandoned or put into homes that are not loving and supportive.
It would have been better in that case to keep them in their home country we think where the very least the community is more likely to be supportive.
Our third argument is about the harms that international adoption does to domestic children.
And I guess here we're thinking about the considerations you would have to take in the wealthier country and why we think it's wrong to have these international adoptions.
Recognize that the main driver of international adoptions is not that there's a shortage of orphans or foster children in america or in europe, it's that people only want to adopt small babies.
They don't want to adopt older children because there are stereotypes that those children have behavioral issues or because they want to mold these babies in their own image.
What that means is that because there is a huge pool of babies internationally, older children in these countries don't get adopted who otherwise would have if there were no babies available.
Because people would still adopt, they would just have to adopt older children at that point.
So we think that this is grossly unfair to those children who then lose out on the ability to have a family, to be adopted and to live a better life.
So for these reasons we should prohibit international adoption.
Thank you.