We should abandon online dating services.
So, by we should abandon, I mean to say that, as individuals, all of us should choose to stop using these services.
We think that things like online websites, where people create dating profiles, or apps that let you swipe through people in your area are the types of services that we're talking about.
So with that in mind, we have a few arguments for our side about why we should abandon these online dating services.
The first is that they encourage us to objectify people.
When you're looking through a list of people on an app on your phone, you're not really thinking of them as individuals.
Consider how it's different when you meet someone in person versus when you see someone in an app.
If you see someone in an app or on a website, you're likely to think only about their appearance, their job, and whether you think that they're good, based on those perspectives.
You don't have any human connection.
It's kind of like how you buy a television.
The same way that you might go to a website to look at the statistics about a certain TV and see whether it's specifications are good and if it'll fit on your wall, you're now looking for a girlfriend or a boyfriend the same way.
You're thinking " oh, well that person's job isn't very good, " or " he's too tall, " or " she's too fat, " that kind of thing, and not actually thinking about them as individuals.
On the other hand, when we meet people in person, we tend to have a more human response to them.
We see that maybe this person has a really good sense of humor, maybe they have similar values to you, maybe they grew up in the same area that you did and you have some connection relating to that, and it's unlikely that you're going to see many of these connections online.
Even if these services are really good and they help you to see some of these connections, it'll never be as holistic as the picture you get in person, so it will always encourage you to objectify people and break them down to the numbers rather than see them as an individual.
And we think that that's likely to lead to shallow and superficial relationships, because they're founded on a shallow and superficial basis.
Our second argument is that people are likely to be unsatisfied when they use online dating.
What do I mean by this?
If you're on a website where there are millions of members all looking for a relationship, it's probably really difficult to realize when you have a good thing.
Let's say you've been going out with a guy for a couple of weeks and you think you like him, but now you've matched with a couple of other people on the site and you want to give them a chance as well.
So you stop talking to this guy as much and move on to other people because he wasn't perfect.
But mister or missus perfect doesn't exist.
We think that people are likely to ignore the good in the interest of the perfect, and ultimately to be unsatisfied because of that, whereas when you meet people in person, it's less likely that you'll always be looking for the next best thing to come along, because you're not actively scrolling through lists of hundreds of people, you're just organically meeting new individuals.
So we think that it's unlikely people will be satisfied from these dating sites and ultimately that it would be harmful to your happiness to use them therefore.
And our final point is about why you shouldn't trust the companies that make these services.
If you use a program that tracks your location in order to match you with people, then presumably they're storing that information.
And remember, if these dating services are free, then you're not the customer you are the product.
The reason why they can offer these expensive services for free is because they're selling your information to advertisers or other purchasers.
So, ultimately, when you use these services, you're setting yourself up to be targeted by other companies who want to get something out of you.
We think that, in general, people should be conservative with their personal information online, trying not to give away everything about themselves, where they live, their interest, what they like, because when you do that, ultimately someone is going to sell that information, and you're going to be harassed more and more by advertisers, which we already see is a problem today.
For all these reasons, we should abandon online dating.
Thank you.