We should not subsidize ecotourism.
I'm going to talk about how this degrades the environment, how the benefits accrue only to the wealthy, and how this is a poor use of state funds.
So our first point is about how this degrades the environment.
Sam tries to tell you that this ecotourism will take place with no environmental harm.
I think that's quite unfair because this is impossible in the real world.
Even if you have areas that are controlled by permits or that only limited people can visit, just the act of having people in an area means that you're going to have some amount of contamination by human presence.
For instance, I visited a national park in malaysia where you have to get a permit and there's only a few hundred permits every year so it's very pristine compared to anywhere I had ever been but a ranger there told me that in the last ten years it's actually began to go downhill and that before it was opened up to the public it was even more pristine.
So while you and I may see this as untouched wilderness, people who are actually experts can see subtle indicators that the environment is being harmed simply by human presence but moreover, the areas around these protected areas will decline.
If you suddenly start paying for people to go to say yosemite park in america, then there's going to be a lot more infrastructure propping up around the edge of yosemite and areas that are undeveloped nature right now but not included in the park will all become this kind of gross suburban sprawl to accommodate the tourists.
So ultimately, we think that this flies in the face of the environmentalist goals that sam proclaims in his speech.
Our second argument is that the benefits of this only accrue to the rich.
First of all, let's think about who makes money when there's more people visiting these sites.
People who own businesses like hotels, like restaurants, are likely to be the ones making money off of more people visiting these sites.
But the days of lots of mom and pop businesses are largely gone.
It's probably going to be chain hotels like marriott's and hilton's opening up and chain restaurants opening up as well so that the money that comes in isn't really going to be going to local people who are going to be working low wages as desk clerks and waitresses, it's going to be accumulating for shareholders in chicago or london and ultimately not do any benefit to ordinary people on the ground as sam tries to claim but what's more, even with subsidies only rich people will get to enjoy the benefits of these vacations.
After all, if you're a single mom with two kids working two jobs it doesn't matter if the price of a trip to a national park gets cut in half, you still can't afford it because you started at zero.
Ultimately, only people with enough money and time to be able to travel are going to be able to benefit from the access to these subsidies.
So we think that this is basically a huge government spending program that only benefits the rich which leads nicely to my third and final argument about why this is a poor use of government funds.
Remember that state funds are fungible.
If the government doesn't spend money on policy a they can spend it on policy b.
What this means is that all government spending in one area trades off with government spending in other areas.
So if you spend on ecotourism, that's money that you're not spending on providing baby formula for poor mothers.
It's money that you're not spending on rebuilding public schools.
It's money that's not going to areas affected by natural disasters.
We think that there are so many things that are more important and a better use of our funds than this ecotourism, that ultimately it's unethical to spend money on something like this.
If you think about the utilitarian calculus surrounding this policy, ultimately no lives are being saved by this.
So we think that it would always be better to spend on things like welfare and healthcare programs that save people's lives rather than giving me a nicer christmas holiday.
For all these reasons, we should not subsidize ecotourism.
Thank you.