We should not increase drug testing.
On our side, we would argue that, if anything, fewer jobs should use drug testing, that people shouldn't be drug tested in many instances when they are right now in the status quo.
So with that in mind, we have a few arguments for our side today.
The first is that we think that there's a double standard when it comes to drug testing.
Certain drugs have been criminalized.
In the US, that means being put on schedule one, and there are similar schemes in other developed countries around the world.
So drugs like marijuana are illegal, while drugs like nicotine or alcohol are illegal.
What this means is that communities which are more likely to use marijuana than alcohol or nicotine, drugs which are more harmful, and alcohol, in particular, which is actually more detrimental to your ability to drive or work and is more likely to make you commit a crime, compared to these drugs, marijuana is punished and they aren't.
We think that this is a huge double standard that's designed to target certain communities.
We think that, in particular, people from african american or afro-caribbean backgrounds have a culture that traditionally has used marijuana more often, and therefore that we're singling out and punishing those groups unfairly when we implement drug testing, while their anglo-saxon co-workers are able to drink themselves to oblivion on the clock and get away with it completely scot-free because there's just a different standard that they're held to.
We think that that's unacceptable and that the drug testing that we have right now is problematic, and it would only be worse if it were increased.
Our second argument, somewhat related, is that this would worsen mass incarceration.
The reason why the united states has the world's largest prison population isn't just that we all run around shooting each other and yelling yee-haw all the time.
It's also that we put people in jail for everyday drug offenses.
If you implement more drug testing, then more people will be caught using drugs like marijuana, or MDMA, or LSD, that aren't actually harmful to anybody, and therefore they would go to jail.
As a result of this, I think that you would see more people from disadvantaged communities being sent to jail, such as young black men or people from a lower economic status, and that this would only worsen the problems we have right now, where prison conditions are really poor and where these private prison companies are raking in tons and tons of money at the expense of the taxpayer.
So, this would actually ruin millions of people's lives by sending them to jail and exacerbate an already existing problem.
If anything, we need to cut back on drug testing so that even if people are breaking a stupid law, they're not being punished for it in this ridiculously draconian fashion.
But our final argument is that this is a needless expense.
A couple of parts of this: first, drug testing isn't free.
It's relatively easy to test for marijuana but accurate testing, the kind used for government jobs or a lot of corporate jobs, is actually quite expensive because it's done in a lab.
We think that, first of all, when the government does this, such as when they arrest people or when they do a hire, that it's a waste of taxpayer money, because most people can smoke weed when they're at home and not have a worse ability to do their job on the clock.
Similarly, most people aren't committing a crime because they smoked a joint.
We think that, ultimately, it's a waste of the taxpayers' money.
And then in a private corporation, we think that corporations are being overly excessively spendthrifty when they use these drug tests, that either what happens is they cheap out and get inaccurate tests, in which case, they are convicting or sending people to jail or firing people who don't deserve to be punished, or they're spending a lot of money on this and it's hindering their business's ability to spend money on other more important things.
So, ultimately, because of the double standard I explained, because this would worsen the existing problem with mass incarceration, and because this is a misuse of both public and private funds, we should not increase drug testing.
Thank you.