We should end the use of economic sanctions.
By this we mean that countries like the US and european union countries should stop cutting off trade and access to international resources to poor more vulnerable countries in order to get them to change policy.
The most egregious example of economic sanctions in recent years was the oil for food program in iraq in the nineteen nineties.
During this period iraq was only able to export oil in exchange for food.
This led to dictator saddam hussein coming up with egregious workarounds that led to half a million people starving due to a lack of food in the country.
The private market was no longer allowed to bring food into the country, it could only come in if saddam hussein was willing to do the right thing.
And surprise surprise, this murderous dictator was not.
As I said, half a million people, most of them under the age of eighteen, starved to death in iraq in the nineteen nineties, whereas previously there had been no food insecurity in the country.
And it is entirely due to economic sanctions led by the united states.
Our first argument, quite simply, is that is unethical because it instrumentalizes the people who live in a country.
The effectiveness of sanctions relies on making the people who live in a country so desperate, that they will rise up and force their government to change its policy.
This might mean starving enough iraqis that they're willing to rise up against saddam hussein, something that didn't happen before the american invasion, or it might mean for instance preventing iranians from importing medicine that they desperately need in order to try to get them to vote for different politicians.
Either way we don't think that starving people or denying them access to medical technology is ever going to be acceptable.
And this is the only way that sanctions work.
Supporters of sanctions try to say that they're targeted at the elite.
But that kind of sanction has never been effective.
Freezing russian oligarchs bank accounts doesn't make them change their government policies, it just makes them double down to try to earn their money back.
And ultimately they know that they can still get their money pretty easily if they just resign from their post.
The only effective type of sanction is the kind that puts people out to the streets for a revolution because they can't corn to feed their children.
And we think this is disgusting.
It treats people as just a means to an end for foreign policy in highly developed countries, who oftentimes have no empathy for the people who are suffering.
The western news media is extremely complicit in this by refusing to show the effects on real people that economic sanctions have.
This is evil.
It's just as evil as when the british would starve people in india during the colonial period.
And it's fundamentally no different.
But aside from the extremely severe moral concerns I have about this, we also think that the use of sanctions is fundamentally arbitrary and that this leads to countries having more extreme behavior.
Right now for instance we see that sanctions are aren't actually applied to the worst human rights abusers, they're just applied to the countries that western countries want to have more power over.
They are very literally a tool for imperialism.
Right now venezuela is not one of the world's worst human rights abusers, despite what american news will tell you.
Venezuela doesn't have death squads or concentration camps.
It's just a slightly less democratic country than most western forms.
Meanwhile, venezuela is being sanctioned while western countries are pouring money on assad, who used chemical weapons on his own people, because he listens to them and supports them whereas the venezuelan government has refused to kowtow to the american government.
Similarly, countries with large manufacturing bases like china are able to do whatever they want while a more isolated country like venezuela can be bullied by the international community.
Sanctions are not applied to the worst offenders, they're not applied to countries that act especially badly.
Oftentimes they're applied to countries like iran that just want to defend themselves from aggressive neighbors, and they're being punished arbitrarily by western powers because they refuse to be part of this new imperialist system.
We don't think western countries have any right to dictate policy in other countries and therefore that sanctions are inherently unjust.
For these reasons, and many others I don't have the time to say right now, we must end the use of sanctions.
Thank you.