Israel should not end the blockade on the gaza strip.
By this we mean to say that israel should continue to refuse to allow europe and other parts of the globe to send resources and supplies to the gaza strip and that it should tightly control the borders thereof.
We have three arguments for our side today.
The first is that hamas has acted in bad faith in all of its agreements with israel.
We'll talk more in a minute about the implications of hamas being the elected government of israel, but what's important right now is that the israeli government hasn't just unilaterally decided to impose these restrictions.
Over the many years since israel withdrew from the gaza strip and forced jewish settlers to move out of the area, hamas has refused to abide by agreements that they entered into with israel.
They've continued to send fighters through secret tunnels to attack IDF soldiers, they've continued to shoot rockets at tel aviv, and ultimately to act in a completely unacceptable way for an international actor.
Therefore, because hamas is the legitimate controlling authority of the gaza strip and because hamas is choosing to act as though they were at war with israel, israel is certainly under no obligation to open their borders to the gaza strip.
As long as hamas continues to attack israel and to violate international agreements, they ought not be allowed to participate in open trade with israel.
No group of people have a right to trade with any other group of people.
No province has a right to open borders with any other province.
And as long as hamas continues to act the way that they do, there's no reason why israel has to trade with them or allow others to do so.
Our second argument is that there is a collective responsibility for terrorism.
Now this will make american liberals' hairs curl when they hear the word collective responsibility, but what rachel kind of glides over in her speech is the fact that hamas were elected in internationally observed elections.
The people of the gaza strip want hamas to be their government, and we think that people are responsible for the actions of their government, right?
It's not like we're picking on a country that has some sort of absolute monarch who makes decisions on their behalf.
The people of gaza have shown their support for hamas time and time again.
They could have elected fatah, and they would have all the same benefits that the west bank does, compared to gaza.
But instead, they have chosen to support hamas.
What does that mean?
It means that when hamas chooses to kill innocent people in tel aviv, to attack israeli soldiers, to provoke war, to violate cease fires, to import weapons instead of food, to hide fighters in elementary schools and hospitals, that ultimately the only people responsible are the people of gaza.
It is completely unacceptable for the gazan people to act in the way that they have by electing this government and therefore, we think that they bear the responsibility and deserve to bear the punishments for their actions.
Our third and final argument is about the obligations and duties of the israeli government.
Every liberal democracy has a duty to its citizens and the residents of their country.
Recognize that gaza is not part of israel.
According to the nineteen sixty seven borders, it's not part of israel, and moreover, the israelis don't treat it as though it were part of their country as they do west bank.
What this means is that the israeli government does not have obligations to the people of gaza.
They have their own government, namely, hamas, that represents them.
As long as hamas continues to represent a threat to innocent people living in israeli cities, like tel aviv, we simply don't think that the israeli government is upholding its duties to its citizens if they don't protect them from hamas missiles.
Now, the iron dome is well and good but ultimately, the sanctions will be what ends hamas control over the gaza strip.
Therefore, we think it ought be continued.
For all these reasons, we should not end the blockade on the gaza strip.
Thank you.