We should ban fishing.
So when we say this we're not really talking about your granddad and his friends going out to the pond to catch some bass, we're thinking more about the kind of large scale aquaculture that takes place around the world right now.
Fishing is a major industry for many countries, especially island nations or coastal towns, but we think that ultimately it needs to be banned.
The way that we would do this would be a gradual phase-out by refusing to issue new permits and by gradually restricting the areas where people are allowed to fish until the industry is no longer able to exist.
So our first argument is that we need to let fisheries recover if we're going to be able to have fish in the future.
Many of the world's largest fisheries such as cod fisheries in the northern atlantic have completely collapsed in the last century.
The amount of wild fish is much smaller than it was in nineteen hundred and this is due to over exploitation.
Every country demands that they be allowed to fish as much as they want to.
Treaties are made that exist entirely to promote the egos of certain countries like iceland rather than consider the fact that some countrys' fishing is much more detrimental than other countrys' fishing just because of the types of natural resources that are available to that country.
But we would tell you that all human beings have an equal claim to the world's bounty and that because most fisheries lie outside of national waters that we need to preserve them not only for other countries but we need to preserve them for future generations.
If we continue at our current pace, in three hundred years no one will be able to eat fish and we think that it's unacceptable to take away those natural resources from future generations when they have every much right to them as we do ultimately therefore we think we need to look fisheries recover by phasing out fishing for several decades so that they are able to come back to a level where they can be sustainably harvested.
Our second argument is that fishing is just the worst way to gather food for people.
First on an economic level, seafood is extremely expensive.
It's true that you can buy cheap seafood but that's because all of the externalities have been passed on to the public and away from you.
If you took into account the damages that fishing does to fish populations, the damages that it doesn't terms of pollution, what it does to endangered species, no one would be able to afford seafood except for the very wealthy.
It is by far the least economical type of food.
Ultimately therefore we think that it needs to be phased out because if people won't internalize the costs then we ought simply prevent them from foisting those costs off onto others by continuing to fish when it is in no way sustainable or acceptable.
But it's also by far the least environmentally friendly way to access food.
Most people don't eat any wild animals except for seafood and someone can say oh well we have farmed tilapia but we're fine with that we're talking about harvesting wild fish like tuna and ultimately there's no way to make harvesting wild food sustainable for seven billion peoples at the current rate of consumption therefore it needs to be phased out because it's not practical.
And our third point is that we need to ready communities for climate change.
In our world we phase out fishing over a matter of time so that communities that rely on fishing can either go away as people will immigrate to other areas or change their primary industry over to something more sustainable.
In the other world where fishing continues unregulated climate change is going to suddenly wipe out fisheries or gradually completely eliminate it as an option and people will be left in the same situation with no period to adjust.
So in our world we force people to adjust to the new world that is coming because of climate change, one in which fishing will no longer be possible in most places where it is today and therefore we think that this is actually the more humane thing for those communities that will be affected because we let them better adapt.
So for all of these reasons, we should ban fishing.
Thank you.