The free market should be protected.
By this we mean that government should intervene in order to prevent anti-market behavior from private actors.
We think that for instance, anti-trust laws should be upheld in order to prevent any one actor from gaining a huge monopoly and using it to prevent free exchange and fair contracts and the like.
For instance, we think that bell telephone, which had a phone monopoly in the united states for many decades, actually posed a threat to the free market because they were able to use their monopoly status to prevent any other company from competing in the american telephone market.
We're going to talk about three pillars of what we see as the free market system, and how we ought protect them.
We think that the first pillar that you need to consider is the possibility of fair competition.
The free market relies on the idea that the best company, or the best product, or the best idea will win out over others because people will choose to consume it.
But obviously this is only true if they're able to compete on somewhat equal footings.
Even if I invented a very good toaster oven, if there were a company that had a monopoly on toaster ovens that prevented any store from selling mine, then no one would be able to have better toast as a result of my product.
So that wouldn't really be a free market.
We think therefore, that you need to have things like anti-trust laws that prevent monopolistic behavior.
If for instance one company is very good at making mattresses and they use that to leverage the selling of their toasters by threatening not to sell mattresses unless stores also sell their toaster exclusively, then you don't really have any competition.
Ultimately we need to prevent trust from existing so that people are able to bring new ideas to the market.
One of the great strengths of the free market is that you have innovation and an incentive for people to work hard.
But monopolistic behavior prevents innovation because once you have a monopoly there's no incentive to provide a better product.
We saw this with bell telephone.
American telephony was far behind western europe or other parts of the developed world for many decades because there was no incentive to improve once big bell had their monopoly.
Our second argument is about protecting contracts.
One of the most fundamental parts of the free market system is that contracts are enforceable.
What does this mean?
If I say that I will sell you a certain number of toasters then you can guarantee that I have to do that or that you will be compensated by the courts.
You're able to go to a civil court and ultimately get what you're owed according to a fair freebie signed contract.
But what happens when one party is much more powerful than any other?
Ultimately monopolistic companies, which we argue are likely to emerge without regulation, would be able to enforce unfair contracts.
They would have have so much more bargaining power than anyone with whom they bargained that no one would be able to be sure that contracts would actually be fulfilled.
They would be able to bury people in court to prevent things from ever being heard in court and ultimately prevent contracts from underlying the system.
In doing so you would make it much more difficult to do business and actually undermine the free market.
So we think it's essential that the state intervene in order to ensure that contracts are fair and that they're actually upheld regardless of the power of one of the parties involved.
Our final point is about encouraging exchange.
In order for the free market to succeed people have to think that it's worth their while to invest in the market and ultimately to participate therein.
If there's no way for people to make money because of monopolistic or anti-competitive behavior by certain actors, then ultimately people are going to exchange with each other in other ways outside of the general market.
This will make it more difficult for out groups such as ethnic minorities to participate in free exchange.
So we think it's important that the government encourage people to participate in the market system in order to ensure its long term success and in order to ensure access by all different groups.
For all of these reasons the free market should be protected.
Thank you.