We should not place a tax on infant formula.
On our side we're going to explain why infant formula should be exempt from sales tax and other taxes.
One observation that I'd like to make before I proceed with this speech, is that groceries are generally exempt from sales tax anyway in most of the US.
I can't speak for every state but certainly in north carolina, in massachusetts, in california, groceries are taxed either at a much lower rate or not at all compared to other consumer goods.
With this in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that it's important not to tax infant formula if we're not taxing other types of food.
It seems very perverse to tax something that is a necessity for babies while we don't put a tax on onion rings and other luxury goods for adults.
At the end of the day, we think that there should be no special taxation on infant formula and that indeed all groceries probably should be exempt from sales tax.
I'll talk more about that in just a minute.
But given the groceries are exempt from sales tax in many states at least, we think that baby formula should be considered a grocery.
Certainly you buy it at the grocery store and it fills the same roles other groceries so it seems clear to me that for that reason alone it should be exempt.
But our second argument is that it's beneficial to remove all barriers to mothers who want to buy infant formula.
The other side might tell you that infant formula is worse for babies than breast feeding, but I don't think that's really the point here.
Most mothers who are willing and able have probably already done their research and understand that this isn't the ideal, but some factor in their lifestyle makes it a necessity.
Some people don't produce enough breast milk to feed their baby adequately.
Some people have a schedule or a job that keeps them from doing so.
Sometimes a gay couple adopts a baby and neither of them has breast milk.
So I think it's obvious that there are many situations in which parents might not be able to use breast feeding to provide for their baby's nutrition and in that case since we want to make it as easy as possible for people to raise healthy happy babies, into healthy happy children, into healthy happy workers and citizens, it's clear that we should remove all barriers to infant formula.
Indeed we already give infant formula away to many working class people through the wic program stands for women infant and children, I believe.
So you can see that there's already a trend in public policy or in government policy to provide for infants uniquely and I think that this tax is just one other way that we can do so.
Our final argument is that a tax on infant formula is always going to be regressive.
First, what does it mean for a tax to be regressive?
If you imagine a person who has one dollar and a person who has fifty dollars, for the person who has one dollar that dollar is worth a lot more to them than any one dollar is to the person with fifty dollars and I think we can all probably see this in our lives.
If you've ever been broke or in a tough state before in your life, you probably didn't spend a lot of money on snacks or coffee or eating out.
Where as if you're doing pretty well and you have a job and some money in the bank you probably don't think twice about spending a dollar for a cup of coffee at the corner store.
So you can see that this marginal theory of value where every dollar is worth marginally less than the one that came before it is true.
Sales taxes are regressive because somebody who is scraping by on a hundred dollars a week has to pay the same level of tax as elon musk and bill gates and we can see that that's not fair because that's a much higher rate of tax on the low income person than it is on the billionaire and we see that a sales tax on infant formula or on anything else is regressive because the rate is the same for everyone regardless of the marginal value of a dollar.
For all these reasons, we should not tax infant formula.
Thank you.