We should not fight against illegal immigration.
Now I'm not saying that we should just throw open the borders of the united states or the european union and let anyone who wants to move, but I do think that massive spending on things like border security are misplaced and that it would be better to allocate resources to helping the people who do end up in our countries rather than fighting to keep them out in really dangerous situations.
Our first argument is fundamentally that economic refugees are no less deserving of a spot in our countries than traditional refugees.
So what is an economic refugee?
Most people who come to the US or who illegally come to europe do so because of a lack of economic opportunity.
Many of these people come from sub-saharan africa to the EU or from central america to the united states.
Many of these people grew up in cities that have murder rates so high that they're as dangerous as war zones.
Moreover, many of these people because of the after effects of conflict are unable to get secure employment and therefore their families are dying.
We think that ultimately if people are going without basic necessities, if people are dying, or if their children are at risk, if people are suffering from very violent conditions, that they are fundamentally able to become a refugee.
Now whether that's because bashar al-assad is killing their family or because some gangster in central america is killing their family, we don't think really makes a big difference to these people.
Their suffering is the same.
Their plight is the same.
So why should we prioritize the one group over the other?
We think that ultimately because the people who are illegally immigrating tend to be those who have no other option, that they ought be eligible for some sort of protection and status in our countries even if we're not able to give them full citizenship or if the help that we do give to them is temporary.
These people, at the end of the day, are still human beings and still deserve our compassion and assistance and we are very much able to give it.
The US, britain, germany, and other countries are so fabulously wealthy and we have a duty to help others with that wealth rather than just hoard it for ourselves like smaug the dragon in the hobbit.
So our second argument is that we think that fighting illegal immigration involves massive amounts of cruelty to people who are just trying to get a better life.
If you look at the way that people actually fight illegal immigration, most often it's going to come at a massive expense of human suffering.
For instance, in the american southwest there are federal agents who go around in trucks and basically stop any latino looking person and demand to see their papers and if they can't produce them they put them in a detention center.
Does that sound like a western liberal democracy to you?
Many people who are american citizens have been detained for not having proof of their american citizenship even though no white or black person would ever be asked to produce such proof, only latino people.
We think that this has led to a state of massive fear in these communities and also of racial hatred because due to the actions of these federal agents, many non-latino people in the community see all latinos as fundamentally illegal invaders of their country and that's the narrative that our government is pushing.
But moreover, consider that many of these people will be killed if they aren't able to get into the united states.
If they're sent back to their home countries many of these people will face absolute privation or even violence from their government because they illegally emigrated and furthermore, many of them are in extreme danger while they're in mexico or while they're traversing central america.
Similarly, many people risk their lives to cross turkey in order to get to the european union.
So we think that you're condemning these people to die if you send them home.
For all of these reasons, we should not fight against illegal immigration but we should be more humane towards these people coming to us for help.
Thank you.