We should end water fluoridation.
So water fluoridation is a process by which fluoride is added to the water so that people will be less likely to get dental cavities.
The idea is that by introducing fluoride into people's diet, ultimately their teeth will be healthier and less likely to decay over time.
In many countries fluoride is added to the public water at a central plant before it's distributed to people's houses.
In this way people don't really have a choice about whether they want fluoride in their water.
It's just automatically put there on their behalf.
We're not going to argue that fluoride is fundamentally unsafe.
We think that it's been well proven in the states and in europe that it is but we're going to make a few arguments for why it shouldn't be put in the tap water.
Our first argument is that people don't have any choice about whether or not they get fluoride in their tap water.
For most people, the tap is the source of all of their drinking water, at least in countries that are developed enough to offer fluoride.
Presumably in countries like turkey where people don't normally drink the water, there's no point in adding fluoride.
But with that in mind we tell you that people should have a reasonable expectation to pure drinking water.
It may be true that some people want fluoride but other people may not.
I'm not saying that this is a well informed choice.
Those people are probably ill informed or making a poor decision by choosing not to want fluoride, but we still think that that choice ought belong to those people.
At the end of the day we let people make stupid decisions all the time.
If people can drink coca cola even though it rots your teeth, we don't see why they should be forced to have chemicals in their water.
We think that ultimately people who want fluoride are likely to get it from brushing their teeth, more on that in just a minute, and so people who don't want it should be allowed to make a choice about whether or not they want to consume it.
At the end of the day even if we think this is a stupid choice, we shouldn't prevent people from making their own decisions just because we disagree with them.
In liberal democracies and other highly developed countries we ought instead defer to letting people make their own decisions even when there's some drawbacks such as a higher risk of cavities.
Our second argument is that there isn't much need for water fluoridation anymore nowadays.
This used to be much more important back before people brush their teeth as often or with as high a quality of toothpaste.
Nowadays if you go and buy toothpaste, your crest or your colgate or whatever is popular in your country from the pharmacist, that toothpaste has fluoride in it.
And all of the benefits that you get from water fluoridation are also accessed by brushing your teeth with fluoride toothpaste.
Basically you just need some exposure every day.
There's no benefit to drinking a few liters of fluoridated water as opposed to brushing your teeth with fluoridated toothpaste.
And since people are already doing that we think that it's superfluous to go ahead and put fluoride in the water.
More on that in just a moment.
But we think that also in regards to what we said earlier about choice, if people want to choose to use a fluoride free toothpaste, again, that may be a poor decision, but it ultimately ought be their decision.
We should let people control what they put into their own bodies.
Our third and final argument is that this is a poor use of government funds.
So recognize that we've already shown you that people would be getting fluoride already whether or not it's in the water because it's in their toothpaste.
At that point the government is spending money every year on something that doesn't actually do any good.
So it may be true that this isn't massively expensive.
We're not going to tell you that the US is spending billions of dollars on fluoride.
It isn't.
But all government money is fungible.
So we think that this money could be better spent on other public health programs instead.
Things like improving water quality more broadly or improving rural access to safe drinking water, for instance, are a trade-off with fluoridation.
This money could be spent in those ways and would ultimately benefit people more greatly than what we see as a benefit of water fluoridation.
So for all of these reasons we think that we should end water fluoridation.
Thank you.