We should protect internet privacy.
On our side, we're going to explain why internet privacy is important not only because individuals have an expectation of privacy, but also to limit tyranny and because of a democratic will for privacy.
What do we mean by internet privacy?
We think that governments and corporations should not be allowed to spy on consumers, that they shouldn't be able to secretly collect data and maintain huge databases of individuals' preferences and behavior on the internet.
Our first argument is about why people have a reasonable expectation of privacy on the internet.
In most democratic countries, you have a reasonable expectation to privacy in your home, that is to say that the government can't monitor what you're doing in your house without getting a warrant from a judge.
In the US, this goes back to the days of the british colonial period, when soldiers were stationed to people's houses and many people resented that, but we can also see that it's important for people to have privacy so that they can live their lives the way that they will.
For instance, in the early twentieth century, it was very stigmatized to be gay in almost every country in the world.
So the only way that people would be able to live their lives if they were gay would be because they had privacy in their own home.
We think that, similarly, many groups are discriminated against today, such as transgender people, and the only way that those people can live in relative safety and comfort is if they have privacy in the comfort of their own home.
We would argue that online privacy is just an extension of this principle.
People, generally speaking, access the internet and such a way that no one around them can see what they're doing.
It's a behavior that's very similar to reading in your home, so we think that this is more like the privacy of one's own home as opposed to the assumed public experience of being out in a physical public square.
If I go out on the street, I know that everyone can see me.
It's not the same if I'm online.
My neighbors, and my friends, and my family can't see what I'm doing unless I share it, so there should be an expectation of privacy the same way that there's an expectation of privacy in my home.
Our second argument is about why this is a way to limit tyranny.
Many governments around the world use online metadata to persecute people for their political beliefs.
During the arab spring, for instance, many dictators, like bashar al-assad, used data that they gathered from people's twitter posts in order to target members of the opposition.
Similarly, we see that in the past, many oppressive governments, like the east germans, have used secret police like the stasi to invade people's privacy.
The internet is just a new tool that these organizations could use.
While it's true that, right now, the US is probably the most famous government for spying, it's also true that countries like myanmar, and china, and iran try to use the internet to spy on their people.
We think that by making it harder to spy on people's internet history by making people have more privacy online, we will be able to thwart the efforts of these authoritarian governments to repress people because of their political beliefs.
And, finally, we think that there is a democratic will for online privacy.
This is an issue that almost all people support.
Everybody wants to have privacy online.
We think that the legitimacy of a government comes from acting on behalf of the people.
Governments don't get their legitimacy from any source except the idea that people believe in those governments.
So if there's a policy that almost everyone believes is just, like having online privacy, we think that the only just thing for a state to do is to implement that policy unless there's some compelling interest or reason not to, for instance, if it was going to hurt a minority group.
But that's not the case here, so it's clear that we need to implement online privacy because of this democratic will in favor of it.
For all of these reasons, we should protect internet privacy.
Thank you.