We should not legalize same-sex marriage.
We would argue that it would be a preferable situation to have people be allowed to enter into domestic partnerships rather than marriage as such.
And we think, as we'll explain in just a minute, that this applies to everyone, not just same-sex couples, but that because this is where most of the debate is taking place right now, we're willing to talk about same-sex couples in particular here.
So our first argument is that we should get rid of marriage as a whole.
We don't think that it's the government's place to get involved with whether or not people get married, and we don't think that people should have special legal status just because they've chosen to get married.
We think that the things that the government wants to incentivize, such as joint homeownership, could be done through a domestic partnership that's completely distinct from the cultural notion of marriage.
We think marriage should be left up entirely to religious institutions or cultural institutions and that there's no reason why the government needs to be involved at all.
So, if a methodist church wants to let gay couples get married and the catholic church doesn't, we think that the government should completely stay out of this and let it be up to those religious or even secular groups to determine who is allowed to get married in that institution's eyes.
We can still have things on our side of the house, like allowing someone spouse's to visit them in the hospital, but all of that could be managed through a domestic partnership.
This is similar to what the status quo was in many US states before gay marriage was legalized, and it's similar to the situation in some european countries right now.
We think that as long as people have the same access to government services, such as tax credits or home ownership, that there's no real legal discrimination taking place.
Therefore, the fight for same-sex marriage is a cultural battle, and we think that it's one that the government should stay out of.
It just isn't the government's place to tell religious institutions what they ought to do.
And when the government does so, it creates even more backlash against: one, the secular state, and two, the LGBT community, that's ultimately undermining that community and making everyone slightly worse off.
We can see this type of backlash in the US where a wave of anti-LGBT sentiment followed the legalization of gay marriage and led to legislation and new representatives being put into effect that are actually worse than what we had before in some cases.
And our second argument is that we think that this is harmful to the idea of the LGBT community.
One of the the primary goals of this community has been to get gay marriage in the past, but this really only affects a small subset of non-straight non-cis people.
Effectively, the most privileged queer people, gay men, are gaining access to something that they really want, marriage rights, while no one else is really gaining access to equal rights or equal treatment.
So we think that a lot of the political weight behind this movement is going to wither away once we see same-sex marriage go into effect, and this has certainly been true in the united states where since same-sex marriage went into effect, the LGBTQ movement has been much less prominent on television, in the media, relative to other social movements.
Part of that is that the most privileged members of that group are no longer interested in fighting for equal rights because they've got what they came there for.
We think that when everyone is united in fighting for social change, the LGBT movement is much more likely to help trans people, to help end bi-erasure, to help women, to help other groups that have suffered in the past, rather than just focus on one particular legal goal that only benefits a handful of its members.
So this undermines the idea that this LGBTQ movement is one big community, and instead leads to the idea that it's a series of distinct groups that don't have common interest.
And that means that the least privileged of those groups are unlikely to be able to achieve their ends.
So for all these reasons, we should not legalize same-sex marriage.
Thank you.