We should not nationalize the petroleum industry.
On our side, we're going to argue that this would lead to capital flight, that this would lead to government corruption, and that this would be really bad for a country's currency.
And we're talking about a generic liberal democracy rather than doing this in, say, the US, or britain, or canada, in particular.
So, first, let's talk about capital flight.
If you were to take an industry that is currently very profitable and private and nationalize it, other industries will be worried that you'll do the same thing to them.
So, in other words, if you were to nationalize the petroleum industry, then companies that produce steel, or that mine coal, or that extract other resources, or produce other goods in your country might be very worried that you would nationalize them as well, and for good reason.
The types of governments that are likely to nationalize the petroleum industry are also more likely to nationalize, say, the steel industry.
We think that at the end of the day, what this means is that those companies are going to move everything that they can out of your country to a safer location.
So they'll say, " hmm, this country is going to take away all of our capital so we'd better move it to a country like britain, with stronger private property protections that would never do this, " and then as a result, you're going to become, first of all, comparatively worse off relative to countries like britain or the US where this could never happen, and secondly, you're going to directly lose capital that you already have in your country, so your economy is going to contract.
We think that this would more than offset the benefits of higher taxation on this oil that you're directly producing.
Our second argument is that this will corrupt your government.
Right now, we think that most people who go into government do so because they believe in civil service.
There's just not a lot of money to be made as a civil servant in a liberal democracy, for the most part.
We also think that most liberal democracies have very low corruption or perception of corruption, except for a few developing democracies.
If, suddenly, you nationalize this oil industry, now there's this huge pot of money that anyone can dip their hands into by getting involved in the bureaucracy.
Rather than profit-seeking, greedy people going into private industry or private petroleum companies, now they're going to go into government and try to bilk out as much money as possible, so we think that you're attracting people to government for all the wrong reasons and that the entire government is likely to become more corrupt as a result.
Because if you have a very corrupt oil bureaucracy that's very influential since they bring in so much revenue, we think that that's likely to spread corruption to other bureaus and offices as well and to undermine this kind of authority that the government has in general.
And if a government is more corrupt, it's harder for people to access goods and services.
It's harder for people to democratically participate, because money talks more than votes now.
So we think that this is a real threat to democracies and one that we ought avoid by keeping money separate from power as much as possible.
And our final argument is that this is really dangerous for your currency.
So let's assume that this country isn't, you know, the united states or a member of the european union, and that they have their own currency that's not a major reserve currency.
What's likely to happen is the value of their currency will go way up because their government can now back it with oil and that this will make it more expensive to import anything from that country, because it's harder to buy things there.
If the value of the canadian dollar shoots way up, then it's more expensive to buy canadian grain, or steel, or anything else that they produce.
So this is likely to hurt your other industries aside from petroleum, and ultimately that could do damage to your economy that more than offsets the benefits of this additional revenue from oil.
And we saw something very much like this happen in the netherlands in the nineteen fifties, which is why they call this " dutch disease ".
For all of these reasons, we should not nationalize the petroleum industry.
Thank you.