We should not end affirmative action.
We believe that affirmative action still plays an important role in our society for three reasons: the first is that we think that the people receiving affirmative action have a desert claim to the help that they're receiving.
So what we mean by this is that the reason that people are receiving affirmative action is because they deserve help from society because of some harm that they have incurred from society.
For instance, when we prioritize accepting women into stem programs at universities we do so because women are being discriminated against and prevented from competing on an even playing field.
The existence of that discrimination creates a desert claim for something to give redress for that discrimination and ultimately that takes the form of affirmative action.
So the reason why we ought not end this firmative action is because to do so would be the same as saying that these hindrances to certain people being successful no longer exist.
Because our society still has barriers for women, for immigrants, for people of color, for people of different religions to access certain parts of society we don't think that it's okay to end affirmative action.
Which leads nicely into our second point about what the world would look like if you did remove affirmative action, which is a return to the old status quo.
It's true that right now about fifty percent of the students in college in the US are women and you see similar rates in many european countries.
But that's only possible because of affirmative action.
People like to say, oh, well nowadays we don't need that affirmative action, but the situation in which it appears that we don't need affirmative action was created by affirmative action.
The reason why there are now more women than men in university is because we're giving women the opportunity to compete on a fair playing field.
And if you got rid of this affirmative action and similar programs what you would see is a return to the old status quo where women were a minority and were not able to participate in universities and in other roles as fully.
Similarly, we see that african americans have not had the same amount of achievement as other races despite affirmative action.
So some people would say, well, that means that affirmative action has failed and that we should get rid of it.
But actually what you would see is that the situation would be even worse if you were to get rid of affirmative action.
If we have half as many african americans as we should expect in elite universities right now, getting rid of affirmative action would lead to an even lower proportion of african americans, would make our schools even whiter.
So we think that ultimately, this would be a return to the old status quo that everyone agrees was unacceptable and that it's not something that we should return to.
So ultimately, we should not end affirmative action because the alternative is not a world with equal achievement without special treatment for some, it's a world of unequal opportunity.
And our final point is somewhat a response to rachel's argument about backlash but also an argument about why the time really matters when you think about affirmative action.
It's true that there was a huge amount of resentment towards affirmative action when it was first introduced.
It really became more common in the US in the nineteen eighties, especially in the workplace and for university admissions, and it was a big hot button political issue and many people really resented it.
But today, thirty years later, there just isn't the same amount of concern about affirmative action that there was then.
Even most people from the dominant group now, like white people or men, understand the need for affirmative action today.
So it's just not true that we need to get rid of this because of some huge backlash.
That backlash has never materialized.
So what you're comparing here is a world in which we give a leg up to people who have been discriminated against versus a very limited amount of backlash.
It's clear therefore, that we should not get rid of affirmative action.
Thank you.