We should not abolish homework.
We think that ultimately, while it's true that some students have too much homework and are too stressed out, that homework in a moderate amount is actually a good thing.
So we would advocate for students to have an age appropriate amount of homework, maybe fifteen minutes in lower grades and as much as an hour every night in high school.
That way we could curb the excesses of the status quo while keeping the benefits of homework.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that homework teaches discipline.
Even more important than the lessons that you learned from your homework, are the lessons that you learn about how to manage assignments.
Ultimately, no matter what job you have, in your life you're going to have certain responsibilities where something has to be done on or by a certain date or you're going to get in trouble.
This might be your taxes, it might be something for work or it might be something for your personal life.
But people need to learn to meet deadlines and how to manage their time in order to get their work done.
Homework teaches people to do that.
When you're thirteen years old having ten math problems to do for the next day seems like a really heavy burden.
But ultimately this is a very low stakes way to teach students how to manage their time and how to be responsible.
Students get punished for not doing their homework which teaches them that iresponsibility has consequences, and as a result they're much less likely to learn these lessons the hard way when they're adults.
So ultimately we think the most important lesson homework offers is one of responsibility, and that rachel's policy of longer school days simply won't be able to teach that lesson as effectively.
So we need to keep homework around for that reason.
Our second argument is that there are some assignments that just could not be done in school.
Imagine assigning students to read a novel.
If you have them do it during the school day then you're wasting contact time with the teacher.
There's no reason that a group of fifteen year olds who have to read the odyssey should be sitting in a classroom doing so, when they could do it on their own time.
Rather we should focus on doing things that need a teacher, such as discussing the book or going through activities in the classroom and letting solitary work such as reading a book or doing math problems be done on one's own.
This maximizes the benefit that students get from their classroom time.
After all, some students can read a chapter of a book in half an hour and others might need an hour.
There's just no way to balance out the amount of time that it will take students to do their reading and their other assignments if you have them do it during school.
Something like study hall is never going to be a total substitute for doing homework outside of school as well, and ultimately we just don't think that it's going to be possible to teach lots of important lessons if you don't let teachers assign work to be done outside of the classroom.
And our final point is that we need to entrench the material in students' minds and that repetition is an important way to do that.
If you learn a lesson in class about how to solve some math problem, and then you do ten examples in class and then you never look at it again until the exam it's much less likely that you'll remember it.
But if instead you have to practice it every night for a week, it's much more likely that that will really be entrenched.
If you've ever learned another language you know that repetition is an important part of learning how to speak another language.
No one is going to be able to learn spanish if the teacher can't tell them to go home and memorize vocabulary and verb conjugations.
Ultimately we need students to be exposed to information over and over and over again, in order that it sticks in their heads.
And we can really only do that by assigning homework.
So we're fine with saying that students shouldn't have six hours of homework, and we're fine with saying that maybe the way that homework is done in the status quo isn't always the most effective.
But in order to teach discipline, to promote reading and math problems and other skills that take time to develop, and to entrench the material, we should not abolish homework.
Thank you.