We should not limit the right to asylum.
Before I get into my arguments, I'd just like to point out that people who are seeking asylum don't have any other opportunity to get to a safe location.
We're talking about people who for instance were the victims of isis fighters in syria or people who are fleeing from north korea, people who generally have no other option to take, not any other type of immigrant.
Many of the people who are called asylum seekers in contemporary european media probably don't meet this standard but we think it's important we talk about people who genuinely are seeking asylum and not people who are being more opportunistic.
So our first argument is that when there is a dramatic need for asylum, there's a huge obligation to meet that need.
It's probably true that countries don't have to give up huge amounts of their citizens' property and privileges in order to help asylum seekers, but when the comparison is between letting people be killed by a murderous dictator and giving people a safe place to stay even if it's just in a tent city obviously the cost of the outlay for these asylum seekers is much less than the harm that they would like endure if they were to stay where they are right now.
Moreover these people can't choose where to go.
When you're a genuine asylum seeker, you're just going to the first available safe point whether that be a UN camp in your own country or whether it be an adjacent country.
For instance the millions of people who went from syria to turkey.
So ultimately we think that there's an obligation to help these people because the cost to the receiving country is so much lower than the harm that these people would endure.
Our second argument is that the application of any rules that you set will always be biased.
Some people will be more costly to grant asylum to, but oftentimes they're the people who most need asylum.
Setting up an asylum shelter that say for elderly people and children is a lot more expensive than setting up a tent city that lots of young men can live in, but ultimately these are the people who can least afford to live in a war torn area.
So we think that it's very likely that any sort of asylum granting process will necessarily discriminate against people who are at risk, and even if the other side flips this and says that countries like france are more likely to give asylum to women and children we would point out that oftentimes young men who are rarely granted asylum are even more at risk than their compatriots because they're more likely to be drafted into one of these hostile armies or to be killed as a presumed militant.
So we think that no matter how the other side spins this, there will be unfair discrimination if you set up rules about who can receive asylum.
This is why it needs to be made available to everyone.
After all, asylum is a human right, not something that we can take away.
It's the right in the same way that people's right to freedom of their person is and it's essential to maintaining their freedom of their person which the UN declaration of human rights and most national constitutions go on to recognize.
So we think there is an obligation there not to be biased in its application.
And the last thing that we'd say is that any discrimination is going to be arbitrary because it's based on national origin.
If you imagine that when you're born you have no control over where you're going to be born, you'll quickly see how this is arbitrary.
Birth is effectively a lottery.
If you're lucky, you'll be born to wealthy doctors in canada who will love you and treat you well and send you to college, and if you're unlucky you might be born in the democratic republic of congo in a region that's been prone to conflict since decolonization.
Ultimately people shouldn't be held responsible for the circumstances of their birth, which means that they shouldn't be discriminated against merely because of their nation of origin.
Now obviously states have a duty to their citizens, and I'm not denying that, but as much as possible they should try to not discriminate against people because of national origin and discrimination when it comes to granting asylum is one such form of discrimination.
For all these reasons, we should not limit the right to asylum.
Thank you.