We should abolish zoos.
So in this debate we're not talking about conservation parks or places that exist solely for the benefit and rehabilitation of animals, we're talking about zoos that exist pretty much exclusively for the entertainment of people who visit them.
I have in mind the bronx zoo, but there are obviously thousands of zoos like this around the world.
So three arguments for why we should abolish these zoos: first is that we think they are fundamentally cruel to the animals which they house.
In nature, animals would always have access to much more space to roam around then they will in a zoo.
Even some of the largest zoos, like the one in san diego, or the one in north carolina, still cannot provide animals with the type of habitat that they would have in nature.
An elephant that would normally roam over tens of thousands of acres might be limited to a few hundred acres in the best zoo.
In smaller urban zoos, we tell you that it's likely that they're limited to one or two acres.
This is similar to keeping people in prison.
In the same way that we see that it is a punishment to prevent people from moving around, we think that these animals are also arbitrarily being punished by being denied access to the space they would normally have to provide themselves with a high quality of life.
We think it's unlikely that these animals are able to self actualize when they're confined to a tiny area like a zoo.
But on top of that, we think it's cruel because it denies the animals the ability to socialize naturally.
In nature animals likely meet dozens of other members of their own species or at the very least have more choice about how they socialize.
Whereas in a zoo, perhaps they're kept with other members of their species, or perhaps they're kept in isolation.
Which seems like a tremendous amount of torture given that it is illegal to keep people in isolation without any good reason.
At that point we think that zoos are ultimately harmful for the mental and physical well being of the animals that they house, that they are cruel, and that it is not just to torment other creatures for the enjoyment of humans.
Therefore we should abolish zoos.
Our second argument is that zoos provide poor education to the people who visit them.
The argument that I anticipate the other side making will be that zoos raise awareness of issues like conservation.
But we think zoos actually build what we'll call false consciousness about these issues.
People go to the zoo and think that donating money to the zoo, for instance, is a good way to prevent species from going extinct or to help conservation.
But it doesn't really follow to me that giving money to a zoo in new york city does a lot to help out elephants in africa.
It seems more likely that things like conservation parks, national geographic specials television programs etcetera, could all do a better job of raising an money for conservation without the huge overhead of running a giant zoo.
We just don't think that this is a good way to educate people in terms of our use of resources.
And also people don't always take away good messages from zoos.
They devalue and commodify animals in a way that makes them seem like cheap sources of entertainment for people rather than beings deserving of respect.
Our third and final point is that we think zoos are a poor use of funds.
Recognize that many zoos are funded by the public.
We think that this is inexcusable.
First of all, zoos don't actually do a lot to promote conservation.
So if you think that the government needs to spend money on conservation, this is a bad way to do it.
We don't see that the government subsidizes other forms of entertainment in this way, so we also don't think that you can win this debate on those grounds.
But moreover, any money spent on zoos is not money spent on helping people.
We think that if you care about things like education and people's well being, that you should spend money on schools rather than zoos.
These institutions cost millions of dollars to run, often don't break a profit, and don't seem to be a good investment for municipal or state governments.
So for these reasons we should abolish zoos.
Thank you.