We should not increase tax credits.
On our side of the house, we're going to argue that additional tax credits are bad because they make the tax code more complex, and because they prefer certain lifestyles to others in a way that we don't think is appropriate for the government to do.
So our first argument is about why it's important to simplify the tax code.
Right now, in the US and many other countries, the tax code is extremely complicated, and people have to hire professionals in order to do their taxes.
We think that this is harmful, first of all, because people don't understand what they're paying in, why, and what it goes towards, which means that people see taxes as just an arbitrary punishment rather than as part of a social contract that benefits all of society.
But, moreover, it also opens up huge loopholes for abuse.
Every time you make a tax code more complicated by adding deductions or by adding tax credits, it's easier for people to avoid paying the tax burden that they should.
Professionals will always be able to see through the tax law that's been created by the government in order to find things that can be abused, combinations that shouldn't have been made, ways that their clients can hide their money, etcetera.
So, when you make the tax code more complex, you just make it easier for wealthier people to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.
Meanwhile, many of the low-income people that these tax credits might be designed to help are less likely to know about them, because they're less informed about tax policy.
After all, nobody really teaches you how to do your own taxes in school, and online programs don't always perfect compared to what a professional could do.
So we see that this really benefits the people who need to pay more in taxes and hurts those who probably ought to be paying less.
So we think that this is grossly unjust and that it's bad for the future of your country as a whole, because it reduces your tax revenues and because it places a higher burden on the people who can least afford to bear that burden.
But our second argument is that we should not increase tax credits, because it preferences certain lifestyles over others.
What do we mean by this?
Generally, tax credits are given because of a certain behavior.
For instance, we give people tax credits if they have young children, in some countries.
The problem with this is that it prioritizes some people's lifestyle over others.
For instance, there are many people who can't have children or don't want to have children who would never be eligible for a tax credit designed to incentivize people to have more children.
This means that the government is giving preferential treatment to people based on something that isn't really their choice.
No one is choosing not to be able to have children, but those people are excluded from a benefit that the government provides.
We think that this is unfair because it essentially tells people that there is one best lifestyle that they ought be living.
Now, you might say that the signalling effect isn't this strong and people don't really care that much about tax policy, but people absolutely do care about how much money they have in their wallet, so I think that the signalling effect that the government is preferencing one lifestyle actually is very strong in these instances.
The reason why we don't think the government should preference any one lifestyle is because, ultimately, this will just lead to a majority view being imposed on everyone.
If most people believe in traditional family values and want to give subsidies to people who have children, then they're not going to care about the minority of people who say, " hey, that's not part of what I want.
That's not the lifestyle that I'm looking for. "
So, we think that majority values will end up being imposed on everyone.
And if you have large cultural divides within a country then, for instance, offering subsidies to people who want to take time off work for religious regions or things like that might impose one community's values on everyone else.
So we see that this can impose people's values on others in a way that is ultimately detrimental to everyone's participation in democracy.
So because on our side, we have a simplified tax code, and because on our side, we don't preference any one lifestyle over any other, we encourage you to vote not to increase tax credits.
Thank you.