We should not ban foreign workers.
On our side of the house, we think that liberal democracies like america, canada, and britain should have policies that allow people from other countries to come and work.
We think that perhaps you have to place restrictions on annual immigration, but we think that you should generally allow a lot of these people, as many as you can, to come work.
And I'd like to point out that this applies to two broad groups of people: first, low income workers who are doing jobs that people from your country don't want or aren't able to do.
For instance, if you've ever eaten an almond, it was probably picked in california by someone who came in from mexico to do that job, because americans aren't willing to work the long, difficult manual labor that it takes to pick almonds, or strawberries, or other produce.
And the other group we're talking about are people who have, what we call in america, h one b visas: basically, engineers, medical researchers, other, you know, professional, well-educated types.
In the US, the stereotype is that a lot of these people are indian engineers coming to work for tech companies, and maybe that's a useful thing to have in the back of your mind as we have this debate.
So, first, we say that you shouldn't ban foreign workers, because there's a need for workers in order to meet demand.
Employers don't just bring over workers willy-nilly because they want to undercut americans.
First of all, we think most employers probably care about other people in their community.
But even if you don't believe that, fine, we still think that because there's such a high cost to sponsoring someone to come to this country and then paying for that person to be here that, most of the time, you could actually pay an american, or canadian, or britain, or german, or whoever higher wages than this immigrant.
We think that there has to be a demand that isn't being met by your domestic workforce before you'll go to great lengths in order to bring people in from other countries.
So, for instance, there's a shortage of american engineers, so many companies have had to hire people from india or from southeast asia in order to come work in the united states at tech companies.
If the united states were suddenly to graduate ten percent more engineers, maybe we wouldn't have this demand.
But as it stands right now, there is a demand, and the market is filling it by bringing workers in from other countries.
This isn't just about destroying jobs in wealthy countries, it's about meeting a demand from companies.
And when those companies are able to hire people from abroad, they're able to create more products, they're able to develop new services, and that ultimately helps the economy of these highly developed countries, even if it's not people who were born within those borders who are doing the job in some instances.
And our second argument is that we shouldn't discriminate against people based on where they were born.
Why is this true?
Well, first, where you were born is completely arbitrary, right?
I'm pretty lucky, I was born in the united states, but I didn't do anything to merit that.
I didn't do anything to choose to be born in one of the richest countries in the world.
In the same way, no one chooses to be born in india, or china, or other countries where there are lots of professionals with fewer opportunities, or in mexico, where many people aren't able to become professionals just because their country is less developed.
We think that, generally speaking, we should allow people to act in their own self-interest and to try to achieve a better life for themselves, and sometimes that means moving to another country.
If you had been born in a developing country or maybe you were, you would probably want the opportunity to move to a richer country if it meant that you and your family could have a better life.
And because you would feel that way if you were in that situation, you should be empathetic towards those who are in that situation right now, since it's not like you did anything to merit not being in that situation.
Nor did they do anything to merit being in that situation.
So we think it's arbitrary to discriminate based on people's place of birth and, therefore, that it has no place in civil society.
For all these reasons, don't ban foreign workers.
Thank you.