We should abandon television.
Television is one of the most popular forms of media globally.
However we think that it has served its purpose and that it would be better if we shifted to watching programs and movies over streaming services online as opposed to cable or satellite or over the air waves television.
Three arguments for why we think this is the case.
First, we think that consumers would have more choice if we switch to streaming and away from legacy television.
Right now if you want to watch TV you have you know at best two hundred channels to choose from.
Whereas with streaming you have access to every program, every movie ever made.
We think that although television offers more choice now than it once did, it will never be able to compete with streaming in terms of the total amount of choice offered.
We think this is a good reason to switch to streaming because it means that consumers will get to see more of the programs that they want and also that media will be more accessible.
People who have certain cultures or backgrounds that lead them to prefer one type of media but who are a minority, such that those programs wouldn't often be on TV, will now have better access to that media.
So we think that a switch to streaming would be preferable to continued use of legacy television.
Our second argument is about the accessibility of niche programming.
So remember what I just said about how this helps minority groups.
But we also tell you that things like educational programming would be cheaper to produce because more people would be able to see them if they went up on streaming, and more accessible to children because they would be available all the time, not merely when they're on TV, and that this would maximize the return on investment for things like educational or cultural television programming.
We also think that more different groups would have access to creating content.
Right now imagine you're a native american who wants to produce a TV program about your culture.
You would have to convince a channel that this would get enough viewers to actually be worth it for them to invest in.
But with online streaming you only need to convince a handful of investors that it's worth putting this online because streaming is not zero sum.
Whereas with TV, only one program can be shown on a network at a given time.
With streaming you could have everybody in the world watching a different stream.
This means that people from disadvantaged backgrounds won't have to compete in a zero sum environment with more numerous or privileged groups in order to get their media produced and their voices heard.
So we think that more people have access to producing programming in a world where we move away from legacy television.
Our third argument is that we think that streaming would be less expensive for everyone.
Right now one of the driving costs of cable in america and other countries is that certain networks like ESPN are very expensive and other networks don't cost a lot of money.
So cable providers bundle ESPN with less expensive networks so that the cost is spread out to everyone, even people who don't watch a lot of sports.
And this isn't just ESPN, that's one example.
But what we tell you is that with streaming people can choose to, say pay per view, to watch sporting events that they want to see.
We see this a little bit right now with cable when you have things like boxing matches as pay per view.
But we think that ultimately that model is more likely to take off for all sports with streaming and that this would protect people who don't want to consume certain types of media from having to subsidize it for others.
But what's more, there are also huge overhead costs to maintaining legacy television infrastructure.
You need receivers, you need emitters, you need the rights to certain parts of the air waves, so ultimately we think that there are many barriers to access and many high costs to producing legacy television that don't exist for streaming.
So for these reasons we should abandon television and switch to online streaming.
Thank you.