We should limit freedom of speech.
We think that whereas some countries like the united states guarantee almost absolute freedom of speech that it would be better to take a more restrictive approach such as some other countries like canada do in terms of what is acceptable for people to say or write.
So our first argument is that freedom of speech trades off with safety.
If you look at the types of freedom of speech restrictions that many western countries have, they're going to be things that are designed to promote public safety.
For instance in germany anything that's pro nazi or nazi symbology were banned after world war two and this was done to ensure that we wouldn't see resurgences of fascism in germany and ultimately to promote public safety and obviously it was very successful and germany is a much safer country today than it was in the fifties but it's still important that we maintain this anti nazi sentiment in order to prevent any sort of backsliding.
And this isn't just something that's unique to germany, for instance white supremacist speech in the united states has led to many people committing acts of violence.
There was an incident late last year where a man on a trolley stabbed a person to death because he was protecting two muslim women that this insane white supremacist wanted to stab and ultimately this white supremacist and many other white supremacists in the united states in recent years were encouraged by online websites that are completely legal to promote white supremacy and neo nazism and all these other heinous acts.
So we say it would be better if the US banned white supremacy in the same way that germany has banned neo nazism because ultimately there's no benefit to letting people wave a swastika around and say kill all jews whereas the harms that accrue to the people these lunatics are going out and stabbing are all too real so the tradeoff is obvious.
It's much more important we promote the bodily safety and autonomy of minorities than that we protect the rights of majority groups to say we want to kill all minorities.
One of these things is not like the other and we think that it's absolutely acceptable to restrict freedom of speech given real world harms.
And an objector might say that they would ban for instance an immediate call to violence but think that people should be allowed to have ideological beliefs that are harmful but all fascist ideological beliefs are intrinsically harmful so we don't think that there is any room for them in civil society.
Therefore we are perfectly okay with banning fascist or fascist-like speech.
And our second argument is about the effect that lying has in our society.
So we're not saying that it should be illegal to tell your wife that she looks good in that dress rather we think that things like fake news are very damaging to our society.
For instance many large news agencies in the US, in britain, and I'm sure in other countries outside the anglo-shpere basically only exist because they lie in order to whip people up into a furor.
So whether it be certain disreputable newspapers like the daily mail in britain or whether it be websites like breitbart in the united states there's a whole industry now of just lying to people to encourage voters to vote against their own self interest.
This has very real impacts.
Brexit for instance probably would not have happened if it hadn't been for newspapers telling people that all of these things that weren't going to happen because of brexit would happen so many papers like the telegraph or the daily mail made it seem as though the european union was forcing britain to take a bajillion muslim refugees and it was going to turn britain to the next saudi arabia but all of this was just lies, straight up there was no truth to it but people believed it so they voted for brexit and now the british economy is suffering because of it.
Moreover many people's lives have been disrupted and it's just been a disaster all because of lying in the media.
So we absolutely think that we should be able to restrict freedom of speech when it comes to fake news or news that's designed deliberately to mislead people.
So for these reasons we should restrict the freedom of speech.
Thank you.