We should not limit judicial review.
On our side we think that judicial review, that is the ability of judges and the judicial branch to check laws and ensure that they are consistent with other laws and to reject laws that aren't, is an important part of a liberal democracy.
Our first argument is about checks and balances.
While the judicial branch plays a smaller role in people's lives than the executive branch or even the legislature, they're still an important part of a healthy democracy.
Without judicial review there's very little to stop a legislative branch from dramatically changing the way a country is run or dramatically increasing the scope of their own powers.
We think that the legislature can act as a check on the executive branch because they have to share the power of governing but that at the end of the day, the judiciary is the only meaningful check on much of what the legislature does.
We think that, for instance, if you had a legislature that passed laws that were racist but economically advantageous, for instance to imagine a trade-off that's come up very often in history, the executive branch might not have an interest in stopping that and probably doesn't have the authority to change the law.
So the judiciary is the only group that can provide a check on something like that that might run contrary to a liberal country's constitution.
And this leads nicely into my second point about how one of the roles of the judiciary is to protect the constitution of a country.
The point of a constitution is that it gives a common framework from within which to understand other laws and that it gives people a common ground within which to understand their government.
It also adds a huge amount of stability to a country.
When a country has a strong, clear constitution everyone can plan far in advance what the state is going to do for instance, in the US, to use a kind of silly example, nobody has to plan in case the government decides to quarter soldiers in people's homes like the british used to do in the colonial period because it's constitutionally prohibited.
So it makes the government more predictable and this is important for a few reasons.
First, because people have to be able to plan in order to exercise their own personal freedoms.
If I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow or if I can't realistically predict what's going to happen tomorrow, it's very difficult for me to know if I should buy a home, if I should get a degree, if I should get married, if I should have children, if I should get my children a degree, and all of these other major things that people have to decide in their lives.
Stability lets people plan in advance to make the best decisions for themselves and their families and we think that by having a judiciary that can protect your constitution, you have a much more stable state and therefore that this facilitates a lot of personal freedom for individuals.
But what's more we see that countries that have weak constitutions and weak judiciary's tend not to remain democratic for very long.
If you have an executive that wants to expand its power, for instance, usually the only thing preventing them from doing so is the judiciary and if they can convince a legislative branch to pass laws that let them do what they want, the only check in place on that expansion of power is the judiciary.
So we think that this is uniquely important form of constitutional protection and also this goes back to what I said earlier about checks and balances in terms of limiting the expansion of any one branch of government.
The last argument that we'd make is that this is a check on any one group in society or anyone political faction dramatically changing a country in only one political cycle.
It's possible for one party to win the executive branch and the legislative branch in a single election.
For instance, in britain let's say they have a snap election later this year and labor comes to power in parliament and now they control the legislative branch and the executive branch.
The only thing that could change or prevent labor from then changing everything about the country and then prevent the tories from changing it all back five years later would be this type of judicial review.
So we think it is very important for stability from that perspective as well.
For all these reasons, we should not limit judicial review.
Thank you.