We should not increase racial profiling at airports or elsewhere.
We think that, if anything, racial profiling should be banned and that security teams should be decreased in airports.
Our first argument is that security theater doesn't make us all safer.
After the september eleventh terror attacks, security in US and other developed countries' airports was greatly increased.
Yet there hasn't been any evidence that these greater security efforts have actually reduced the amount of terror.
Hijackings were already going down before that point, and it seems very likely that nine eleven was an isolated incident.
Moreover, on countless instances, security experts have shown that the TSA and similar security agencies abroad are completely incompetent at preventing people from hijacking planes.
There was a prominent new york times article a few years ago where someone managed to sneak a gun into JFK airport and then onto an airplane by wearing baggy clothing.
Ultimately, the security theater just is not working.
What does this tell us?
First of all, racial profiling is designed to make security theater more effective, but it's just a multiplier.
They claimed that if they're allowed to target arab people that they'll be more likely to use their successful techniques in the first place.
But we can see that if it's a multiplier and the baseline is very close to zero, then it's not going to be especially effective.
The TSA is no more effective than having the old private security we had in the nineteen nineties.
And in the same way that racial profiling wasn't allowed then, racial profiling doesn't need to be allowed right now.
And this leads nicely into my second point, which is kind of a principled justification for why this shouldn't be allowed.
We tell you that it's just wrong to racially profile people.
First of all, legally speaking, race is a protected class in most liberal democracies.
What this means is that you can't discriminate against someone simply because of their skin color, last name, or national origin.
Essentially, in the last eighteen years or so, the world has been willing to say that they will overlook their principles that everyone deserves to be treated equally based on their race in order to reduce terror.
This hasn't worked, though.
So even if you think that the ends justify the means, as I just explained to you in my last argument, the means haven't come about.
The ends haven't come about.
So there's no reason to have this racial discrimination.
But secondly, we don't think that it's okay to look at people with an " ends justifies the means " kind of eye.
Ultimately, when you discriminate against people, you're treating them as just a means to an end.
You're saying, " those people are a risk to everyone else, so we're just going to ignore their rights for right now. "
But there's no basis to believe that any given individual is a risk to anyone's rights, only that a certain class of people may be.
We think that, ultimately, it's unacceptable to overlook our country's principles simply because of a potential outcome, especially one that hasn't come about.
Ultimately, we could probably save a lot more people if we locked up every white person too, but we're not willing to do so.
And this leads nicely into my last argument, which is that this creates a certain idea of what terrorist looks like that actually has nothing to do with the real world.
Most of the terror attacks committed in the US right now are committed by far-right activists.
Usually, these are young, mentally ill, white men, but we don't have people at the airport pulling you aside if you're wearing like a metal tee shirt and you're white.
Instead, they're going after middle-aged arab men, who are probably businessmen on their way to work.
So we think that this creates an idea that only arabs or only middle easterners can be terrorists and ignores what terror actually looks like in our country right now.
This prevents us from fighting the terror that we have and entrenches racial bias further.
For all these reasons, we should not increase racial profiling at airports.
Thank you.