We should not privatize the postal service.
On our side, we're going to give you two reasons why the postal service should remain a public company run by the state rather than be privatized.
Our first argument is that it's essential that the postal service have equal treatment of people regardless of where they live.
One reason why it's relatively expensive to send mail, even locally, is that the post office serves every single person with an address regardless of if they live in manhattan or if they live in rural kentucky.
There are places that don't even have proper streets that still have postal addresses, and the post office has to find a way to deliver to those people.
And recognize that these very rural people in places like appalachia are, generally speaking, the poorest people in america, even poorer than people living in inner cities.
So these are the people who most need to have access to a subsidized mail service, first of all, because many companies would just choose not to deliver to them because they're low income and they would be expensive to deliver to, which is why we see that UPS and fedex normally let the post office deliver to these regions on their behalf.
But, secondly, they need access to the post postal service because if the region is going to develop, they need to have access to jobs and money and material from the outside, and all of that relies on being heavily connected to the national economy, and this depends on having access to the postal service.
So, if we privatize the postal service, they'll stop delivering in appalachia in other regions.
Why?
The first reason to think this is true is that, as I mentioned, fedex and UPS already don't deliver to those areas because it's not profitable.
Private companies don't deliver in order to help people, only to create profit for shareholders.
Indeed, they have a legal obligation to only consider benefits to shareholders when they make decisions.
So with that in mind, we can see that these low-income, very rural people will strongly lose out if you privatize the postal service, because it'll no longer have an obligation or an incentive to deliver to them.
But, moreover, we think that the post office will stop delivering just because there would be limited demand in those areas.
You might say that that's fair not to deliver somewhere with low demand, but we think that because some people require the post office much more than others, that aggregate demand isn't a fair way to measure this.
Ultimately, we don't think that the harms to very rural areas in appalachia, or the ozarks, or other very isolated parts of the country are acceptable and, therefore, we need a public post office to serve these communities.
And our second argument is that prices will necessarily go up.
Right now, the post office has to keep prices extremely low because they require congressional approval in order to raise their prices, and congress has historically been very loath to give this permission.
So if you privatize the post office, they'll start charging according to supply and demand.
So if there's a demand for postal service, then they'll be able to charge more, which seems likely since prices have been tracking upward over time.
So we see that, right now, prices are artificially depressed relative to what they would be in a free market, and this is obviously good to consumers: one, because it puts a check on the prices that UPS or fedex can charge, since they have to compete with the post office's low prices, and two, because if you raise the price of sending mail, you'll make it more expensive, again, for low-income people and rural people to receive access to goods that they really need.
We see that, for instance, many people rely on medical deliveries through the post office that would be more expensive.
Many people's businesses rely on having access to the post office, and that would be more expensive.
So, ultimately, there would be many harms to everyone in the country if prices were to go up.
And the only way to keep them down is to keep the post office as a company run for the public good rather than to make shareholders money, because if that were the case, they would always raise prices, and more and more people would be unable to access the postal system.
Thank you.