We should ban foreign workers.
On our side, we think that countries should ban companies from bringing in laborers from abroad to specifically fill a job.
We're fine with people immigrating through regular means but we would get rid of things like skilled worker visas or agricultural labor visas that are very common in countries like the US and britain and many other countries around the world.
We have two main arguments for our side.
The first about the effect these workers have on wages and the second about the brain drain of their home countries.
So first, why do these workers depress wages?
The labor market like every other market operates according to the principle of supply and demand.
If there's a very limited number of workers, then companies will have to pay them more in order to get the workers that they want because the they just have fewer people to choose from and there's greater demand for those workers that are available.
This is one reason why countries like the US and britain and germany had very high wage growth in the mid twentieth century.
After world war two there was a huge demand for labor but at that time you were limited to a domestic labor market.
As a result they had to pay relatively high wages, offer good benefits, offer pensions in order to attract workers because if they didn't their workers could just go work somewhere else.
There was a very high demand for labor which gave more power to workers relative to their employers.
We think that one reason why wages have largely stagnated in the last forty years in western countries and why benefits have declined or completely gone away in for many people is that there's now a much greater pool of workers for companies to draw on.
Nowadays if you don't want to pay the wages of an engineer in california you can either outsource that job or bring someone to the united states to do that job for them.
We think that ultimately this is very harmful because it depresses wages and undermines the ability of workers to represent themselves against companies because they lose all leverage if they can just be replaced with someone from abroad.
And our second argument is about brain drain and why this practice is bad for countries like china and india where many of these workers are brought in from.
If you have a situation where companies in india can only afford to pay let's say twenty five thousand dollars to an engineer and companies in california are paying two hundred thousand dollars for the same job, just to make some numbers up, it's obvious that the best workers from india are going to try to go get those jobs in california or at least many of them will.
As a result, countries like india lose their best and brightest students.
This is really bad for a few reasons.
One, because in order for those countries to develop they need to have their own capital including human capital remain in the country.
Effectively you can reinvest educated workers in your economy just like any other form of capital.
If you have really well trained, smart, hard working engineers than your economy will grow more quickly than if those engineers go to america and grow the american economy.
But moreover, countries like india are investing a lot in education but they're not reaping all of the returns because the best students are going to america or going to europe or singapore and places like that in order to get higher wages.
So when we allow western countries or when western countries choose to basically import the best workers from places like india and china, not only are they harming their own workers but they're also limiting development in those countries.
We think that this is a really bad thing because it means that standard of living is going to increase more slowly in those countries because you need a larger economy in order to support a higher standard of living and moreover, because it means that some countries will be trapped at their current standard of living if all of their best people are leaving.
For all of these reasons, we should ban foreign workers.
Thank you.