We should not adopt socialism.
Before I get into my three points, I'd just like to say that I think that rachel was a bit disingenuous in her last speech, because this can't just be a debate about social democracy like we have in canada versus capitalism in the united states because ultimately canada, britain, and other western liberal democracies are all capitalist countries even if some of them have public health insurance as opposed to private health insurance.
We think that this must be a debate about extreme levels of government control of the economy.
Things like nationalized industry and many people being public employees.
Something more like what you saw in yugoslavia or the soviet union.
So with that in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first, unsurprisingly, is that socialism failed to create a better world in the twentieth century.
Revolutionaries like mao zedong and lenin prove that it is possible to tear down the old world and build a new one in its place, but unfortunately it's not a world in which anyone wants to live.
While that may be true that the soviet union had very high economic growth over the course of its history, they also had such a great shortage of consumer goods that people had to wait ten years to purchase a car and that people weren't able to access basic services like plumbers and electricians for their homes.
Now clearly there were many benefits to the socialist regimes in these countries.
People saw higher quality of life than they had before, but we think that ultimately capitalism can also develop countries and do it in a better way with the better end goal.
We would tell you that south korea is a better model for success than the soviet union.
We think that because of this we should not adopt socialism but rather that country should focus on a free market run intelligently for the benefit of its citizens.
We think that ultimately a country can develop very quickly by drawing in foreign direct investment from capitalist countries and use that to improve the lives of its citizens much more quickly than a socialist country pursuing heavy industry and five-year plans ever could.
Our second argument is about wealth flight and brain drain.
If you nationalize major industries such as oil or mineral extraction, than the people who previously made their money in those industries are going to leave your country and take their money with them.
After all, if they run the risk of losing all of their wealth if they keep it in your country, then they'll move it to britain or the united states where they know that it's safe.
At the end of the day, huge amounts of money leave countries like venezuela because of the socialist governments, because wealthy people don't feel comfortable keeping it there.
This makes it harder for banks in those countries to lend money, it makes it harder to raise capital, and it means that lots of people who know how to run a country simply leave.
You see a similar factor of brain drain.
If I were an ambitious, young, well educated venezuelan why would I stay in my home country when I could make much more money by moving elsewhere in latin america or to the united states.
Many of your best citizens will leave because they care more about making money than they do about ideological purity.
We think that this ultimately leads to human rights abuses such as denying people exit visas and forcing them to work against their will, such as you saw in the eastern bloc where they had to build a wall to keep people from fleeing to west germany.
Our third and final argument is that there are better options in the world today.
Ultimately we can see that there are many failings of traditional western liberal democracies, that they don't provide people with enough access to democracy, good enough health care, or do enough to fight against poverty.
But the solution isn't to turn to a failed twentieth-century alternative, it's to build a better version of the world that we do have.
We think that many politicians like jeremy corbin offer a vision of what this could look like, a world in which capitalism has a more human face and in which it works for people rather than against them.
We think that ultimately by adopting more progressive policies in capitalist countries we can create the best possible world where as socialism runs the risk of human rights abuses and ultimately isn't as effective for development.
For all these reasons we should not adopt socialism.
Thank you.