We should abolish juvenile courts.
On our side of the house, we think that young people should, first of all, probably not be in the criminal justice system.
There are probably better ways to help children who are being put through this process but that when it's absolutely necessary to put someone through the criminal justice system, everyone should face the same justice regardless of their age.
With that in mind, we have two main arguments for our side.
The first is that these juvenile courts don't actually protect the young people they're created to help.
We think that the best argument the other side of this debate could make is that juvenile courts exist to protect people who are under eighteen from the existing courts, but I think there's a few problems with that idea.
First of all, what do they need to be protected from exactly?
If the courts are actually free and fair, then there shouldn't be any bias against these people just because they're children.
We think that if the justice system is so broken that there's no way to get fair trials for people who are twelve or thirteen, then there's a larger problem that needs to be solved rather than just putting our heads in the sand like an ostrich and just segregating them into a whole nother system.
We think, rather, that these juvenile courts are probably actually harsher on minors than the open courts would be.
Here's why: if you're a judge who deals with , say, mostly fourteen, fifteen, sixteen-year-olds who are accused of crimes day in and day out, you're probably much less likely to be sympathetic to those cases because they're all you see, whereas a judge who sees people from every walk of life and every background is probably much more likely to be sympathetic to the relatively rare child that they see come before them, be more likely to recommend that juries are lenient, be more likely to consider what that child needs.
Because if something's unusual, it's much more likely to capture your attention and get the important type of treatment that it needs rather than something that you do day in and day out.
So I think that, ultimately, these courts don't serve to protect youth.
They serve to commodify them and have them all treated as one group, who actually don't all have the same needs.
It acts as though all young people are the same when that really isn't true, and I think that the differences could be better served in general courts.
And our second argument is that it's unfair to segregate a certain populace of people from the courts.
At the end of the day, everyone in a country has the same right to justice.
We think that justice is the same regardless of how old you are, justice is the same regardless of your background and where you come from.
And this is one reason why principles like habeas corpus, the right to see your accuser and hear the charge against you, exist: in order to provide equality for people who didn't have that right beforehand.
But when you segregate children out into separate courts, you usually have different procedures, different rules, different expectations.
It's true that these things are usually set up under the guise of helping children but at the end of the day, we think that everyone has an equal right to justice and that difference almost always leads to inequality, at least in some sense.
We think that it's very important that the courts treat everyone fairly because if they don't, they lose buy-in from the public.
Courts only work as a conflict resolution technique if people are actually willing to put their faith in them.
If people don't trust courts, then they're more likely to deal with problems on their own or to seek alternative ways to resolve their issues.
So we think that if people think that the courts are much too lenient on children or much too harsh on children, that they're much more likely to seek other ways to solve their problems and that this undermines the authority of the court.
That's why this inequality is such a concern.
But aside from that, it's also a concern because either you're putting innocent people in jail at a higher rate than normal courts, which is unacceptable, or you're letting too many guilty people go, which is unfair to victims.
We think that any deviation from the norm hurts at least one party and, therefore, that this is unacceptable.
Thank you.