We should not ban zoos.
Before I get into my case, I just like to talk about what I'm defending.
On our side we don't have to defend abusive zoos or zoos that keep the animals in very small exhibits.
We don't have to defend keeping every type of animal in a zoo.
We can defend a world in which the animals are well treated and have enough space and where if there's some animal that shouldn't be kept in a zoo because of its nature, maybe elephants, then we wouldn't keep that animal in zoos, instead we would have other animals in their place that don't mind like I don't know baby ostriches.
With that in mind, we have a couple of arguments for our side.
The first is that zoos are critical to our conservation efforts.
In order to encourage people to care about conservation, you need awareness and you need fundraising.
How do we get awareness?
People have to have an emotional connection to these animals in order to care whether or not they go extinct and because most of the animals that are at risk don't believe in our own backyards, people need a way to go and see them.
Now you might say oh well programs like national geographic or blue planet do enough to show people how great these different animals are, but there is certainly a connection that people feel to an animal when they see it in person as opposed to when they see it on the big screen or when they see it hundreds of miles away from their own home.
When you can go to a zoo and see a rhino or see an alligator or some other animal you're much more likely to care about that animal's well being and that's ultimately leads people to donate money and to lead to political activism.
In terms of money, people are likely to one pay a visit a zoo and two to donate money when they feel bad for the animals there.
If they see an elephant and there's a sign at the zoo that says this elephant's whole family was murdered by poachers and then there's a little box for people can put money that says stop poaching a lot of people are going to put money in there because they really have an emotional connection to that elephant.
Similarly, if people go to the zoo and they like it then they're more likely to donate money to conservation groups which are often connected with zoos.
Most zoos aren't raising money to get some private owner rich, they're raising money for some conservation group or to protect the animals.
And moreover, people are likely to come away from this after they've been educated about the animals and have political will for conservation so that they'll vote to do things like create public sanctuaries or reintroduce wolves into the natural habitat for instance that's something happened when I was growing up.
So we think that ultimately you're much more likely to get good conservation because of greater awareness, greater fundraising, and greater political activism on our side.
But our second argument is that zoos aren't evil in and of themselves.
Sam seems to think that it's wrong to have a trade-off between human and animal well being but I would argue first of all that a lot of animals like living in a zoo.
If you are a zebra and god came up to you and said would you rather live in this big area with all your zebra friends where there is no lions or would you rather live out in the serengeti where there's a bunch of lions what would you rather do I think some zebras would probably choose to live in the zoo, it's not unreasonable.
And moreover, I think that the enjoyment humans get from them is valuable and isn't something we should just throw away.
A lot of people discover a passion in their life or just have a lot of enjoyment from going to the zoo so if you could have a zoo that doesn't hurt the animals its net neutral in terms of the animal's perspective and that's positive from a human perspective then I think it's okay to have that zoo because it's not hurting anybody and it's helping some people to feel good.
So ultimately I think that zoos are not bad in and of themselves.
For all of these reasons, we should not abolish zoos.
Thank you.