Single sex schools should be banned.
On our side we're going to argue that it would be better if there were no single sex schools funded for primary, secondary or college level education.
So whether this be religious or public schools, we think that in general they're a bad thing for students.
Our first argument is that single sex schools do not prepare people adequately to interact with the rest of the real world.
When students go to a single sex school, they're being socialized like anyone else.
School is ultimately a sort of laboratory that teaches us how to interact with the real world as citizens and as workers.
But if you go to school in an environment that's completely artificial, that doesn't reflect the real world, then you're not being trained to work in the real world.
Let's think about how this affects boys first, and then girls.
For boys, this means that they're not learning to interact with women as equals and in a respectful way.
The environment that they're in in an all boys school is one in which women are completely absent.
Unfortunately this reflects many board rooms in the western world.
But what we tell you is that if boys aren't exposed to girls who are smarter faster stronger better than they are, that they won't go on to respect women as much afterwards.
So the comparison is between co-ed schools, where you socialize boys to respect women at a younger age, versus having boys go to single sex schools and then be turned out into the real world with no idea how to interact with women in a respectful healthy way.
Then if you think about all girl schools, many of their proponents would argue that all girl schools help women, because they let them take leadership positions and not have to interact with men in a negative way during their formative years.
But this doesn't really prepare people for the real world.
If you go to an all women's school, or an all girls school, then you aren't learning how to interact in a world where men unfortunately do receive preferential treatment and discriminate against women.
Ultimately, we think that this doesn't prepare you for the challenges that you're very likely to face in your life.
We think that girls in particular will be better served by sending them to school with boys, so that they learn - one, that they're able to compete outcompete boys, but on top of that that they also learn how to interact in a world that is fundamentally very sexist, something that they're less likely to learn if they live in this kind of sandbox environment where they don't interact that much with boys.
Now, my opponents might say that boys and girls will both interact with the opposite sex outside of school, but when you spend eight to ten hours a day in school we think ultimately this is still harmful for your development, for all the reasons that I've explained.
Our second argument is that these schools are fundamentally discriminatory.
First I'd just like to point out that there is a small but growing portion of young people who are coming to terms with non binary identities.
Whether this be transgender people or other groups, who are excluded from single sex schools.
We think that this is unfair to those people, and that for transgender children in a single sex school, their situation is even more precarious because they don't have anyone of the opposite sex to interact with and to engage with.
But we'd also like to point out that they're discriminatory because of the allocation of resources.
Let's say that you have a really good french teacher in your town, for instance, and you have a boys school in a girls school.
This teacher works at one or the other, so either only the boys or the girls get access to this good teacher.
We think that this is fundamentally unfair and that sex shouldn't determine which students have access to which educational resources and which teachers.
Now, some might say that you could have cooperation between the schools, but that seems to defeat the purpose of single sex education.
We'd also like to argue that these are discriminatory because people are paying taxes for schools that their children can never attend, that ultimately yes, we require people to pay taxes even if they don't have children, but it seems wrong to require people to fund a school that their children are, because of an immutable characteristic, never going to be able to use.
Our third and final point is that single sex schools are inefficient.
We think that in general having larger schools allows a better allocation of resources.
Everyone can study with that same french teacher that I mentioned before.
In the same way, we can build facilities like sports stadiums or gymnasiums, we can have things like musical instruments available for students, that are ultimately going to be used by more people.
So this is a better investment of government funds.
For all these reasons we should not allow single sex schools.
Thank you.