We should not abolish open primaries.
So we think that states should be allowed to choose to have open primaries if they want to as opposed to closed primaries or some other form of choosing their representatives.
We have three arguments for our side, the first is that we think that people shouldn't have to register for one particular party to earn a say in who their representative is going to be.
Essentially we think it's fundamentally unfair that the only way you get some choice in who you are allowed to vote for is if you register for a party.
Many people, perhaps even a plurality of people, don't support either party enough to want to back them by becoming a member.
We think that it's unfair to make these people opt into either the democratic or republican parties in order to have some say in who their representatives are.
These people are systematically excluded by closed primaries, but are allowed to participate and gain a voice in the democratic system under open primaries.
So we think that the other side needs to explain why they're okay with discriminating against independents when they defend their position.
Our second argument is that we support variation between the states.
Many people have called the states laboratories of democracy and argued that they can set an example for the national government by trying new policies and that their success or failure can lead to better national policy as a whole.
Any state is free to choose to adopt a given policy if they see that it's more successful in the state next door.
No state is compelled to maintain the same policy just because they've used it in the past.
So if for instance an open primary state wanted to become closed primary, they would be able to.
But presumably people in those states like the system that they have because it's been maintained by their elected legislatures.
So we think there's a couple of things to consider here.
One, people must want open primaries because they've been around for a long time and they haven't been repealed.
We shouldn't get rid of something that people have democratically supported.
Two, these provide us with a model on which other types of national elections and decisions could be made.
While the other team might say that these are primaries for national level positions, oftentimes we think that the states can set an example for different types of voter reform or different types of party reform so ultimately this isn't something that we should throw out so quickly.
Ultimately, the country as a whole is better off when there are more types of ideas and more types of government being implemented because we can see best which ones work and which ones don't.
So we think it would be a mistake to get rid of open primaries.
And our last argument is that we think that open primaries are always going to be discriminatory.
While it's true that no one can be forced to sign up for a given political party, it's also true that there can be huge amounts of pressure on people to sign up for a given party.
For instance if you're an african american you might feel like you have to sign up for the democratic party because everyone at your church and everyone that you work with is a democrat and they expect you to be a democrat as well.
But maybe a republican who is definitely going to win would have a lot of influence over your life so you want to have a say on who that person is going to be.
We think that you should be allowed to vote in that republican primary because it's going to affect your life in some way.
The other team tries to present this is like nefarious scheming to undermine parties, but we think that what that actually means is that people are just going and voting in their own self interest for who the parties are going to nominate and since the parties really control who your next governor or politician in charge of you is going to be, we think that people should be able to go and vote in other groups' primaries because it affects them too, especially for these minority groups where peoples' relative freedom is constrained because of social or community norms.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abolish open primaries.
Thank you.