We should not ban tattoos.
We think that consenting adults should be able to get a tattoo from a licensed tattoo artist if they choose to do so.
We're fine with regulating tattoo artists and making certain requirements the same way that we do for barbers or other professionals but ultimately it seems very invasive to prevent tattoos overall.
Three arguments for you this morning.
The first is about when the government should step in and paternalize people and their behavior.
We would tell you that there are two instances when the government should get involved.
The first if there is an information asymmetry and the second if there are third party harms.
So when information asymmetry occurs when one party in a contract is privy to information that means that they have much more power than the other person involved in the contract.
For instance, if you had a corporation trying to take advantage of people because they knew something that the people didn't the government should step in to prevent that.
This isn't the case for a tattoo though.
Probably everyone who receives a tattoo knows that it is painful, that it can get infected or scab over, and that there's some minor amount of risk.
In fact, in many places when you go to a tattoo parlor there are signs up telling you about the possible side effects of getting a tattoo.
But people choose to get them anyway because the risk is marginal and tattoos are very meaningful to them.
So we don't think there's an information asymmetry, we think that adults in this case can be trusted to get involved in a tattoo related contract.
Maybe one exception would be if people are drunk, but most tattoo artists who are reputable would already refused to tattoo a drunk person and perhaps we can encode that into law as well, that you can't be intoxicated when you receive a tattoo.
The other time when we might ban these is for a third party harm, but frankly it's unclear to me how any third party is affected by an individual's choice to get a tattoo.
It's not like this would be passed on to your children or something so no one is really affected by it.
For these reasons the state should not intervene.
Our second point is about cultural significance.
For many people, tattoos are an important cultural touchstone.
They're a way to celebrate achievements, to recognize adversity that has been overcome, and ultimately they become an important part of mainstream culture.
We don't think that the state should be in the business of banning something that is very important to many people especially when there's no compelling third party harm.
We think that the state should defer to public mores for what is and is not acceptable and because tattoos are so popular and commonly accepted, ultimately, we don't think there's any case for the government to ban them based on the public mores.
So we ought not get rid of them for that reason.
And our third and final point is about why we don't think the government should prescribe what is and is not moral.
This is separate but similar to the last point.
People right now think tattoos are ethical or moral to receive.
We don't think the government should try to convince them otherwise is the new point here.
The state is trying to convince people that some very widely accepted practices, like smoking in public, shouldn't be acceptable.
Generally, the government does this because there's some compelling harm to that activity.
Smoking in public exposes people to second hand smoke, for instance.
But since there's no similar harm to getting a tattoo we don't think that the government ought step in and try to change the public perception of what is and is not moral.
Even though we rely on the government to act in our best interests and on our behalf we just don't think there's any need for them to do so in this particular case.
So for all of these reasons we should not ban tattoos.
Thank you.