We should not protect net neutrality.
On our side, we're going to tell you how it's bad for domestic web companies, how it's anticompetitive, and how, ultimately, it makes being a web service provider not profitable enough to be worthwhile.
So, first, why is this bad for domestic web companies?
Under net neutrality, you can't preference online businesses from your country over foreign businesses.
What this means is that the united states is going to outcompete basically every other country when it comes to web-based businesses.
This is simply because the US has a larger population than any other developed country and because it was the earliest adopter of the internet in its modern form, en masse.
As a result, we think that the only way that other countries will see web businesses develop is if they're able to give them preferable treatment.
So, for instance, we think that something like orkut, which was an online service that was really popular in brazil fifteen, twenty years ago, wasn't able to compete with services like google, because the US is just able to throw more money at web services than brazil is.
So in order for brazil to be able to develop its own web-based companies and to keep the capital that people would invest within brazil, and then to encourage a high tech sector to develop so that, ultimately, more human capital can be developed and their economy grows, the only way that they can achieve all of that is to allow protectionist treatment, essentially, for online businesses.
And that's incompatible with net neutrality.
People like to imagine that net neutrality is just about letting americans watch the netflix that they want to see with their cable provider as an internet provider, but that's not really what this debate is about.
This debate is about how countries can develop their own domestic web-based industries, and you're not able to do that without protectionism, just as you couldn't develop a steel industry if you allowed american steel into your country or chinese steel into your country very cheaply.
Our second argument is that this is anticompetitive.
People frame net neutrality as something that allows free market to decide which companies are going to win out, but actually it just encourages vertical monopolies.
Basically, what you see with net neutrality is that companies have a huge incentive to, essentially, partner up with other businesses.
You might say that that's worse without net neutrality, when a cable company could only offer their streaming platform, but I don't think they would because, ultimately, they'd have to offer other platforms as well in order to attract consumers.
But the status quo encourages this type of monopoly or this type of monopolistic practice, because with net neutrality, it's very difficult to compete in the same space with an established company.
So no one is able to offer a new netflix-like service, because netflix already exists and they have this huge first mover advantage.
We think that by getting rid of net neutrality, we could see other services emerge to compete with netflix, because you would give some protection for those companies to compete in the market.
And our final argument is that we think that there would be fewer web service providers if you don't allow net neutrality.
So we think that, for instance, right now, it's not very profitable to be a web service provider, so there are very few businesses in that market.
Just offering the internet to people isn't very lucrative.
If you get rid of net neutrality, then these companies will be able to bring in a lot more money from third-party companies through these kind of business-to-business transactions in exchange for partnerships.
So maybe the web service provider that I have in boston will partner up with hulu or something in order to give preferable treatment to hulu and, as a result, you'll see that it's more profitable to offer web service and, therefore, that there will be more competition in that industry, which will increase access to the internet as a whole.
And you might say that this will decrease access to web-based services, but we think it's more important that people have access to the internet and to high quality internet rather than to one particular streaming service.
And for all of these reasons, we should not protect net neutrality.
Thank you.