We should not fight nationalism.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why nationalism is actually something that's positive and why it's not something we need to fight against.
To do this, we're going to respond to will's points, first, about conflict, and then about xenophobia.
So, first, let's respond to what will tells you about nationalism leading to conflict.
We think that if you try to fight against nationalism because it will lead to disagreement or disunity, you only favor groups who became nationalistic early on.
Many states right now have nationalism that excludes minorities within their own boundaries.
Russia's probably the best example of this.
Russia has tons of ethnic minorities who aren't russian but who are still subsumed within the russian state.
Will would tell you that because nationalism is bad, those groups shouldn't seek independence and their own self-determination.
They should just be happy to live within a multicultural russia.
But we think that this is really unfair to those groups, because it denies them the same opportunity to have their own states that people like georgians and armenians gained because they were nationalist a hundred years ago, whereas places like chechnya weren't.
Yes, we think conflict is regrettable, but we think that the blame here is with the groups that refuse to allow minorities any sort of self-determination.
Rather than fight against nationalism, we think that other groups need to be more respectful of it.
We think that large dominant groups, like russians, need to understand the situation that minority groups are in and allow those groups to have self-determination.
And I don't just want to pick on russia here either.
This is a problem in other countries too, including western liberal countries like spain, were spaniards refuse to accept the fact that catalonians deserve the same right to self-determination that they have.
Now it's true that there hasn't been as much violence in catalonia as in chechnya, but we still think that the problem is not with nationalism so much as with governments that refuse to cede any power to regional minorities.
This leads to a huge bias in favor of the status quo that we think is atrociously unfair to many minorities who aren't able to live the way they would like to right now.
And our second argument is in response to what will tells you about xenophobia.
He essentially says that all nationalism is xenophobic, but we don't think this is necessarily true.
First of all, we would tell you that in many countries, like argentina or canada or the US, or especially brazil perhaps, the national identity could incorporate new groups of people.
It's true that many nationalists are racist, but we don't think that american nationalism is racist in itself against americans.
We think that there are plenty of nationalist african americans, for instance, and I think that will is conflating two different things when he says that african americans are treated badly by some nationalists.
We would tell you that, in fact, in many countries, people are able to use nationalism to prove that they are a member of that community.
For instance, you have immigrant groups that celebrate the fourth of july very prominently and that disproportionately enlist in the military, because they want to prove that they're as american as anyone else.
And this has the effect of incorporating those people more closely into the community because it gives them more in common with other groups.
We think that this is one reason why the united states has been able to incorporate so many different immigrant communities over its history, and I think similar phenomena exist in many other ethnically diverse states in the new world.
It's true that there are some countries where this isn't the case, where nationalism excludes people, like hungary, but I think that saying that nationalism overall is bad because some countries have toxic nationalism is a little bit far-fetched.
We should try to have those countries incorporate more people into their nation rather than just say that nationalism, as a whole, is xenophobic, when plainly that isn't always true.
For all these reasons, we should not fight nationalism.
Thank you.