We should privatize national parks.
On our side, we're going to argue that national parks should be auctioned off to private operators.
We're fine with setting certain restrictions on how they can use those parks, such as requiring them to operate as non-profits or to operate for the benefit of the public but, at the end of the day, we think that private groups could probably run them better than government.
Our first argument, unsurprisingly, is that governments are inefficient at operating these parks.
Because government bureaucracies are so large and so abstracted away from the people that they're helping, we think that, oftentimes, they don't know that much about a local area or have that much incentive to take care of any one park.
This means that if we were to send them off to local administration that it's much more likely that people who really care about that park and who really care about the community around it and the nature within it would run them and, therefore, that every park would get the attention that it needs, something that's oftentimes sorely lacking right now, as national park services tend to focus only on the parks that draw lots and lots of tourists from all around the world.
Our second argument is that this would increase investment in individual parks.
We think that these groups that would come to run parks privately would have much more of an incentive to advertise than the park service does.
If you advertise, then it's most likely that more people will go to parks in general.
Right now, governments don't tend to push parks very hard, except for a few parks that are very popular, such as yellowstone in the united states, and therefore, as a result, many people don't even know about the parks that they have access to or the resources that are available to them.
We think that these groups that would be advertising would then attract much more attention to the parks and, as a result, that more people would be willing to invest money, whether that be because they fall in love with the beautiful nature and want to invest in keeping it pristine and clean, or whether because local businesses see an opportunity to boost their standing in the community by becoming a sponsor of the park.
The impact of all this is that we think that much more funding overall would be available for parks if they were managed privately rather than by the state.
Government funds are always going to be limited because people are just unwilling to pay higher taxes, and because governments have bigger concerns than national parks, like welfare and the military.
But these purpose-driven groups that only care about one thing, namely, promoting the interest of this one particular park or a small number of parks in one area, would likely do a much better job attracting investment and then using that money to actually benefit this particular park.
We think that this would be good because you get a sort of virtuous cycle, where the park is improved and then more people visit, so then there's more money available and then it's improved even more, and that this could be really good for things like wildlife conservation and preservation, for educational opportunities for people to learn more about nature or to go into conservation programs, etcetera.
So, ultimately, this could be something that's beneficial for these parks in many ways.
But, finally, our third argument is that this would be really good for local economies as well.
We already mentioned how this can draw an investment.
And if you're investing a lot in a park, it's likely that you're creating jobs not only within the park, but also to serve the greater interest.
If you double the number of people who visit a relatively sparsely visited park, now another hotel or lodge has to open.
Now there have to be restaurants for those people to eat at.
Now there's gotta be a gas station that's open twenty four hours so that people who are arriving early can get gas.
So you're creating a lot of jobs in a secondary market as well as the jobs that you create directly.
And think about where these parks tend to be.
Oftentimes, they're in very rural areas that don't have a lot of economic opportunity.
So I think this could benefit a lot of people who are really struggling in the status quo.
For all these reasons, we should privatize national parks.
Thank you.