We should not ban private education.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is about the right of parents to choose where and how to educate their children.
Realize that society gives parents a tremendous amount of freedom about how to educate their children in almost every sphere.
For instance, whether or not you teach your children to practice certain religion, how you teach them to perform civic engagement, what athletic or civic programs you sign them up for, are all completely the domain of parents with no state intervention.
Why then should their academic education be the one sphere in which parents aren't able to decide how to raise their children?
We think that ultimately this is inconsistent with the broader freedoms that we give to parents and that we ought not to implement this policy for that reason.
But what's more, we think it's important for certain communities that they be able to enroll their children in private education.
If you have a community that requires children to take certain religious courses, we think ultimately it's an unfair burden to require them to attend normal school and also have children go to these religious schools separately.
Now I can almost hear the next speaker in this debate saying, well lots of jewish children go to hebrew school on the weekend, this isn't such an onerous burden.
But the fact that some communities are willing to take on this burden doesn't mean that it should be required of everyone.
We think that communities should be free to set up religious schools and to have children attend them if they so wish and that ultimately it's not the place of the state to prevent them from doing so when we allow free practice of religion.
Our second argument is that this wouldn't actually help the people who need help from public education.
The areas where most wealthy people who attend private schools live, already have good public schools.
If you live in a rich new york city suburb then your children could already go to really good public schools and when you send them to prep school instead, that's just an emphasis that you're in the one percent instead of the two percent of wealthiest americans.
At the end of the day, it doesn't do anything for chicago public schools to compel parents in rich chicago suburbs to send their kids to public schools.
After all, the way education is funded in the US, where danny has chosen to talk about this debate, is that it's funded at a local level.
So when you have cities that are overwhelmingly minority and overwhelmingly poorer than their suburbs, like chicago, it doesn't help anyone to require people to send their children to public schools because the wealth isn't being shared.
Indeed this is one reason why white flight happened in the twentieth century.
When judges started requiring schools to integrate and end segregation and started requiring cities to spend money on black schools as well as white schools, people left cities like boston and like chicago and moved to the suburbs instead.
The entire educational system is set up to prevent white people from paying in money to help black people's education and you wouldn't solve that problem by forcing people not to have private education.
Our third and final argument is about the impact that this would have on higher education for a broader society.
If you close private universities like harvard and yale or require them to become public, you would have a huge loss in research, especially medical research.
It's not a coincidence that almost all of the world's top research universities are private.
Whether they be american schools like harvard and stanford, or british ones like oxford and cambridge.
At the end of the day the public sector is unwilling to underwrite risky research and doesn't have the money to invest in huge research budgets like private universities do.
This is why important medical advances, like the human genome project which was done at oxford, or crispr, a new gene editing software that was done at harvard, aren't coming out of public universities.
The other side might argue that a few public universities like berkeley do good research, but the point remains that if you banned private universities you would lose out on their massive research outputs.
So at the end of the day, we should not ban private education.
Thank you.