We should not ban gratuities.
We think that workers should be tipped, and that people should be free to decide how much and when to tip them.
Some businesses right now have signs which encourage people not to tip their employees, and for government workers and certain other professions it may even be illegal for them to accept gratuities.
But we think that in general, service workers should be permitted to receive gratuities, and that in some instances it should be appropriate to expect them.
For instance, for cab drivers or for certain other types of workers.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that workers would lose out on pay if you banned gratuities.
Now, the other side might claim that it should be up to business owners to pay their employees a fair wage.
That's definitely true.
The problem is that business owners aren't going to do this whether or not you let people leave gratuities.
Business owners have every incentive to pay people as little as possible, and ultimately because so many people are competing for jobs like server or barista or driver, ultimately there's a big reserve army of labor of that business owners can take advantage of, so they have no reason to pay their workers better.
Therefore, the best way to ensure that workers receive more money is to encourage people to reward good service.
This way, if I have a cab driver who knows that I'm in a hurry and gets me somewhere more quickly, I can tip them and reward them and that person is now making more money, and I'm benefiting from that service.
And the same is true for waiters and waitresses, baristas and other staff who might sometimes receive a tip.
We think the comparative is that these people would be paid less, and that because they're often relatively poor already, we shouldn't do anything that would hurt them even further.
Our second argument is that this is a form of wealth redistribution.
I already mentioned that most tipped workers are relatively low income right now.
People don't tip their doctor or their professor, they're tipping a driver or someone who brings them their food.
So these tend to be people who work part-time jobs, who might be struggling to get by, and the people consuming those services are middle-class people who have more economic resources, more stable employment, things like that.
So tipping, effectively, is a transfer of money from middle-class to working or lower-class individuals, and one place where this is really accentuated is at tourist locations.
For instance, if you're a person from a wealthy country and you visit a much poorer country, when you tip, that's effectively much more important and valuable to the person in that country than it is to you.
If I go to malaysia and I tip someone for carrying my bag, five dollars for me might not be a lot of money, but for the person in malaysia who carried my bag it might be a considerable sum.
So ultimately, this is a transfer of money from people to whom it means less to people to whom it means more, and we think that that's probably a good thing both for the people receiving the service and for the person who benefits from this tip.
And our final point is that this is the only way to facilitate special requests, special needs, and things like that.
For instance, if you need a cab driver to wait for you, you might not be able to pay them, because the meter wouldn't ultimately bring in enough money for it to be worth their while while they're sitting still, but you can give them a gratuity and encourage them to stay for you.
Similarly, if you need special consideration from a waiter, or if you want to be seated early at a restaurant or something like that, a tip can be the only way to make that happen.
So because people have various special requests or needs that they might need filled, and tips give people a reason to fulfill those needs, we think ultimately everyone is benefiting, and that when those special requests are important, such as having a car wait for you, this can be really meaningful for both sides of the interaction.
So for all of these reasons, we should not ban gratuities.
Thank you.