We should subsidize undergraduate education.
By subsidize we mean that government should make this education cheap enough that everyone can afford it even to the point of making it almost free as we see in some european countries and by this of undergraduate education we mean someone's first university degree.
So as much as I would like to spend the rest of my life earning useless degrees, I don't think the government should pay for that but perhaps they should have to pay for people's first degree.
We're going to talk about how this would lead to more economic growth, how this would lead to a healthier democracy and how this would break down class barriers.
So first, economic growth.
When people attend university and are able to get a degree they become more productive workers.
It may be true that nothing about the people themselves has changed but we can see that the productivity for highly educated workforces is much higher globally than those of less highly educated workforces and that in countries like the US or germany, people with college degrees tend to be much more productive in terms of their contribution to the country's GDP than workers without a college education.
So therefore it stands to reason that if you invest highly in education for your workers you're investing in a larger economy.
If right now let's say one in three german workers has a college degree and the GDP per capita is somewhere around fifty thousand dollars, you can dramatically increase that perhaps, if you go up to two thirds of your population having a college degree because your average worker is now more productive and we think that in particular, this is something that wealthy countries can specialize in because they're more able to provide this type of education and therefore that this is a way for them to remain competitive as other countries develop.
Our second argument is about how this leads to a healthier democracy.
When you give people an education, particularly the type of traditional liberal college education that people think of, they don't just learn how to do a trade or learn skills they also learn how to think and how to be a better citizen.
When people go to college they have an opportunity to learn about the world around them, about history, about politics, these kinds of things, in a way that they simply can't in secondary school both because secondary school pupils aren't mature enough to learn some of those subjects and also because there just isn't the time or the money to teach them those things at that age.
We think that as a result, students are much better able to engage with their government after having a university education.
We think that they're more likely to be critical of poor government policy because they recognize what it is and they have more context from both other parts of the world and from history to criticize that and we think that as a result, it's much more likely that they elect good governing officials first of all, and secondly, that they're able to be critical of the government in a meaningful and productive way rather than this kind of bland populist reaction that we see in some parts of the world against liberal governments right now.
And our final point is that this can help to break down class barriers.
Everyone knows that a college education is a ticket to having a better career but for many people it's simply inaccessible.
If both of your parents went to college, you were dramatically more likely to go to college yourself so as a result you have this kind of self-perpetuating class hierarchy of people from the types of families that go to college and people who aren't from those families and it's true that some people are very bright and can win a scholarship but you shouldn't have to win a competition with thousands of people entering in order to access a good education when a mediocre wealthy person is able to get that same education.
We think that by sending more people to college you can break down this class barrier and allow more people from a more diverse background, people who've been excluded from college in the past to be able to attend and be able to better themselves and their communities.
For all of these reasons, we should subsidize undergraduate education.
Thank you.