We should privatize the military.
On our side we think it would be better for countries to rely more heavily on independent contractor groups, like blackwater, rather than standing militaries.
We have a few arguments for our side, the first is that contractors are actually easier to hold accountable than the military.
Here's why: if you have a contractor that does a really bad job, for instance, if they fail to achieve their objectives or if they run way over budget on a project, you can choose not to renew their contract.
And because they knew this, we think it's very likely that they will be held to a higher standard, whereas the military has no competition.
The US army doesn't have to worry that if they do a bad job that a bid will go out for another group, like the british military or something, to come in and take their job.
They know that they can spend as much money as they want and not necessarily always be as successful as we would like them to be, but that they'll never be replaced and that no one's going to lose their job as a result.
We think, on the other hand, that if you have contractors, this would be a very lucrative business, what would attract several different companies into that market.
As a result, it's very likely that there would be intense competition for big bids.
For instance, imagine if the US invasion of iraq had been broken up into a few different contract bids, each worth a hundred billion dollars.
I think the whole war cost six hundred billion, so you can imagine that this would draw companies like vultures to a corpse.
As a result, I think it's very likely that you would be able to hold these companies accountable due to that amount of competition.
Our second argument is that this would save lots of money in peacetime.
Maintaining a standing army, as countries like the US or britain or israel have to do, is very expensive, because you're paying lots of soldiers to just train or to keep themselves in fighting shape but not actually do anything on your behalf.
Yes, it's true that soldiers do fill valuable roles in times like natural disasters but, generally speaking, for the US to have three million people employed by the military means that those people aren't working in productive jobs, and it's not an insult.
I mean that, literally, they don't produce anything compared to people who work in factories or research and things like that.
But not only that, you're also saving lots of money because you can just choose not to renew a certain contract during peacetime, making it very cheap and easy to downsize.
So I think that, as a result, countries would be able to spend more of their money in times of peace on investment in their development or investment in their own society and that this might create a more peaceful country, overall, that doesn't need the military as much, which seems to me like the best possible outcome of any change in military policy.
After all, the best world would be one in which people don't need militaries at all, so any step we take towards that would be an improvement.
And our final argument is that this would allow countries to go to war and have many fewer people sent to their deaths.
Why is this true?
One big problem with most countries' militaries is that they rely on conscripts.
This isn't true in the US, but the fact that so many soldiers are drafted straight out of high school and don't receive a huge amount of training means that there's sometimes a similar effect.
It would be better to use contractors than conscripts, certainly, and sometimes maybe better than professional soldiers, because their training would be much better.
It'd be so expensive for these contractors to bring someone in and get them up to speed that it would be a real investment in personnel for them, so obviously they want to keep these people alive.
As a result, they're going to have better training and equipment than the average soldier, at least in many countries, so we think it's likely that many fewer of them will die in conflicts.
The other side might say this is bad because people won't take conflict as seriously if there aren't a lot of deaths, but considering the tiny number of americans who died in iraq and the massive backlash against the war, I just don't think that holds up, and I also think that fewer people dying in war is just generally a good thing.
For all these reasons, we should privatize the military.
Thank you.