We should not abandon democracy.
Before I get into any of my points, I think sam completely missed the point of this debate when he said that he was going to defend a world in which we have any system other than democracy.
Right?
Surely nobody thinks that benito mussolini is preferable to theresa may.
So I'm going to imagine that the other team has taken a more moderate line and proposes that there are other forms of government that could be preferable to democracy, something like the kingdom of philosophers in plato's republic, let's say, rather than a twentieth century fascist dictatorship.
But with that in mind, I have two main arguments for why we should not abandon democracy.
And by democracy, I just mean a society in which decision-making power rests with the people, whether that be a western liberal democracy, whether that be council communism, or anything else that allows people to have control over how their state or society is governed.
So, our first argument is that democracy could always be improved rather than abandoned.
It's true that most liberal democracies are really bad, but we think that the problem is oftentimes the way that democracy is implemented rather than democracy itself.
If you abandon democracy entirely, you throw out the baby with the bathwater.
It's true that liberal democracies are prone to having populist parties or far-right parties seize power, but ultimately we don't think that's true of every possible democratic system of government.
For instance, many people don't know this, but the soviet union actually had elections all the time and everyone voted in them, and a lot of local decision-making for like your township would be made at a local level.
It wasn't until the national level that you get to a kind of entrenched bureaucracy that makes all of these decisions.
So, obviously, the soviet union failed to live up to many of its ideals, but I think it's easy to imagine how a system of government in which people have a lot of local control over their lives would be preferable to many liberal democracies, where bureaucrats hundreds of miles away make decisions based on what's best for oil companies.
It's not impossible or even difficult to imagine a better world than the one that we live in.
It's just necessary that we believe in democracy so that we reform it rather than turn to the horrible alternatives.
The next thing that I'd like to point out, in addition to the preferability of reform, is that the alternatives to democracy have many problems.
And by that I just mean to say that there are some unique benefits to democracy.
The first is that it's very easy to have a chain of secession.
So, basically, in a democracy, it's really easy to know how your next leader is going to be appointed.
You have an election every few years for your president in the US or france, or you have parliamentary elections in countries like britain.
Ultimately, we tell you that the problem that many other systems of government have is that even if you have a really good undemocratic leader, someone like pericles in ancient athens, that person dies, and it's really difficult to know how you choose your next leader.
And maybe you say, " oh, it'll be his son, " or maybe it'll be like someone selected by some committee, but we think that ultimately democracy provides a very clear path of secession and this is essential to long-term long-term stability, which is the key to growth.
The other team might say, " oh, well, many democratic countries have a hard time with this, " but when, for instance, a country like zimbabwe has undemocratic elections, we don't think that's really a democracy, we think that it's a dictatorship with the trappings of a democracy, and therefore that that's outside the scope of this debate, and that liberal democracies actually have a really good track record of peaceful transition of power.
But moreover, we think that it's much more difficult for just really obviously harmful systems to take place in a democracy.
There's a reason why democratic countries don't practice apartheid, why democratic countries tend to be more economically developed, and it's because people won't vote for leaders who make really obviously evil or harmful decisions.
Yes, it's true that hitler was elected, but there's a couple of examples that prove the rule, no matter what.
So at the end of the day, we tell you that we should not abandon democracy.
Thank you.