We should not exploit mixed use development.
By this, we mean that urban planners should not privilege new buildings where there's commercial space mixed in with residential space when they zone new areas or when they plan changes to existing neighborhoods, rather we think that there is a valuable distinction between commercial and residential space and that we shouldn't necessarily add more mixed use space to existing cities.
We're going to talk to you about how this leads to gentrification, how it changes the character of neighborhoods, and how traffic and infrastructure normally aren't in place to handle this.
So, first, gentrification.
When you've rezone an area for mixed use development, oftentimes that attracts the attention of developers who want to get as most money as possible on their investment in property, which is totally rational.
So what happens is they go in and they buy up existing housing, and they tear it down and build new buildings that are mixed use.
And oftentimes these new mixed used developments will offer fewer housing units for the amount of space that was taken on the lot, and they'll be much more expensive because they're new.
In my neighborhood, for instance, we're starting to see some mixed use development come in, which is good for me, as a young person with like a good decent job and no expenses, but it will eventually reduce the amount of housing available and make the neighborhood more expensive.
As developers come in and tear down hundred year old three-story houses and put up brand new condos that have shops on the first floor and are still three stories high, necessarily you're getting newer, larger, nicer apartments but, ultimately, fewer people will be able to be housed in the same neighborhood.
We think that this forces out a lot of longtime residents of the neighborhood, that it prices people out who are from a working class or lower class background, and that it makes it more difficult for people to stay in the communities where they grew up.
Long story short, it gentrifies the neighborhood.
This can change the racial composition of a neighborhood and force out people of color since, in many cities, white residents are wealthier than people of color, and it can also undermine long-standing communities, such as koreatown in los angeles, even though there's a lot of mixed use development there.
We think that, at the end of the day, this type of gentrification is dangerous for communities and for the people who live in them.
Secondly, we think that this changes the character of neighborhoods in a meaningful sense.
Neighborhoods that are fairly quiet right now can suddenly become, you know, bustling business centers, when you add a lot of mixed use development.
Areas that people might choose to live in so that they can raise their kids away from a lot of traffic, more on that in just a moment, might suddenly become unsuitable for that.
Neighborhoods that are famous for having a particular type of architecture or a lot of architecture from one time period might suddenly see an influx of new buildings, and even if they match the feel of the neighborhood, which they don't always do, they're not going to be the same, and they are going to change its character.
So we think that cities become more the same when we rezone them in this way, and we lose some of the distinctions that make a place like boston so special relative to other cities.
And the last thing we'd like to point out is that infrastructure often isn't ready to handle the influx of people coming in.
Right now, the only reason most people would come to my neighborhood is if they live here, because it's mostly residential.
But as more and more mixed use buildings go in, people are going to come to the neighborhood to go to those stores.
But the roads aren't getting any wider, and the traffic lights aren't going to be any better spaced, and the bus service isn't changing, so you're going to see more and more congestion in this neighborhood.
And, you know, it's not the end of the day for me end of the world for me, but we do think that it does create a lot of hassle for people who live in those neighborhoods to have lots of traffic, especially when infrastructure doesn't keep up.
For all of these reasons, we should not adopt mixed use development.
Thank you.