We should prohibit reality television.
Reality television is TV that claims that it represents unscripted real life situations.
There are two main forms: one are game shows where the people are trying to win some sort of prize or compete in some sort of contest and it's presented as though it were unscripted and completely unfiltered, and the other are sort of lifestyle shows that follow people in supposedly ordinary situations.
Think of keeping up with the kardashians is an example of this and survivor as an example of a competition type reality show.
So our first argument for why they should be prohibited is that there's a lot of false advertising that goes into making the shows popular.
In fact, they're actually scripted.
Basically nothing in these shows is actually spontaneous.
The directors will make people redo scenes that they don't like the way that they turned out, they tell people what to say and what to do, they arrange for certain events to happen that wouldn't have happened if the show weren't being filmed.
So ultimately they're being presented to people under false pretenses.
We think that because we don't allow advertisers to lie in other ways we shouldn't allow them to lie about reality TV as well.
So we think that one of the big harms to this reality television is that it's only popular because it's based on the false perception that it's real.
Nobody would likely watch the shows if they were scripted and if they were presented as just being primetime dramas which is effectively what they are because the appeal comes entirely from this idea of a window into reality, but since that isn't provided, we think that the FCC which regulates advertising in the united states or similar bodies in the EU and other countries should ban reality television.
Our second argument is that these shows generally spread bad values.
There's no reality TV show called well adjusted people who get up every morning and show up to work on time, then take their kids to soccer practice.
Instead they tend to follow people who are being unfaithful to their spouse or treating their family very poorly or cheating people in some sort of business venture.
Basically it's always unsavory characters.
But unlike scripted shows which often portray people engaged in similarly unsavory behaviors the show's maintain that this is real life so eventhough the people are insulated from the the consequences of their actions, it's portrayed as though everything that were happening were real which means that viewers, especially young people, are likely to take away the interpretation that they can act in the same negative ways as the characters in the show and they'll experience similar consequences to the characters in the show because after all this is unscripted reality television.
So we think it's much more likely that people will internalize these harmful norms from the show than they would from a show that's obviously scripted and that doesn't reflect reality in any way, even in pretense.
And our final argument is that reality TV crowds out other content.
Reality shows by their nature are very cheap to produce.
All you need is a camera crew to follow people around while they do something stupid or entertaining.
As a result, we've seen since the early two thousands that high quality scripted content is gone by the wayside while cheap reality TV that's generally produced to a much lower standard of content is replacing it instead.
Even if it brings in less money, the production costs are so low that it still more profitable for the studios.
What this means is that we've seen a relative dearth of network television of the same quality that we were used to before reality TV show became popular, and we think that ultimately this harms the entire viewing public.
So because they're false advertising, because they spread bad values, and because the crowd out other content, we should prohibit reality television.
Thank you.