We should end affirmative action.
So, affirmative action is a policy whereby members of a historically disadvantaged group are given preferential treatment in some way.
As an example of this, public universities in some states in the US, like california, how are required to admit certain amounts of students from different minority backgrounds, not just white students.
We see that in the past minority students were denied access to universities and that this is a way of ensuring their inclusion.
In the US these policies have been popular since the nineteen seventies and are seen both in the public sphere, for things like government hiring and public universities, and the private sphere, in private schools and universities, and in business for hiring as well.
We think that these policies should be phased out over time in developed countries where they probably already run their course.
Three arguments for you today: the first is about the backlash that affirmative action policies cause.
Right now when you have lots of qualified people applying for jobs, for instance, we think that oftentimes people feel that they don't receive a position because of affirmative action.
There's a certain narrative unfortunately in the united states, which is something like: " a black woman took my job. "
Whereby white men who feel entitled to certain benefits or positions or spots in universities greatly resent people who they think have only out competed them because of affirmative action.
This sets aside that those people who are getting it instead of them might have better exam scores, or more qualifications or a higher certification.
Ultimately, all of the success that people of color or women have is placed as an effect of affirmative action.
This leads people to have a more negative opinion of those groups, because they think that they're being treated unfairly in comparison to minorities or to women.
But what's more, we think it also undermines the achievements of minorities and women.
When they're successful, it's all attributed to special treatment.
And when they're unsuccessful it's held up as a reason why these people were always going to fail.
We think that ultimately women and people of color would be able to get more respect while facing similar amounts of opportunity if we got rid of affirmative action.
At the end of the day in the US it is no longer acceptable to be openly racist or sexist in hiring, so we don't think that things like quotas are needed as much anymore, while meanwhile they have some real harms as we've just explained, therefore we ought end affirmative action.
Our second argument is that affirmative action doesn't help the neediest people.
Consider for instance which women are the most likely to benefit from affirmative action hiring.
It's likely to be wealthy white women who went to good colleges, rather than low income women or women from a disadvantaged background.
So someone like theresa may or hillary clinton might benefit from affirmative action, but ultimately those aren't really the people that society needs to be helping.
Because we think rich white women are doing pretty well as we as we move on.
So ultimately the benefits aren't accruing to the most needy.
The benefits of affirmative action will always accrue to the most privileged people in whatever strada you try to help.
The richest black people, the richest women are ultimately the ones who are the most likely to be able to take advantage of affirmative action.
So we think that other policies that are more intelligent and target those actually in need, would be a better way to allocate resources.
So our third point is about better policies that are available.
We think that for instance tracking for many parts of a person's identity and taking those into account would be better than affirmative action.
So rather than perhaps saying: " oh we need more black people in our universities so we're going to admit five percent black people instead of three percent, like my alma mater recently did " we could say: " this person comes from a particular background as an individual, and we should respect their background and acknowledge that maybe they didn't have certain advantages growing up ".
And by treating people as individuals in this way, you would avoid essentializing people and have less backlash as well.
So for all of these reasons we should end affirmative action.
Thank you.