We should not end affirmative action programs.
We think that in hiring, in education and in other spheres government should give preference to people from historically discriminated against minority groups and to women as opposed to other groups that have historically had more advantages.
We have three arguments for our side: the first is that there is an obligation to correct for past wrongs.
The reason why certain groups are under represented in education or in the workplace is because of historical discrimination.
Every ethnic group and both sexes are equally capable of performing essentially any job or entering into any form of education.
So the reason why we see huge achievement gaps is because of historical legacies of things like colonialism or slavery which prevent some groups from being able to achieve their full potential.
Similarly the groups that over perform tend to do so because if they have accrued the benefits of this colonialism or slavery in the past.
So we think that ultimately because we are benefiting from slavery, from colonialism, from other very unethical systems, we have an obligation to try to help the people who suffered under those systems.
And that affirmative action is one of the best ways that we can do so.
We can correct for the achievement gap by ensuring that people are put into positions where they are able to gain the skills and gain the abilities they need to succeed, and ultimately hopefully their children will be in a better position than their parents were.
Our second argument is about how this prevents bias.
Now implicit in a lot of tim's arguments is the idea that we've reached a point in many countries, like the US or britain, where people don't discriminate against women in hiring or don't discriminate against minorities and hiring.
But it's impossible to say how much that's the case because of affirmative action.
Right right now we have relatively high workforce participation from women, but who's to say if that would continue if you got rid of affirmative action?
Maybe instead companies would go back to being old boys clubs and discriminating against women, and the same thing goes for racial or religious minorities as well.
Without this kind of intervention how can we say that things wouldn't go back to the bad old days when people were excluded because they weren't part of a kind of a majority group or a privileged group?
So ultimately we need to continue affirmative action because systems of abuse like racism or sexism continue to exist in society and affirmative action is one important way to counter them.
And the final argument that I'd like to make, in direct contrast to much of what tim said in his first argument, is that equality of access is equality of opportunity.
Tim seems very hung up on the idea that people deserve to have the opportunity to achieve things but that they don't have a right to enter into certain positions in society.
But I think that there's no distinction between equality of access and equality of opportunity.
If you're if you never have access to elite education then you never have equal opportunity to go into careers like finance or government.
So ultimately equality of access to schools that would put you into a certain position is critical for equality of opportunity.
If you are systematically excluded from entry level jobs, namely access to certain career paths, then you don't have the opportunity to achieve certain goals that you may have.
So ultimately I think that there's a false dichotomy between these two things.
Affirmative action for education ensures equal opportunity in people's careers and affirmative action in the workplace insures that people have equality of opportunity for things like owning a home, or starting a family or generally being successful.
So ultimately there's no distinction between these two things, and if you value equality of opportunity then you need to ensure equality of access.
So for all these reasons, to correct past wrongs, to prevent bias and in order to ensure equality of opportunity, we should not end affirmative action.
Thank you.