We should not to criminalize victim blaming.
So I just want to get some context for this debate out of the way.
Victim blaming is when people say that usually a victim of sexual assault deserves what happened to usually her and they try to blame the victim for something that obviously wasn't her fault rather than the perpetrator who is obviously at fault.
I think a good example of this would be that stanford athlete who sexually assaulted a young woman at a party a couple of years ago and then wasn't punished by the courts.
Many people were going on twitter and instagram and trying to blame the girl, who was actually the victim even though obviously she didn't consent to any of this, so that they wouldn't have to blame this kind of all american athlete that a lot of people liked or admired.
So that context out of the way, here's why we shouldn't criminalize this behavior even if it's distasteful and we wish it didn't exist.
First, this law is almost unenforceable.
I think it's going to be very very rare that you actually get a conviction on these victim blaming charges.
Why?
First, you have to prove intent which we think is going to be quite difficult.
Even if someone posts a twitter post saying that person you know should have been wearing a longer skirt and shouldn't been walking down that street at that time of day, which is obviously an obnoxious thing to post, it's still difficult to prove that that person is absolving the other person, the rapist in that instance.
So we think it's going to be very difficult to actually prove that someone is victim blaming.
On the other hand, we think that many cases are going to come to trial and then get slapped down initially and that this as I'll explain in just a minute, will be a huge waste of resources.
Ultimately, if you waste resources by bringing these cases to trial, then prosecutors aren't going after people who committed actual crimes like sexual assault.
Instead they're trying to fulfill whatever political obligation has been placed on them to get these victim blaming charges in and that actually clogs the courts further and makes it harder to punish serious criminals.
Our second argument is about the first amendment and I can almost hear the groans in the crowd but look, for better or for worse people are allowed to say almost anything they want in the united states including hate speech.
This seems fairly analogous.
Yes, you are tarring a group or tarring a person who doesn't deserve that but at the same time you have the right to blame somebody for anything as long as you're not actually causing them a physical harm.
I think the judge is going to have a very difficult time ascertaining which people are causing a genuine harm and which people are just being jerks and given these first amendment protections, I think that because so many of these cases aren't going to cause any actual demonstrable harm, most of them are going to be thrown out or cause expensive first amendment lawsuits which feeds into all the problems about cost for the prosecutor that I mentioned earlier.
In general, it's just very difficult to punish people for speech in the united states so we think that we shouldn't implement this law because it's probably unconstitutional.
And our final argument is that a fine could solve all of these problems with almost none of the drawbacks I just explained.
Look, rather than criminalize this and waste everybody's time in court why not just say if you go on twitter and harass someone who was the victim of sexual assault you will have to pay a five hundred dollar fine or go pick up garbage on the side of the road on sunday mornings for a month.
Nobody wants to pay the fine, nobody wants to do community service, so this has a deterring effect.
The punishment fits the crime better.
Right this is a fairly marginal crime.
You're not actually physically harming anyone but it's still something we want to deter so maybe a fine or community service is appropriate and also this is mostly going to be fairly young people who are idiots committing this offense and they'll probably learn more from having to pay a small fee or pick up trash than a huge traumatizing court experience.
For all these reasons, we should not criminalize victim blaming.
Thank you.