We should tax remittances.
Remittances are money that is sent by workers in one country back to their home country or their family's home country in order to support their family.
Normally, what this looks like is migrant workers in wealthy countries sending money back to their family in a less wealthy country.
So, for instance, lots of people who come from central american countries like guatemala and el salvador will send money back from the united states to their family in that country.
We propose that a small tax be placed on remittances or any money that is sent out of the country for these purposes.
We have a few arguments for our side: the first is that remittances siphon wealth out of a country.
Generally speaking, if you have workers in your country, they are saving their money, which means that banks can lend that money out within your country in order to facilitate investment, or they're spending their money, which means that they're putting more money back into the economy by consuming goods and services and supporting businesses in your economy.
But with remittances, that's not really happening.
All of this money just leaves your economy and goes somewhere else, and you don't even get anything in return for it, the way you do with trade.
The problem with this is that that means that there's a huge opportunity cost for your country.
Whereas a dollar that a worker owns, who spends that money in america, goes to local businesses, goes to the local economy and creates more growth, which then lets you hire more workers in this sort of virtuous cycle, a dollar that's sent home for a remittance goes on to create economic growth in guatemala, or el salvador, or whatever country this money is being sent to.
So this doesn't really benefit your country at all.
We think that governments need to be aware of the fact that work that is only possible because of their regulation and their laws isn't actually benefiting their people and their economy.
By placing a small tax on remittances, you can offset this harm and ensure that your economy continues to grow and that you're not losing out relative to other countries.
Our next argument is that there's a huge amount of lost revenue on this remittance money.
If someone buys something in your country, they're normally going to pay either a value added tax, a VAT, or a sales tax.
We can see that in countries like britain, this is a substantial part of the government's overall revenue, and in places like the united states, this is the main funding for local and county governments and, oftentimes, the main funding for things like schools and public transit.
So when that money leaves for remittances, you lose out on VAT and you lose out on sales tax.
What this means is that if you were planning to collect one percent of all sales tax in order to fund a big public transit infrastructure, this is really common in american cities, now you're losing out on that money, and people who are taking the subway every day to work aren't paying into its expansion and maintenance the same way that other workers are.
Given this is the case, I think you can offset that loss by having a separate tax.
You could think of this as a tax in lieu of sales tax or in lieu of value added tax.
In essence, in order to fund the infrastructure that's necessary for these people to work, you can tax their remittances.
We think this is fair because these people are earning the money that they're using for remittances by using infrastructure, and they ought pay into it in the same way that everyone else does.
Now it's true that sales tax is kind of an invisible way that people pay into their infrastructure, but it is an important factor in how people ultimately maintain their city and maintain their economic well-being, and it's one that we think ought be distributed equally onto all people based on their work.
So, on our side, we've explained to you how your country is losing out, relative to other countries, if you have too many remittances and, also, how we promote infrastructure spending and the like by replacing sales tax.
For all these reasons, we should tax remittances.
Thank you.