Community service should not be mandatory.
On our side, we would argue that no one should be compelled to work in government community service programs, much less private ones, as sam advocates in his speech.
We have three arguments for our side this morning.
The first is that this is literally slavery.
That's the end of the debate right there.
There's no way that the other team will be able to overcome this.
What is it called when you force people to work on something they don't want to work on, and you don't pay them, and the benefits accrue to other people?
Well, it's quite simple: it's slavery.
If you make people in the united states go work in, say, state forest, cleaning up branches or whatever you want them to do, replanting trees after forest fires, even if this is socially utile, that doesn't change the fact that you're compelling people to do labor that they don't want to do and that they have no say in the matter.
This is completely indistinguishable from the way that countries like the soviet union used to force young people to go work on collective farms during times of famine.
Maybe I'm getting confused, I think it's actually maoist china, that other shining beacon of democracy, where young people were forced to leave universities in order to go work on farms.
No matter where this has happened in the past, though, it's completely unjust.
When you, first of all, tell people how to work and don't give them any say over it, and secondly, compel them to work without reward, ultimately we don't think that this is justified in any way.
We tell you that individuals should have to consent to any form of labor.
Ultimately, this is what distinguishes freedom from slavery: the ability for people to choose how they devote their labor and to what they devote their labor.
And this principle of economic freedom is completely undermined when you compel people to work on these state projects, whether you call it community service or whether you call it penal farms, ultimately there's no difference between the two.
Our next argument is that this would actually reduce altruism in society.
What happens when you force people to be altruistic, presumably with the threat of going to jail or being fined if they don't do so?
Well, they're going to resent it, just like people resent being told what to do in any other case.
So what's going to happen is that young people, because this is very likely going to be young, strong people compelled to do work and not older people, young people are going to refuse to participate in any other form of volunteering.
And this attitude that they have, that volunteering is something that they're compelled to do rather than that they choose to do, is going to follow them throughout their life.
You will have an entire generation of people who grew up seeing any sort of service to the community as something that they are forced to do by soldiers, rather than something that they opt in to doing.
And ultimately, whereas right now liberal democracies have very high rates of giving and volunteering, that's going to collapse as people no longer feel the personal impulse to help others, to be altruistic.
And our final point is about the economic tradeoffs that this community service has.
Right now, while it's true that young people are unemployed at a rate of ten to twenty percent, depending on what liberal democracy you live in, a much higher rate than the general population, young people still contribute an enormous amount to the economy.
There are tens of millions of people my age in the US economy right now and almost all of them, something like eighty eight percent of them, have a job.
So they're contributing to the gross domestic product of the country.
On the other hand, if you force people to go clean up after forest fires in california, they're not really contributing to your nation's productivity.
So we think that there's a tradeoff between this mandatory service and between people operating at maximum productivity, which will ultimately harm your country's economy.
For all these reasons, community service ought not be mandatory.
Thank you.