Prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
So prenatal diagnoses are basically when doctors go in and examine the fetus while it's still in the mother's womb at various stages of development.
In this way they can detect physiological problems with the fetus, such as for instance, if the baby is going to be born with a certain disorder, or if the fetus is going to be unable to brought to term and is ultimately going to result in a miscarriage, and I'm sure lots of other information that I don't know about, but that would be evident to doctors.
So with that in mind we think that states should require that women undergo prenatal diagnosis.
And we're going to say that these are harmless procedures that ultimately could be done at the same time as other routine health exams.
So our first argument is that this leads to the maximum amount of information for doctors.
If you are an OBGYN and you are making decisions about a patient's health, you need to actually have access to all of the information about that patients health.
For instance if you don't know if someone is at risk of having a miscarriage, it's difficult to plan a course of treatment for that individual.
We tell you that these prenatal diagnoses make it easier to know if someone is at risk of something like a miscarriage or is at risk of having a child who is not going to live after birth.
With this in mind doctors can better advise their patients.
We think that doctors have a moral obligation to provide the best information possible to their patients.
This is true one, because they take an oath to do no harm and implicitly to do the maximum good for their patients, and two, because patients have little access to information and are dependent on doctors to give them good advice.
We think therefore that the state would be justified in stepping in, in order to ensure that doctors are actually facilitated in offering this advice.
Some people might not want these prenatal exams.
We think that it should be mandatory anyway because doctors can't give them many forms of useful advice about their child and this information or the lack thereof would actually be harmful to the child if not provided.
So we think it would be justified for the state to intervene in order to give doctors maximum information.
Our second argument is that this allows us to assess the quality of life for the fetus.
So for instance you may have a fetus that if brought to term would be born and possibly live a short period of time in tremendous agony, and at that point it's probably better to abort it before it reaches a later stage of development in order to maximize the quality of life.
Or I suppose in this instance to minimize the poor quality of life.
This is unfortunate but sometimes this is the case.
We think that it's always better to have that information so we can make the most humane decision for the fetus, rather than to just let nature take its course.
We don't live in the stone age anymore so there's no reason to treat people like we do.
Not getting access to this information is ultimately condemning some individuals to live very short, very painful lives when that could be avoided overall.
Our third argument is that this should be required because it's a low cost, high reward medical procedure.
If you are a state government for instance, there's very little cost to requiring that a citizen go and get this kind of prenatal diagnosis.
It probably only costs a few dollars in terms of an ultrasound.
We tell you at that point that you're spending very little money on what amounts to a sort of preventative care to avoid problems down the line.
And that doing this can save huge costs later on.
For instance, if someone is going to need an expensive surgery, if nothing is done, but there is an ability to prevent it because we have access to this information, then you've just saved a huge amount of money for the public.
Health care funds are normally not completely elastic.
What that means is that if one patient consumes resources, there are fewer resources for other people.
With that in mind, we think that government should always seek to use preventive care or to assess problems before they become serious so that they can spend more money on people who need immediate urgent care.
With this in mind we think that prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
Thank you.