We should not adopt atheism.
So, rachel has framed this debate as being one in which we're comparing a world in which everyone is an atheist to the world that we have now.
So I'm going to argue that the world that we have now, in which there are many different views about god and theism and religion, is preferable to one in which everyone did not believe in god.
My first argument is about why a diversity of views is ultimately good.
In the world today, there are thousands of different views about divinity and religion, and ultimately this leads to a huge amount of conflict in the world, as rachel pointed out.
But it also allows people to grow as individuals, to explore their own beliefs, to learn from other cultures, to travel in order to learn more about their faith, and has many other benefits to every individual in the world.
If everyone in the world had exactly the same beliefs about god, then people would have less of an opportunity to learn from one another, to exchange cultural knowledge that often goes along with religion and generally speaking, the world will be a more boring and less vibrant place.
So we think that this diversity of views is ultimately good, especially given what we tell you next, that new divides would ultimately replace ultimately replace religion.
So, rachel tries to pin that many of the conflicts in the world today on religious differences.
But we tell you that even in a world in which everyone was an atheist, or a world where everyone was catholic or had all of one belief, you would still experience different conflicts.
People of different races would still experience discrimination.
Sexism would still exist.
Classism would still exist.
Nationalism would still exist.
All of these things that divide us would still be a problem.
Getting rid of religious differences might allow some people to live together better, but other philosophical existences might also exist.
The soviet union and the people's republic of china were both atheist countries but due to their different beliefs about marxism, the two countries almost went to war in the late sixties, for instance, over ideological divides.
So we don't think that these problems rachel points out are unique to religion.
What this means is that all of the benefits of religion, which I'll talk about in just a moment, would be lost, but the worst harms that rachel identifies are intrinsic to human belief and ideology, so they wouldn't go away if we got rid of religion.
They would just express themselves through political ideology or some other set of beliefs.
So we think that the tradeoff in this debate is clear, and that ultimately it is much better to have the diversity of views that we have right now.
But what we want to talk about next is why religion is ultimately a good thing.
We'd like to point first to the huge amount of art and literature that is produced by religious artists.
Many of the world's most famous buildings, for instance, such as the hagia sophia, are religious buildings and were created out of a religious sense of purpose.
Religion ultimately is something that can unite people of many different backgrounds to work towards a common goal, as cathedrals all across europe can attest.
Similarly, we see many large and impressive temples, statues and other religious edifices around the world.
And a tremendous amount of the world's great literature is also religious.
From the bhagavad gita to the bible to the koran, many of the world's most famous works of literature have been expired by religious sentiments.
And even those that aren't explicitly religious texts are still heavily influenced by religious beliefs of their authors.
There wouldn't be any milton, for instance, if milton hadn't been a christian.
So ultimately we tell you that religion can inspire some of the most important parts of our culture to a higher purpose and to a higher cause and that everyone is better off as a result, because of the beauty and art which is created because of religious belief.
It causes people to work towards an end larger than themselves, and we think that that's something that's intrinsically valuable.
For all these reasons, we should not adopt atheism.
Thank you.