We should not ban fishing.
We're going to explain why it's necessary to manage populations, why people should be able to choose to fish if they want to, and also what this would do to the economy in our speeches today.
So the first thing that I'm going to talk about is managing populations.
Basically, stewardship through fishing.
Recognize that there are many fish species that no longer exist in the same kind of natural environment that they did a few hundred years ago.
Many species no longer have the same natural predators or live in very different parts of the country than they used to traditionally.
What this means is that the only way to manage those populations is for human beings to get involved.
If you have a type of fish that used to be eaten by bears and now there's no more bears left in your part of the country, then people need to come in and fish for these fish in order to prevent their population from getting out of control, which might be very damaging to the environment as a whole.
Similarly, many fish today are invasive species where they live.
We think that it's necessary to be able to do things like, kill lionfish in the caribbean, when they're damaging the native fish populations and putting those species in jeopardy.
So, someone might say that this is a fringe case and I'm sure that danny would say so.
But ultimately it is important that we can manage wildlife populations responsibly, and part of that means hunting or fishing when a population needs to be reduced.
Therefore we should not ban fishing.
The next thing that we talk about is personal freedom.
We think that generally governments ought differ from telling people what they can and cannot do unless there's clear harms to other people.
If I want to go out and catch some rainbow trout next weekend, that doesn't harm anyone else.
As long as there are responsible regulations on when and where people can fish, there's no reason why it can't be done sustainably.
Therefore we ought differ to letting people do what they want which presumably is just to go fishing at this point.
We think the other team needs to explain why it is inherently unacceptable to fish especially if you're not actually harming the animals since many times you can order fishers to throw them back and that way they get the sport and the fish aren't really harmed because they're not intelligent enough to understand what's going on when they're being caught.
So we think that there's just no harm to any other party and clearly there's a benefit to the fisher in terms of self actualization.
And our final point is that this would be very damaging to the economy of some regions.
Many countries around the world rely heavily on fishing as a source of food and income.
We think that it would be really damning to those seaside areas if you took away fishing as a potential source of revenue.
It's not like any alternative is immediately going to come in when you get rid of fishing.
Instead you're just telling people who live near the ocean that they can't use natural resources that they've relied on for hundreds of years.
In many cases, such as the first nations peoples in canada, these groups might have been relying on fishing in a certain area for centuries in order to sustain their livelihood.
We think that you're basically guaranteeing that these people will face unemployment or severe reduction in their quality of life if you order them to stop fishing.
In conclusion, we need to manage our resources better, not tell people not to use them at all.
There's no reason why through good stewardship and good regulation we can't come up with a way that people can fish fairly and without damaging the environment too significantly.
People deserve the right to choose to do what they want and if we can create laws and regulations that allow them to do so, then we ought.
Therefore, rather than banning fishing, we should just increase the enforcement and increase the amount of regulations that surround that activity.
For all of these reasons we should not ban fishing.
Thank you.