We should ban gratuities.
We think that tipping staff at restaurants, drivers, and similar employees, should not be permitted.
We think that there should be laws preventing people who provide services from asking for gratuities, and that business owners should have to pay all of their staff a fair wage rather than rely on tipping.
So in jurisdictions where the minimum wage is lower for tipped staff than for other people, we think that they should be given the same minimum wage as anyone else, or even be paid the same amount that they are currently with tips.
A few points for our side.
The first is that we think tipping leads to lower wages.
When you have lots of people tipping a certain type of profession, for instance waiters and waitresses in the united states, we think that there's a natural inclination for business owners to pay those people less.
For instance, if you own a restaurant in america, you know that basically all of your clients will leave a fifteen to twenty percent tip for the staff.
So you know that your staff are going to get paid this tip and you're able to pay them less, and then if they complain, tell them oh, but you get tips.
Now, in some jurisdictions, people are guaranteed to get a minimum wage if they make less than that amount, but oftentimes this is used as an excuse by business owners to pay people very little and treat them relatively poorly.
For instance, in many US states the minimum wage is as low as two dollars for people who are expected to receive tips, so if you work on a slow day, or if your business owner has some sort of unsavory tactics like intentionally giving certain employees a job where they're less likely to be tipped, then you can end up making much less money.
It's also difficult for people to plan and budget when the amount that they take home every day is entirely dependent on the generosity of the patrons.
It's completely out of a waiter's control whether a person orders a huge expensive meal and leaves a big tip, or whether they just get a cup of coffee and leave a few cents.
So we shouldn't punish them for this, especially when the business owners are still making a lot of money off of every order.
They can afford to pay people, they just don't want to.
And if a restaurant is so badly run that it would go out of business if they had to pay their staff a few dollars more an hour, then maybe they should go out of business rather than be subsidized by the generosity of the people who eat there.
Our second point is that ultimately tipping is demeaning to workers.
It effectively requires them to grovel and beg in order to receive a wage that they need from the people that they serve.
Waitresses, for instance, are often forced to just sit there and take huge amounts of abuse that other staff would never be expected to put up with, in order to get a huge tip.
For instance, if people don't like their food or how it's prepared, oftentimes you'll see them yell at waitresses or treat them very poorly and then leave no tip.
So this not only forces the waitress to be extremely polite and take all of this abuse in the hopes of getting a tip, but also puts them at risk of not being paid at all.
We can see the same things with drivers being taken advantage of, such as being asked to idle and then not being paid for it, when people have all this leverage over their service employees based on tipping.
So we think that ultimately, it reduces these people to a lower standing than the people who would be tipping them.
It creates a huge power imbalance between the customer and the employee.
Whereas normally the employee would be able to refuse someone service or tell someone that they're being rude, ultimately they can't do that when they rely on this person's good will in order to receive any amount of money.
And this is only exacerbated when you have larger imbalances of power.
When wealthy people or people from wealthy countries visit poorer areas, oftentimes a tip from someone visiting can make a huge difference to someone's life, which means that these people are even more incentivized to grovel or beg from these people, which we think is demeaning to them.
They deserve to have the same dignity as anyone else, and tipping takes that from them.
So for all these reasons, we should ban gratuities.
Thank you.