We should limit the right to self-defense.
Right now in many jurisdictions, such as all common law countries, people have the right to reasonable self-defense.
So, if some maniac is running at you with a knife in the US or britain, you would have the right to attack that person to keep them from trying to harm you.
We think that this right should be severely curtailed in most instances.
Our first argument is that violence begets violence.
We think that ultimately when you allow this so-called right to self-defense, what you actually end up with is a more violent society overall.
People are very bad at making these decisions, as I'll explain in just a moment, but because of that, you lead to a feedback loop where everyone thinks that they are acting in self-defense, even if actually they're being completely unreasonable.
To use a perhaps not so recent but quite famous example, george zimmerman was a man in florida who murdered a young black man named trayvon martin, who was just walking down the street.
Zimmerman was a virulent racist and self-appointed community watch figure who felt that his neighborhood was being threatened by trayvon martin's presence, even though he was just a high school boy walking down the street, and zimmerman killed him.
Many people in his community thought that zimmerman was acting with reasonable self-defense, and many in the legal community argued that although he made a poor choice, because he believed he was acting in self-defense, that he should be able to take advantage of a legal protection called imperfect self-defense, which is basically when a person's state of mind changes the sentence that they receive.
We think that this is ridiculous, that it becomes an umbrella for people to be racist, to be bigoted, to attack others and be violent, and then to get away with it because, " oh, they thought they were protecting themselves, " or " oh, they were acting in self-defense. "
We think that this leads to more violence overall than in a society in which all violence is very heavily stigmatized and punished.
We would prefer the latter to the former.
Our second argument is about why it's okay for the government to intervene in this instance to take away someone's right to self-defense.
We acknowledge that in some sort of state of nature that people would have a right to defend themselves.
If you lived out in the wilderness, for instance, you would be able to protect yourself from a stranger.
But in a society, we think that it's perfectly okay for the government to limit this, because people make bad decisions when they are afraid.
We think that in the same way that we don't make let people make important decisions if they're drunk, we shouldn't let them make important decisions if they're terrified because similarly, they will not come to good conclusions.
So ultimately, because of the risk of hurting innocent people, we think that the state should intervene and drastically limit this right to self-defense.
We think that in this way you can protect innocent third parties from being harmed by other groups who think that they're acting in good faith.
Our third and final point is that ultimately the right to self-defense is a false freedom or a privilege for some groups that doesn't equally apply to everyone.
Consider, for instance, that if you are a big, burly man who served in the marines, that you're very likely to be able to defend yourself from any attacker.
But if you're a one hundred pound woman, it's much less likely that you'll be able to take advantage of this.
We can see that in many ways it's a very gendered right that only applies to men, and not even to all men.
Because we see that if you have an ethnic minority or a minority religion person defend themselves from a member of the majority group, oftentimes they'll be seen as an aggressor even if you when you were reverse the races, they would be seen as a person conducting self-defense.
So ultimately this is a so-called right that only accrues to men from the most privileged groups racially or religiously in a society.
So we don't think that this right should be granted to those people when it can't be given fairly to everyone.
So for all of these reasons, we should limit the right to self-defense.
Thank you.