We should adopt slow food.
Slow food is a culinary movement that began in italy as a reaction against the proliferation of fast food in that country but now has spread globally, and we think that more and more people ought consider the benefits that this has to offer them and their community when they make decisions about how and where to eat.
So a bit about what slow food is.
Slow food focuses on preparing foods for each individual rather than mass producing foods, on using local and traditional measures rather than industrializing food production, like you'd see at something like mcdonald's, and oftentimes focuses on providing a better quality of food, both in terms of health and also just the the appeal of the food to the consumer.
This is something that people can do at home but there are also restaurants that are devoted to the principles of slow food, and this includes many traditional restaurants around the world.
So our first argument is that this would be good for promoting regional culture.
I read that the beginning of slow food was when mcdonald's was going to open up near the spanish steps in rome, and people were up in arms that such a major site for italian culture was going to have a mcdonald's there.
Having been to rome now, I would say that there's a mcdonald's on every corner, but one great thing about the slow food movement is that it gives people an alternative that really captures what that region is about.
The slow food that you get in rome is going to be different than what I can get in los angeles, is going to be different than what you can get in tel aviv or kuala lumpur or whatever city you pick.
By its nature, it encourages people to cook the way that their parents taught them and to take their time with it, so this encourages people to learn about their local food culture and also to pass it on to their children, something which may not happen if people become more dependent on a sort of globalized, very industrialized type of food production that we sometimes see.
So I think that's a major benefit and that this can ultimately be an important tool in preserving local food cultures around the world.
And if we've seen anything from this kind of foodie revolution of the last few decades, it's that there absolutely is value to having diverse food cultures around the world and that it's part of what makes different regions special and what gives people their identity.
So we think it's something that's worth preserving absolutely.
Our second argument is about people's health.
When people put a lot of effort into preparing their food and doing things the right way, we think that they're much more aware of what they eat.
Nobody is going to just make a cup of soda and put ten tablespoons of sugar into it or whatever is in a cup of pepsi if they can actually see what they're putting into their body.
Fast food and processed food have hidden from people how unhealthy our diets are, how full of corn syrup and sodium and all of these other awful things that we wouldn't normally eat our diets have become.
But with slow food people are eating the way that people are supposed to.
They're eating healthier diets and because of that, people are able to better control their weight and oftentimes live longer and avoid illness.
So I think that there's a very real benefit to people's health from the slow food movement.
And the last thing that we'd argue is that this can help to build communities.
So I think this is distinct from regional food because oftentimes you don't have to be from a region or involved in a region to appreciate their cuisine.
One of the great things about the slow food movement in the US has been that we've seen a lot of new fusion cuisines emerge and a lot of new types of food emerge that people wouldn't have seen otherwise, and this has facilitated the development of new communities such as vegetarian and vegan communities around the united states.
Whereas previously, because a lot of mass produced food doesn't cater to these groups, it would have been much more difficult to have many people convert over to veganism or vegetarianism, much less to have a community, today we have many restaurants that serve those groups and offer them a place to have a community.
So for all of these reasons, we should consider adopting slow food.
Thank you.