We should not to protect the free market.
The other side has claimed that we should get rid of sin taxes effectively and that we shouldn't have protectionism in the economy, but people actually want both of these things for good reason even if they've been duped into thinking that they want the free market.
So our first point is about development.
If you are a developing country, failure to implement protectionism will prevent you from ever becoming a developed country.
The only way for a nascent industry to grow to the point that it can compete globally is if the state takes action to protect it.
For instance, south korea is like the poster child for a country going from very poor backwards dictatorship to very prosperous democracy.
They did so with huge amounts protectionism and government subsidies for big corporations like hyundai and samsung.
There's no way that hyundai would have been able to compete with toyota or ford, these massive international companies that have huge reach and huge amounts of r and d, without state protection.
In particular, many companies that are as large as ford can afford to run at a loss in a certain country to drive nascent competition out of business.
We think that it's quite likely that if a country like south korea had just had a free market for cars, that it would have been impossible for domestic production to take off and that without subsidies they wouldn't have been able to compete with foreign companies that were more entrenched and that had more economies of scale.
So the only way to build up an industry that will ultimately make your country more successful is to use protectionism.
We can see other examples of this for instance in russia.
There was a huge resurge in the free market in russia in the early nineteen nineties and an end of state subsidies and the economy collapsed by one or fifty percent, so that there was half the GDP in nineteen ninety five that there was in nineteen ninety one.
This is because the unregulated free market does not provide for the people, it allows international firms to come in and strip wealth out of a country and ship it back to their home country.
These firms don't care at all about the countries that they hurt or the people who suffer just about maximizing shareholder value.
So ultimately we think that this is disastrous for countries that are trying to transition to democracy or liberalism.
And our second argument is that the free market leads to a race to the bottom and this is where I'll respond to what rachel said about sin taxes.
Right now, most people probably don't want to live in las vegas.
While it's fun to go and visit and you can buy alcohol and cigarettes very cheaply and you can see a cheetah and some sort of circus production that wouldn't be allowed in your home state and there's prostitutes and all this other great stuff that people like to go and see very few people want to live there because people like to have a certain conservatism around their home.
In other words, these sin taxes serve to prevent antisocial behavior.
When you make it more difficult for people to drink early in the morning or to buy alcohol at twenty four hours of the day or when you make cigarettes more expensive, you discourage these behaviors that society frowns upon.
So it might be true that in a perfectly free society people would be able to go out and buy a handle of gin at three AM and drink it in front of an elementary school, we probably don't want people doing that.
That's just not the society that most people want to live in and since this is a democracy we think that people should have a say in what behaviors are encouraged and discouraged.
Sin taxes are an effective way to discourage behavior because they make it more expensive and if people still choose to engage in it than they have to pay more money into the society that they're harming with their antisocial behavior.
So we think it's clear that the free market would just be a race to sort of anarchy where we don't punish certain antisocial behaviors and that we would lose out on bringing in revenue when people do act antisocially.
For all these reasons, we should not protect the free market.
Thank you.