We should not introduce a carbon tax.
Rachel presents this as a way to reduce the effects of global warming and to make people internalize the costs of their environmentally unfriendly actions.
But we are going to explain to you that actually this presents an unfair burden on some firms, it will be passed along to consumers, and it will consume political will in an unfavorable way.
So with that in mind, our first argument is about how this is going to be an unfair burden on some companies.
Right now everyone in the world benefits from the fact that american manufacturing burns lots and lots of cheap coal.
If you've ever gotten MRI or taken a drug produced in the united states then you benefited from the fact that electricity here is extremely cheap compared to most other countries.
Ultimately everyone is better off in some ways because the united states has such cheap energy which is very dirty energy.
What this means is that it's unfair to punish only the companies that are literally releasing the pollution into the atmosphere.
Yes, some company that actually makes the plastic casing for an MRI machine are the ones literally polluting the atmosphere, but everyone who goes to a hospital is benefiting from that.
What this means is that we have a collective responsibility to deal with this problem rather than just to punish one actor.
It's unfair for us to scapegoat a handful of companies that happen to release toxic chemicals while we rely on all of the proceeds of that actual pollution.
Which leads nicely into our next point, which is that this would all be passed on to consumers.
What happens when american goods are more expensive?
It means that consumers in the US and around the globe are going to pay higher prices.
The US is the world's leading food exporter by far.
So what does it mean worldwide if suddenly we punish farmers for using more fertilizers or more fossil fuels in the food production process?
Well, it means that american corn and grain and tomatoes are all going to be more expensive.
Because millions of people in other countries and the united states rely on low american food prices to be able to afford to eat a healthy diet, what this does is punish those people and make it harder for them to have a good quality of life.
Ultimately, there are better ways to fight climate change that don't pass on the cost to those who can least afford to bear it.
And the other side might say that companies won't be able to raise prices because of competition but ultimately no other country is exporting millions of tons of corn, so there is no meaningful competition.
If this is a nationwide tax in the US then many american goods will simply be more expensive and that's grossly unfair to the people who rely on those goods to live.
We think that ultimately this is very unfair both to certain companies and to the people who rely on their products.
Our last argument is that this is a poor use of political will.
If you follow american politics then you know that it's almost impossible to pass new tax laws here.
In fact, our country hasn't had a budget in years.
Instead we rely on these sort of stop gap short term spending bills.
As a result everything is more expensive than it should be because the government can't negotiate for anything in bulk and ultimately no one ever knows what's happening.
It's a disaster, but that's the status that our country is in.
We think that you would be much better off trying to fix the tax system and pass a budget than to implement this carbon tax.
The reason why these are mutually exclusive is that there's a limited amount of political will for any sort of increase in taxes, whether that be a consumption tax or whether that be a pollution tax.
So if we're going to fix the country and pass a budget we can't also increase the carbon tax.
For all of these reasons, we should not introduce a carbon tax.
Thank you.