We should not cancel the affordable care act.
So the affordable care act, more commonly referred to as obama care, is the current set of laws surrounding health insurance in the US.
It requires everyone to purchase health insurance that makes meets certain requirements or else face penalties on their taxes at the end of the year.
We have a few reasons why we think that canceling the ACA would ultimately be worse than continuing it.
The first thing I'd like to point out is that the reason why health care costs have gone up under the affordable care act is because all of the healthy people are subsidizing the sick people.
People who have chronic illnesses such as many people who are elderly or people who just have lifelong illnesses used to just be completely out of luck.
For instance my mother has is immunocompromised and for years she couldn't get health insurance because before the ACA no one had to cover her so no one was willing to and the kind of premium insurance companies that would cover her were much too expensive for an ordinary family to afford.
Now because of obamacare all of the healthy people in the country are partially subsidizing her cost of insurance.
What happens when you get rid of the affordable care act is costs go down for most people and some people die.
That's the real trade off here.
It makes a lot of people very uncomfortable to talk about but if you take away health insurance from people, someone is going to die.
Now, conservatives who oppose the ACA would say oh anyone can walk into an emergency room but if you're immunocompromised or you have multiple sclerosis, walking into an emergency room might stabilize you for twelve hours but it's not going to change the fact that you'll still die in a few months because your disease is no longer getting treated.
The only way to help these people is to make everyone chip in.
Why is this fair?
Because ultimately there's a lottery for of birth for who's going to have a chronic illness.
If you stood behind a veil of ignorance that completely removed your knowledge of who you are and what your experiences are, you would want society to take care of people with serious illnesses because it might affect you.
Now, in the real world people are selfish and don't want to help anyone but themselves, but society should strive to be better than those most base instincts and should strive to take care of people who need our help, not just turn them to the wolves.
So, with that in mind, what will happen if we actually repeal the ACA in general?
Prices will actually go up even faster.
Right now there's a cap on how much prices can go up year to year and they always go up the maximum amount, which is obvious.
Why wouldn't the insurance companies take as much of your money as they can?
If you take away the cap, prices will go up even faster since insurance companies now will have no regulation to stop them from jacking up prices.
So even for people who were angry that they're paying for grandma's cancer medication, their costs are still going to go up if you get rid of the ACA.
They're never going to go down because insurance companies are profit seeking and have no reason to want your premiums to go down.
Someone might say oh but they would have to compete, but the competition is actually a farce because there's usually only one or two insurance companies in a given area and there's an enormous barrier to entry for any new insurance company on the order of billions tens hundreds of billions of dollars.
But the last thing I'd like to point out is that any replacement will almost certainly be worse.
If you repeal the affordable care act, who gets to decide a replacement?
Paul ryan and his band of goons.
So it's very likely that any replacement will be favorable for rich retirees and upper middle class white people and completely screw over anybody who lives in an inner city or isn't white or has special needs.
So ultimately the ACA is deeply flawed and we need universal healthcare, but the replacement will be some sort of strange conservative wet dream that ultimately leaves many people without lifesaving care.
For all these reasons, we should not cancel the affordable care act.
Thank you.