We should not abolish monarchies.
So, in this debate, we're talking about constitutional monarchs rather than people like the king of saudi arabia, who have actual power.
So, I'm imagining monarchs like the dutch queen or the english queen, who exist as the head of state but in practice do relatively little in terms of actually the government of the country.
Three arguments for our side: the first is about public popularity.
In many countries around the world, monarchies have been abolished through popular referenda.
But in the countries which retain their monarchs, places like the united kingdom, the monarchs are extremely popular, and people want to retain them, whether for reasons of culture, religion or tradition.
A good example of this that comes to mind is that australia had a referendum a few years ago about whether or not they wanted to become a republic, and it was overwhelmingly defeated.
So we can see that the people who have monarchs right now aren't being forced into this awful authoritarian system.
They're voting on whether or not they want to continue a tradition that goes back to the time of their country's founding or, for some very old countries, back to the middle ages.
We think that, in general, if a policy is popular with most of the people and has no harms to others, and indeed we don't see whom a monarchy harms, then it probably ought be continued, especially when it's a cultural and religious institution.
For instance, queen elizabeth is the head of the church of england and also represents the the scope of english history to the people in her country.
Our second argument in favor of the monarchy is is about the tourism that they bring in.
Millions of people go to london every year to see the royal family and their palaces and all of the sort of pomp and splendor that surrounds them.
The british government brings in much more money in result of taxes than they spend on the monarchy, and that's to say nothing of the tourism benefits to private businesses that accrue because of the monarchy.
Now, the other side might say people would still go visit places like buckingham palace even if there was no queen living there, but it's not so clear that people would be able to.
Because in instances when private palaces are the property of the monarch, they would become private property if the monarch weren't the head of state.
So we can't just say that the benefits would transfer over immediately.
Certainly the queen would receive a much larger part of the proceeds of her popularity than she does right now when they go to the state.
But what's more, the kind of anachronism of a monarchy is one of the factors that draws people to visit these sites in the first place.
Not many people go to the old governors' palaces that were built for royal governors in america anymore, but similar buildings associated with the monarchy in canada are more popular because ceremony and importance continues to be imbued there.
So we think that tourism and the money that it brings in is a very practical reason not to abolish the monarchy.
But our final point is more political.
In countries where the monarch serves as the head of state, they're effectively a non-political locus for the government's legitimacy.
Contrast this with more political presidential systems.
In a country like , say, india, where the president is the head of state but not the head of government, the president doesn't pass laws although they may sign them to give them legitimacy, but these countries effectively have a president act instead of the monarch.
The difference is that the president is necessarily a political figure.
If you have to be elected to your office, then some people didn't vote for you, and you won't represent your country as well to those people.
So we think that given the choice between having a locus of power, where the person is beloved by almost everyone and seen as apolitical, and one in which a large portion of the people were not supportive, it's better to have that apolitical locus of power in order to maximize the legitimacy of your state.
So for all these reasons, we should not abolish the monarchy.
Thank you.