We should fight the BDS movement.
So BDS, boycott divest and sanctions, is an international movement that wants to basically attack israel for their treatment of the palestinians in a way comparable to what the international community did to force an end to apartheid in south africa.
So I think that what this debate really comes down to is whether BDS is an effective movement that ought be continued.
A couple of arguments on our side: the first is that BDS won't actually help the palestinians.
There are a few reasons why this is true.
The first is that BDS actually has entrenched support for israel in the united states.
Because of the configuration of the international community right now, as long as israel has the US as a staunch ally, it doesn't matter if two hundred other countries oppose them.
They're going to be completely fine.
They'll still be integrated into the global economy, and no one will be able to touch them militarily.
And that's just not going to change because of BDS.
If anything, the narrative that BDS has created is that israel is under siege like they were during the sixties and early seventies, rather than that israel is a really powerful country that actually is able to impose its will on its neighbors and the palestinians, which is probably more true today.
Especially for older american conservatives, BDS just sounds like the same kind of rhetoric that was used by people who hated israel and wanted to kill all the jews in the sixties.
So essentially, it's only entrenching american support by people who probably mean well but don't understand how the situation has changed in the last forty to fifty years.
Therefore, we don't think that there's a clear path for BDS to help the palestinians.
And since the purpose of this movement is to end the mistreatment of palestinians by the israeli government, to help them get sovereignty, and to help them be treated as equal citizens in israel, and since this movement has no path to doing so, we should obviously fight against it because it's hindering our ability to actually help people.
It's using political capital and making in an inefficient way, and it's making people who support the palestinians look like they're doing things that are inefficient and actually counterproductive.
And our second argument is that the BDS movement has just been really poorly managed and poorly implemented, and has probably done more harm than good because of internal problems, not just external ones.
To give an example of this, BDS is like a hot topic at american universities right now.
But unfortunately, it's not people who are really well-informed about these issues who are leading the BDS movement in america.
It's americans who, frankly, are not jewish or palestinian, so they're not really as connected with the issues as they could be and who don't understand any of the issues on a fundamental level.
So many of the leaders of the student movement for BDS in the US right now, like students for justice in palestine, are frankly idiots who don't understand what they're talking about, and it's so frustrating when you're on a college campus.
My college roommate was israeli and very favorable towards treating the palestinians better obviously, but completely got shut out of any meetings about the topic because people would just say, " you're an israeli jew, therefore, you're bad, " which is one reason why a lot of people have said that the BDS movement is anti-semitic.
If you look at its leadership, there are disproportionately few jews considering how many jews in the diaspora and in israel are very invested in helping the palestinians.
And I frankly do think that there's a lot of anti-semitism and anti-semitic narratives in the BDS movement.
So, ultimately, what this has done is that the BDS leadership, because they're incompetent at best, have associated helping the palestinians with hating jews, which couldn't be further from the truth.
These two things shouldn't have anything to do with each other.
Many jews believe it's against jewish values the way that israel's treating the palestinians right now, but the narrative now has gotten so toxic that all jews feel like they have to oppose BDS and oppose palestinians in the diaspora, and ultimately, I think that american jews should be some of the first allies of the palestinians.
So for all of these reasons, because it won't help the palestinians and because it just atrociously poorly run, we should fight the BDS movement.
Thank you.