We should abolish trade barriers.
By this, we mean that countries should liberalize their trade regimes.
They should end tariffs, they should end import duties, and excise taxes, and all of these other things that make it more expensive for there to be trade.
We would like to see every country have the kind of free trade that exists right now in the european union between countries like germany and france, where goods can move just as cheaply as they can domestically.
We have a couple of main arguments for our side today.
The first is that everyone will be wealthier as a result, and the second is that this will promote international cooperation.
First, why everyone benefits from this.
There's an idea in economics called comparative advantage.
The idea here is that every country can produce something in such a way that the whole world's economy is optimized.
All right.
So you might be thinking, " well, surely, countries like america and britain can produce everything better than very poor countries, " but even if that were true, let's imagine that britain was so efficient that they could produce everything better than anyone else in the world, which may have been true early in the industrial revolution, it's still better to have other countries produce different things.
Why?
So, let's say that britain can make computers, and cars, and tee shirts all really well and that bangladesh can make tee shirts but not computers or cars.
Clearly, it would be better to have britain focus all of their efforts on making computers and cars and ditch tee shirts completely and let bangladesh do that, even if bangladesh isn't as good at it.
Why?
Because this will maximize the amount of computers and cars and actually maximize the amount of tee shirts in the system as well or, perhaps, not maximize, but they'll exist at the optimal equilibrium with one another, and this applies even outside of that kind of facile example to all goods.
It's always going to be better for some countries to do low effort, or low wage, or less skill-based labor, and other countries to do more skill-based labor.
With free trade, you come closer to that kind of optimal balance between all of these different goods.
So we think that this will ultimately be good for everyone because you'll get the best balance of cheap cars, cheap electronics, cheap consumer goods like shoes and clothes that you can possibly have.
So that's the main reason why we think this is so important, is that it drives down the cost of goods which, bear in mind, by the same turn, will also increase the standard of living, especially for people in the developing world.
Our next argument then is that, ultimately, this will promote international cooperation.
Why is this true?
When two countries rely heavily on trade with one another, they're much likely less likely, I should say, to enter into a conflict.
We can see that before the second world war, there was very little trade between most of europe's countries.
Countries like germany, britain, and france had largely independent economies.
As a result, they could still provide for their citizens if they went to war.
After the war, something called the european coal commission was set up.
This is actually the predecessor of the EU and as a result, italy, germany, and france were all trading coal with one another such that no one country could meet their needs for coal which, at that time, was very important, like oil today.
And because of this, it was unthinkable that there would ever be conflict between them, because all three economies would shut down, and none of them could afford to go to war with one another.
This has clearly worked in europe which has entered its greatest period of peace in history since the development of the european coal community, but we think that this could actually be extended around the world.
It's very unlikely that america and china will ever have a cold war the way america and russia did, because they need each other too much, and this makes everyone in the world safer.
It makes massive levels of conflict unthinkable because every country needs every other country.
For all these reasons, we think more trade is good and that liberalization is the best way to get it.
Therefore, we should abolish trade barriers.
Thank you.