We should ban private education.
By this we mean that western countries like the united states and britain should abolish private education, that is to say, educational institutions not managed by the state at every level of education, from primary through tertiary.
So this would include things like private schools run for money, private nonprofit schools like harvard, and also religious schools like notre dame in the united states.
So with this in mind we have three arguments for our side.
First, we think that private education leads to actually harms public education.
Why is this true?
First of all, private universities and schools trade off with public ones in terms of funding.
When students are not paying tuition into public schools that takes money out of the system overall.
There is a certain economy of scale that makes education feasible and when you remove students from that system, it becomes much less feasible.
We see that this is true because in states that have the strongest public universities, like california, like north carolina, we also see very high proportions of students utilizing those public universities.
So we think it's very likely that without a certain level of by-in it's difficult to fund and manage successful public universities.
But aside from that we also think that there's a lack of political will for better public education when the children of the elite go to private school.
Because consider who uses public and private schools and universities when they're both available.
Generally speaking, everyone pays property taxes and income taxes that fund public schools, so only the very wealthy can afford to pay private school tuition in addition to that.
So we tell you therefore that you end up with some universities which are funded for the public good that working class people attend, and some universities that are privately funded that the children of the elite attend.
At this point, there's no reason for the elite to really care about the quality of private education.
We can see the impact of this in the united states where public funding for public universities has fallen dramatically in the last few decades.
From being a majority of their funding in the nineteen eighties, to a small minority of funding in most states today.
We also see that ultimately the quality of educator available for public schools is harmed by the existence of private schools.
We see that teachers are easily lured by higher salaries to work at sometimes more prestigious private schools and that as a result the quality of education is lower than it would otherwise be at public schools.
Our second argument is that private schools create more societal inequality.
We already pointed out that it's most likely to be the children of the elite attending these schools.
But also recognize that they create a new class of elites.
In england they call this the old boy network, where students who go to certain schools like eaton, or certain universities like oxford and cambridge, know one another and network with one another and use this to maintain their own status as elites while other people, who attended state funded schools, are not able to do so.
We see that this is a self perpetuating problem and that abolishing these schools and sending people to schools by geographic region would be a preferable solution.
Our third and final argument is about the standards at these schools.
So far we've focused only on those private schools which are considered largely better than public schools.
But we see that oftentimes this isn't the case.
Many private schools are run for profit, not for the benefit of their students.
We think that ultimately these schools oftentimes don't meet the same standards as state schools and that moreover there is less monitoring of the quality of education that they provide.
So with this in mind, many students may be paying for an education and not receiving a very high quality of education as a result, which makes them worse workers and worse citizens in the end.
So for these reasons we should ban private education.
Thank you.