We should privatize postal services.
In the united states, which I'm most familiar with, the postal service is an independent corporation entirely owned by the government.
Some other countries, I believe, have like government ministries that manage the postal service.
On our side what we envision is either privatizing the existing postal service or allowing privately owned companies to take over the service that's provided.
So in america we might just have a stock offering for the existing postal service.
In a country where there's a ministry that manages this we might solicit bids for private companies to come in and take on those duties.
We will argue that this will provide better service and save money for the government overall.
First, why will this create better service?
If you ever shipped anything using something like DHL or UPS as opposed to the post office you probably observed that it gets where it's going much faster.
There are many fewer packages lost.
The employees are much more professional.
Nobody's going to steal your mail.
It's generally just a better experience.
This is because private companies have to compete with one another.
So at the end of the day, we think the most important issue in this debate is going to be competition.
If the post office is privatized it will have to compete with other businesses.
They won't just be guaranteed to have money coming in from the government.
We think that this will force them to improve the quality of their service and also to be competitive on price.
Know that this will actually probably lead to the price for consumers going up.
Right now in america postage is pretty heavily subsidized but we're okay with making people pay more money to send a letter or send a package through the mail because we don't think it's a good use of your tax dollars to subsidize it.
Realize that every time I mail all my books from one apartment to another because it's cheaper than hiring a shipping company, your taxes are going to subsidize that assuming you pay taxes in the united states.
We think that people should have to pay their own shipping costs.
Ultimately, the post office serves as a subsidy effectively to a lot of businesses especially companies like amazon and ebay that ship huge volumes through the postal service at rates below what the market should demand.
We don't think the public should be subsidizing this.
So you'll get better service and ultimately you won't have to pay as much to subsidize that service on our side of the debate.
But we also think that this will save the government a lot of money.
First, I just talked about how this is a subsidy for private business and how the government won't have to pay that out anymore but we also think that because you can close down the bureaucracy that exists around the postal service right now, the government will be able to save a lot of money.
Realize that a lot of postal workers are union people who have really good pensions and we don't want to take that away from them but this is a huge expense for the government to have to maintain these people's pensions, to have to work with this union.
We think the government should honor its existing pension contracts but that it should stop taking on new ones by privatizing the postal service so that they're not responsible for it anymore.
In addition, right now the governments of most countries require that the post office delivers to every address.
So in america you could have someone living in rural maine two hours from any real city, an hour from the nearest post office, and that person gets mail for the same price that I do living in boston.
We think that this is a huge drain on government resources and basically a subsidy for people who have unsustainable lifestyles by living out in the boondocks and demanding the same service that people get in a major metro area.
We don't think that the government should be subsidizing anyone's lifestyle if they can avoid it especially rural people who are receiving basically more service for their money than urban people.
We think that's unfair.
So at the end of the day, on our side we will lead to better service, we will save money for the government over all, and for these reasons, we should privatize the postal service.
Thank you.