We should criminalize victim blaming.
By victim blaming, we mean a process when people blame victims of sexual assault or other crimes for having been victims of those crimes rather than blaming the perpetrator.
This is, unfortunately, very common with sexual assault.
You hear people say, " oh, you shouldn't have been walking in that area at night ", " oh, you shouldn't have been dressed that way ", and things like that, rather than placing all of the onus on the perpetrator who, of course, is the only person who could have prevented that crime from happening in the first place.
We have three arguments for why we think that this should be criminalized.
The first is that this encourages future crime.
When people grow up in a society that blames victims rather than perpetrators, that means that people are more likely to perpetrate these crimes.
After all, they've internalized a norm that it's not their fault for committing a crime, that it's the fault of the person that they harm and so, if they're able to do this, then it must be okay and it's not really something that they can be blamed for.
This encourages a mindset that perpetuates what you might call rape culture and perpetuates violence throughout society.
It discourages people from taking responsibility for their own actions and admitting that they are being bad people if they act in this way.
Instead, they almost feel as though they're victims of someone else's availability.
And we think that this is one reason why it's so difficult to reduce the rate of sexual assault is that young men, especially, are unwilling to take responsibility for the fact that if they do this type of thing, then they're being a terrible person.
We think that in a world where this is criminalized, you send a strong signal that this isn't acceptable and also that you're able to severely punish many of the people who facilitate future sexual assault, which we think is a good end in and of itself.
Our second argument is about how this creates a risk of self-harm by victims.
If society tells people, " you've just been through this traumatic, life-changing, horrible event.
What are you going to do now? "
And then society blames them and says: you shouldn't have been doing this thing that people do every day that's completely normal.
It's your fault.
You were acting inappropriately.
You deserve to be punished for what happened to you.
We think that this makes it very hard for people to cope, first of all, but also that it can encourage them to have self-destructive behaviors, whether that be because it promotes mental illness and substance abuse as a way to cope or because it puts people into a position where they believe that they deserve to be punished, if they live in a culture that does punish people for being victims.
We think that, obviously, this can have huge harms to people's physical and mental well-being, and that it can prevent them from ever really coming to terms with what's happened to them and, most importantly, from moving on to lead a healthy fulfilling life afterwards.
This basically traps people in a cycle where they can't get away from what's happened because they've internalized these harmful norms, and we think that that's just unacceptable and that the government needs to step in and do something to signal to them that it's not their fault, that they shouldn't internalize these norms, and criminalization is one way to do that.
But our last argument is more specifically about why this should be a crime rather than a misdemeanor.
In many jurisdictions, defamation is a crime, essentially defaming someone else's character by saying that they did something that they didn't do or trying to change the way people look at them for the worst for something that isn't really their fault.
Victim blaming ought be considered a type of defamation, which is a crime.
Why?
Because you basically assassinate someone's character in the public sphere by blaming them for being a victim of a crime and by asserting that they did something wrong when, in fact, they haven't.
This doesn't seem that different from other cases of defamation, so I think that it should carry criminal penalties at any jurisdiction where defamation carries criminal penalties.
And even in areas where defamation is just a civil offense, we think that all of the harms to someone's well-being discussed above mean that this needs to be a criminal offense.
For all these reasons, we should criminalize victim blaming.
Thank you.