We should abandon voter registration.
A little bit of background before I get into my speech.
Voter registration is a process whereby eligible voters enroll themselves based on where they live, what party they support, and what types of elections they're allowed to vote in for instance local, state, and federal elections.
We think that it would be preferable if instead people could go to their polling place on the day of the election, present some proof of ID, they would be looked up by their social security number or something like that, and automatically be able to vote.
We have a few reasons for why we think this voter registration has to take place a certain amount of time in advance is a bad thing.
So our first argument is that this presents a barrier to voting.
Now I'm sure the other side will say that asking people to fill out a card at the post office two months before the election isn't a serious barrier to voting and indeed whenever I move it's one of the first things I do.
But we should acknowledge that this isn't the case for everyone.
That some people have a much more difficult time getting a voter registration card because of where they live.
Studies have shown that it's much more difficult to register to vote for people who live in inner city areas than suburban ones, for instance, which it just so happens also is a stark racial divide.
But also some people have more difficulty just having the time to do this.
You still have to have time to go to the post office and fill this out and if the post office or wherever else you're allowed to do this is only open from nine to five and you work from eight to six, then you're never going to be able to go and register to vote.
Similarly, if you're involved in full time childcare and you don't have a car it can be very difficult to register to vote.
The other side might say this is marginal but I would say that oftentimes these are some of the people who are worst off in society, who most need to have our help in order to allow them to express their own will and their own interests.
So breaking down every possible barrier to vote is important and therefore, we should get rid of voter registration.
Secondly, this is fairly expensive.
You need staff at many different places like the motor vehicles department and the post office who are trained to register people to vote.
You have to set up and maintain this registry.
You have to provide a way for someone to check you against that registry on voting day.
I think it would be much preferable to just use an existing database like driver's licenses or national ID cards in countries that are civilized enough to have national ID cards, unlike my own, and check against that existing database on election day.
It is redundant to create a second voting database when we already have same information about people stored elsewhere that's actually stored in a more inclusive way.
We could reduce the expense of holding elections on our side by abandoning voter registration as it works today.
And our final argument is that voter registration is unnecessary.
A hundred years ago when very few people had government issued ID's it may have been necessary to have voter registration just so that a database existed.
But as I've already implied, we already have databases such as national ID numbers or driver's licenses and we can check these data bases and therefore we don't need voter registration.
The other side might say that some people don't belong to these data bases but I'm actually not sure this is true.
Everyone has a national ID number or at least everyone who's old enough to vote and similarly although the united states doesn't have a national ID card many countries do and we think it's a good idea and we can register people with a national ID card and then be able to check that database and it has a host of other benefits as well.
Therefore, we can avoid the need for this voter registration database.
For all these reasons, we should abandon voter registration.
Thank you.