We should not discourage internet trolling.
On our side we're not going to defend internet trolling but we think that efforts to curb it by governments or major media companies are unlikely to succeed.
We're going to talk first about why this isn't possible and will actually make the problem worse and then second, about why it's not worth engaging with these trolls.
Finally, I'll do a bit of rebuttal to what we heard in the last speech.
So first, why is it impossible to discourage these types of trolls?
We think that the ultimate cause of trolling is that people want attention online.
When people go on to reddit and make lots of pro russia pro donald trump comments in otherwise fairly liberal and progressive spaces, they don't do so because they care about people genuinely hearing and engaging with their ideas.
They do so because they want attention.
They want downvotes.
They want people to be angry.
They think it's funny to upset other people.
What happens if the government steps in or if major media companies like conde nast who own reddit step in is that these trolls win.
They've gone beyond just provoking the readers of one of their post and they've gotten a major company or even a government to try to respond to their actions.
It basically lets these people invest a tiny amount of energy for a massive response and that's the most gratifying thing possible for these types of trolls.
We think that at the end of the day, this will only make the problem worse.
Right now if you are a troll be it someone paid by the russian government or be it someone in a western country who just likes to upset people, your highest goal is just to get lots of downvotes and to draw lots of attention to whatever nonsense you're spewing but if you know that you can get government attention, there's much more of a reason to focus more of your energy into trolling since you can get a much larger reaction.
So we think that any kind of backlash by the state or by media companies actually creates a perverse incentive for people to troll more and therefore that it would be harmful.
But our second argument is that these trolls just aren't worth engaging with.
We think that it's important to engage with people who have different ideas than ourselves so that there can be discourse and so that the best ideas can win out in the marketplace of ideas but that doesn't mean that all discourse is legitimate or created equally.
We think that it's perfectly legitimate to engage with people who are genuinely in favor of positions that are different from yourself but not people who are saying something offensive or outrageous just to get a reaction.
Those people have no interest in having a dialogue or promoting discourse, they just want to get attention.
People like alex jones don't care about educating and informing people, they just want to attract advertisers because they can show that lots of people are upset about what they've said and in turn lots of people view their program.
In alex jones example we think that if there was some sort of government or large media company backlash against him, like when youtube tried to stop people from watching his videos, this would just encourage more people to seek him out to find out what the controversy was about.
So we see that this would actually leads to the trolls winning again.
It's better not to engage and it's not really worth engaging because you can't change a troll's mind because they don't really believe anything, they'll just spew whatever garbage comes into their mind in order to encourage people to view their program or downvote their comment or whatever their end goal is.
And lastly, the other side is correct that trolling often takes the form of bullying or harmful lies that make people's lives worse but we don't think there's a solution in the form of this official censorship.
We think that at the end of the day, the best solution to trolling is just to ignore it like a bully in elementary school because that's basically what these people are is grown-up bullies.
If an authority figure strikes back it will only encourage them.
We think it's better to just let them be and let them be juvenile and not reward them for with attention.
For all these reasons, we should not discourage internet trolling.
Thank you.