We should not abolish the american jobs act.
Our first reason why we think this is true is that we think that even if the act isn't perfect, it's preferable to the likely alternatives that we would get.
Why is this true?
We see that, certainly, there are things that are wrong with the american jobs act in that it hasn't delivered as many jobs as we would like.
However, given that the current government is very anti-labor, we think it's unlikely that any bill that they pass would be better.
We think that it's quite likely that a bill passed while the republicans control both the house and senate and while donald trump is the president would likely do less to help american workers than the bill that we have right now.
This is true for two reasons.
One: in general, the base of the republicans doesn't benefit as much from the act, so they're less likely to pressure their politicians to support something better.
And secondly, labor is traditionally part of the democrat coalition, not the republican coalition, so we think it's very likely that the republicans would want to spite labor and not implement a better jobs act.
But on top of that, simple deadlock makes it very difficult to pass any significant legislation right now.
Consider, for instance, that the republicans control all of the government but have been unable to replace president obama's health care plan.
The reason why is that democrats won't work with republicans, and the more radical conservative republicans won't work with the moderates.
We think that this would likely be true for the jobs act as well.
Democrats would be unwilling to help the republicans pass a bill, and while moderates would want some guarantees for workers, the conservatives would actually want to remove as many regulations as possible and do as a little to help workers as possible.
So, ultimately, the two branches would be working against each other.
Because of this, I think a deadlock means that what we would receive, in the end, would be inferior to what we have right now.
It's important that we don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.
Certainly, we can imagine better legislation but ultimately, we don't have a way to get from imagining it to implementing it.
At that point, I think that we should not abolish the american jobs act because it seems shortsighted, given who would be making the alternative and how likely it is that we would actually get such an alternative.
But as a second argument, we'd like to advance the idea that it's better to reform existing legislation than try to push through a radical shift.
Why?
The way the american government works is, generally, that congress passes bills that say, " we want x to be done. "
And then, professionals in the executive branch, in places like the department of labor, come up with the actual plans for how to implement what congress wants, because congressmen and women are not experts on the subjects that they make laws about so they have experts in the executive branch make these decisions for them.
At that point, we think it's much easier to just change the way that we implement the law in the executive branch than to implement a new law.
Everyone already is familiar with it so there's less likely to be cost to a transition that is confusing or creates legal ambiguities.
There's less likely to be court challenges, so we don't have to worry about that and the cost and the delays that come along with that.
And in addition, this lets experts have more of a role in the decision-making process.
If we say that we want to enforce the american jobs act differently, then ultimately we can have experts in the executive branch make decisions about how to enforce it or what regulations are ultimately good.
And we think that they'll do a better job than congress will, because they're more informed about the actual issues.
So at that point, I think it's very likely that if we abolished the american jobs act, that ultimately you would make it harder for people in the executive branch to do their job, whereas if we reform it, perhaps amend it in order to improve the legislation, if that's necessary, or just give more leeway to the executive branch, that ultimately we will get better outcomes.
So with these things in mind, ultimately, because the replacement is likely not going to be better and because it makes it harder to actually implement existing regulations, we should not abolish the american jobs act.
Thank you.