The free market should not be protected.
In fact, in the interest of having a spirited and interesting debate, we're going to argue that the free market should be abolished and replaced with a command economy.
Command economies are those which are planned by central planning committees, such as those seen in the people's republic of china today or the soviet union prior to nineteen ninety.
We have two main arguments for why central planning is vastly superior to the so-called free market.
First of all, we think that the free market is a horrible way for a country to develop economically.
To the best of my knowledge, no country has ever gone from being a undeveloped country to a developed country through free market economics.
If you look historically, countries like the US and britain used policies like mercantilism and strong protectionism to prevent the free market from taking hold while they industrialized.
What's more, the soviet union industrialized much more quickly than any country prior to it, and therefore proves that the central planned economy is more effective than traditional market economies at developing.
Most of the asian tigers also had centrally planned economies on some level, whether that means huge amounts of protectionism or nationalized industries, such as south korea had while they were developing.
It is an american myth that the free market is the best way for countries to become wealthy.
It's never happened, and it never will.
The only way for a country to go from being a poor, underdeveloped country to a rich, developed country is to institute protectionism to keep out goods from abroad and to use government control to enforce the sale of the goods that they produce in order to fuel development and industry.
And by doing this, you can get rich enough that a free market makes sense for your country, as israel and south korea have done, but there's no way that the free market will get you from poor country to rich country.
You'll be stuck in development hell like bangladesh instead.
And our second point is that without the free market, it's easier to protect people's freedoms.
Tim is going to tell you that the free market gives people more freedom, and this couldn't be further from the truth.
The free market does a lot for your personal freedoms if you're a rich venture capitalist who wants to invest your money.
If you're a worker, it completely screws you over.
Here's why: you have to sell your labor to the highest bidder, but when all of the bidders collude, your labor is almost without value.
This is why in places like bangladesh right now, even though people have high school degrees, even though people work very hard, they get paid pennies on the dollar compared to americans, who are lazier and not as well educated in many cases.
The only way to protect people is for the state to determine the value of their labor and to set prices for their labor.
In a way, minimum wages are a form of central planning, so we think that those are on our side, but we think it goes beyond this as well.
In the soviet union, for instance, wages for people with certain university degrees were set by region.
So if you lived in moscow and you had a college degree, you made more money than someone without a college degree.
But the difference wasn't that great.
Ultimately, what we can do is ensure that everyone can afford to raise a family and, most importantly, that everyone can afford to buy things.
People having money to consume is essential to the growth of your economy.
So what we do on our side is give people enough money to live, so they have milk and eggs in the refrigerator, and also subsidize our own industries at the same time by assuring that our milk and egg industries have consumers to sell their products to.
This is why a centrally planned economy will always win out over the free market, both in terms of creating growth and in providing people with the necessity of life, and it's why there is never been a famine in a centrally planned economy after the revolutionary period that they go through after a communist revolution.
For all these reasons, the free market should be abolished.
Long live the nineteen seventeen revolution.
Thank you.