Casinos should be banned.
So we are going to argue that government should not permit the construction of new casinos and should gradually phase out old ones.
So these should be casinos in places like las vegas or macau, that would be shut down over time and new ones, like the one being built near boston right now, would not be allowed to open in the first place.
Three arguments for our side: the first is that casinos' business model is coercive.
Basically in order to get people to come in and play their games casinos have to mislead people about the odds of winning.
If everyone knew that ultimately you will always lose money by playing at a casino, then many fewer people would participate.
But instead they choose to portray it such that games like roulette games of chance, where anyone can win, although actually this isn't really true.
We think that ultimately the government needs to step in because you shouldn't be able to uphold contracts between people when one side is coercing or misleading the other.
In other words, when you go to a casino and buy chips, you're entering into an agreement with them but you're doing so on faulty premises, namely the idea that you can win money by playing the games in the casino.
In fact, this isn't really true because their business model is to fleece people.
At that point we think that governments need to intervene, not allow these contracts to be formed, because one side has such an imbalance of power and information over at the other side.
We see that states do this all the time, such as by preventing children from entering into contracts because they walk decision making ability.
The people going to casinos similarly lack access to the information to make good decisions.
Our second argument is that casinos are bad for the communities which host them.
This is a huge debate anytime they want to build a new casino somewhere.
Ultimately we see that while it is true that casinos bring in tourism money, they don't spread that money around to the community.
Generally speaking, when people go to a casino, they stay at a casino hotel, they eat at the casino restaurant and they spend money gambling in the casino.
They don't go around to local landmarks and things like that because in general people travel there with things like all in one vacation plans etcetera, or they go to an area for the purpose of going to this casino.
What that means is that casinos consume a large amount of resources from the community.
Things like obviously utilities, but also taking people who work there for relatively low wages, who aren't doing productive work, because what do you get out of a casino?
But give relatively little back to the community around them.
Small businesses in the community don't really benefit from having these casinos in place.
What's more, it's likely that they bring in lots of unsavory elements.
Groups like organized crime often control casinos even when they're operated in a legal fashion.
What's more, they also encourage things like prostitution, because people expect to have access to that at casinos, and this then brings crime into the community which was absent before.
We can see that places like las vegas are very seedy and not somewhere that many people would want to live.
So ultimately we tell you that casinos are harmful for their communities and that this is a good reason to ban them, because they're bad for the people who have to live around them.
Our third argument is that the alternative world is one with much less gambling and that this is probably a better world.
Gambling is fundamentally very addictive and bad for people.
Many people experience the same kind of reaction to gambling that you or I might to cigarettes.
They feel it's very addictive.
So these people cannot make a rational decision about whether or not they want to continue gambling and things like that.
But people would be very unlikely to start gambling if there were no legal venue to do so.
Relatively few people gamble illegally.
So we tell you that in a world without casinos many fewer people would develop gambling addictions.
We think that this would obviously be good for those people and for society as a whole.
The other side might try to argue that illegal casinos will open up but we just don't see that this is the case in places like new york city where gambling is illegal right now.
So for all of these reasons casinos should be banned.
Thank you.