We should ban full body scanners.
These are machines commonly used at airports, train stations, and certain other public sites, which basically let the operator see either a picture of your naked body or a cartoon rendering of your naked body in order to see if you're hiding a gun or a weapon or some other prohibited material.
In recent years, they've become popular in many developed countries at transportation hubs as a replacement for metal detectors, which can't detect plastic explosives and other threatening objects.
So that's the context for this debate today.
We have two main arguments for why we should completely ban the use of full body scanners.
Our first argument is that these scanners violate people's privacy.
The other side is going to tell you that these don't really show an image of your naked body, or that they only show a cartoon, or that it's not that bad because only a few people see it, but the fact of the matter is that many journalists have discovered that actually what these scanners show is basically an image of your naked body to the operator, despite the fact that groups like the TSA and the ESA have lied about this in the past.
So we think that there's a clear violation of people's privacy when in order to board a train or an airplane, you have to let some stranger view your naked body.
And we think that, in particular, for many groups, such as certain religious groups that value chastity or that value modesty very highly, this is a huge violation of those people's rights to lie to them about whether security officers will be able to see their naked body or to even have that available to security in the first place.
Especially because groups like the TSA or the ESA are not known to be very respectful of passengers, we think it's likely that they will leak this information and not treat it respectfully, as they already have in the status quo.
So we think that this is a gross abuse of people's privacy and that it needs to stop.
But our second argument is that security theater is bad in itself.
I'll say this up front: security at airports does not make you safer.
On multiple occasions, reporters or testers for the US government have proven that you can easily board an airplane in america or the european union with a gun.
It's just not that hard.
The security that we have in place does not do anything to make us safer.
What it does is make people feel safer by limiting their freedom at the airport.
We think there are a few problems with this.
First, it creates a false sense of security.
People think that it's harder to conduct a terror attack now than it was before nine eleven, but actually the TSA has nothing to do with that.
So, ultimately, people are operating under a false assumption that airports are safer because of all these awful things going on around them when, in fact, the cause and the effect are completely divorced.
Secondly, we think that these things unjustly limit people's freedom.
There's no reason why we should have this entrenched system where you can't drink a bottle of water on your way to the airplane, where you aren't able to bring shaving cream with you through security, where you just expect to be groped by some random security agent every time you try to get on a train.
Ultimately, we tell you that people would never've stood for this a few years ago but that the illusion that this is making them safer makes people put up with this.
We think that because the security theater makes people uncomfortable, because it doesn't work, and because it violates our freedom, that it should be banned.
And when I say violates our freedom, I don't just mean, " oh, I want to bring barbasol on the airplane, " I mean our right to do thing like travel through an airport without being molested and harassed.
And lastly, we think these should be banned because their use only entrenches these useless security agencies in our airports and in our train stations.
And for all these reasons, we should ban full body scanners.
Thank you.