We should increase drug testing.
In fact, we think that every employer should have mandatory drug testing several times a year whereas right now most people only take a drug test to get hired at their job not after they've already gotten it unless they're a pro football player or something like that.
We have a couple of arguments for our side this evening, the first is that this would change drug policy.
Right now an enormous percentage of the population in the US and other western countries uses marijuana yet the public perception is that only poor black people and hippies use marijuana and this fuels the war on drugs because people think it's no one like them it's other people.
If it came out that tens of hundreds of millions of people in the west were using marijuana we think it be legalized much more quickly.
Ultimately if everybody realized that their next door neighbor was smoking pot once a week we think it's likely that they would realize that it's actually not dangerous and that we should let people do whatever they want as long as they don't hurt others.
But what's more there are probably a lot of people right now especially middle class white people who smoke marijuana sometimes but don't vote to legalize it because as long as it's illegal they don't really suffer they can just buy from a dealer and all of the harms of the war on drugs are limited to black men living in inner cities especially in but ultimately on this side suddenly everyone would have to bear the cost of the war on drugs you would have rich white people going to before a court being humiliated in public and maybe even going to jail instead of just young people of color and since that's obviously going to be unacceptable to the voters it's likely that drug policy will get changed really really quickly especially when like senators and congressmen and parliamentarians are being revealed as drug users.
So ultimately this could be the best tool possible to end the war on drugs even though it seems counter intuitive.
This will reveal to the public mores are completely out of step with the law and hopefully the law will catch up with the public mores very quickly.
This could save millions of people from going to jail in the next few years so we think that that would be more than worth the inconveniences that this would bring on initially.
And our second argument is that we think that this would lead to fewer deaths overall.
Many people who use drugs ultimately see there life go into a kind of downward spiral after they've been using drugs for a long time.
It's not like after the second time you spoke crystal meth you just tear off your shirt become a raving maniac instead you kind of have a slow decline.
If we could catch people near the beginning of that decline because we could tell this person's using drugs then we think it's likely that we can get people to help that they need.
The other side's going to say that this will just get drug users fired but we think it will get them into a rehab programs.
Once it becomes clear just how many people are using drugs like oxycontin like crystal meth we think it's likely that there will be more funding for rehab programs because everyone will realize that it's effecting their community and not just other people somewhere else.
As a result a few things will happen: one we think fewer people will overdose which will save lots of lives and let people get back to a productive life in society.
Second we think this will increase funding for rehab and sympathy towards these people so that they'll be treated as having a medical condition rather than a criminal problem.
Thirdly, we think that this will allow us to go after the people who are selling these drugs because once we know who the users are it'll be much easier to crack down on the drug dealers.
We think that this really weaken the position of drug cartels in particular since they rely on being able to sell their drugs with relatively anonymy anonymity and now we would have thousands of people that we could convince provide witness against them.
So ultimately because this changes the way we think about drug use and would have many beneficial applications to our drug policy, we should increase drug testing.
Thank you.