We should not increase the length of the workweek.
Right now, the length of the workweek varies from country to country.
In the US, it's forty hours for most workers.
In some parts of the world, like ireland, it's thirty five.
In some countries, it's much higher than that.
We think that, ultimately, because people are now more productive than they once were, because of the effect this would have on unemployment, and because this won't make countries wealthier, that the workweek should not be increased.
The first obvious thing I'd like to say to point out is that contrary to anything the other side of the debate can tell you, working longer is bad for people.
It means that parents spend less time with their children.
It means that students spend less time in school.
And it means that everyone has a less fulfilling life, because working is usually one of the worst parts of people's lives compared to spending time with their friends and loved ones, which is what people really want to do.
So just on that high level, this will make everyone's lives worse and, therefore, we shouldn't increase the length of the workweek, aside from everything else.
They have to engage with that and explain why they're okay with making people's lives less happy on their side.
That said, workers in the last hundred years have become dramatically more productive.
Even in the last twenty years, workers have become dramatically more productive.
This is why even though the populations of countries like japan and germany haven't really increased in a generation, productivity, in the form of GDP, has still increased astronomically.
We think that some of those gains should be passed on to workers in the form of lower amounts of time worked.
All of the benefits of the computer revolution have gone to the billionaires who own major companies rather than the people who work there.
Remember that wages haven't substantially increased in most western countries in forty or even coming up on fifty years, and people work as long as they ever have, while producing much more.
We think that if wages aren't going to go up that the very least we could do is let people work shorter workweeks, maybe four days instead of five or even less, so that they're working to produce the same amount that people produced forty years ago for the same pay.
We think that this would be a good way to let people have happier lives and to do more with their community and their family.
Our second argument is that this would lead to dramatically higher unemployment.
Consider that most companies don't need a certain amount of bodies and chairs or people at a work site, they need a certain amount of what we'll call man hours every week.
So, if a company has a hundred employees and they have forty hours a week that they're working, that company would then have four thousand man hours every week.
If you increase the amount of time that people work up to sixty hours a week, then now you can get rid of a substantial part of your workforce and still get those four thousand man hours every week.
We think that this would drive down the demand for labor, which would actually lower wages in many cases, because there would be more people competing for fewer jobs.
So we think this would be disastrous for the working class.
And aside from that, time worked is not correlated to wealth.
Consider that of the OECD countries, mexicans work, by far, the most.
Mexicans work well over fifty hours a week on average whereas americans work a little over forty, and most europeans work in the mid-thirties, yet every country in the OECD in europe is substantially wealthier than mexico.
So if portuguese workers can work thirty two hours a week and be more productive than mexicans and have higher incomes, then we can see that time worked does not correlate to wealth.
Instead, these are usually a cultural thing.
People are not productive for ten hours a day, even if they're at work.
It's just not really possible.
But people are wasting their time there not being productive.
We think, at the end of the day, that we need to give people's lives back to their own control, that because people are producing more, they can work less, and because this would be really damaging to employment, we don't need to increase the length of the workweek.
Thank you.