Community service should be mandatory.
By community service we mean unpaid work that is done to improve the community that people live in in some way.
So this might vary from things like picking up trash to mowing public grass on the side of the road and anything else of similar nature done by volunteers.
We have three arguments for why we think that this type of community service should be mandatory.
The first is that we think that this would improve the way that people treat their environment.
If people are forced to do work to maintain their community, then it's much more likely that they'll feel invested in its well being.
People who have seen how difficult it is to keep a neighborhood clean are probably less likely to litter.
People who are aware of the expenses that are put into maintaining public property are less likely to damage that property.
Similarly, we think it's more likely that people will take pride in their community when they've had a part in making it a better place.
So not only would this reduce negative behavior because people wouldn't want to have to deal with the effects of that behavior, but it would also reduce antisocial behavior because people would feel more proud of their community in the first place.
So we think that as a result of this people would have more buy-in to the community, to positive values, to things that are social rather than antisocial, and also feel more of a sense of ownership in their community which would ultimately make them more likely to do things for other people and to benefit themselves as well when they help out the people around them.
Our second argument is quite simply that this would be a public good.
Ultimately we think that if people did this that it would reduce the amount of money that the government has to spend on maintaining that community and also moreover that people who aren't able to do this type of work for themselves would be able to benefit.
So for instance, perhaps we would have volunteers mowing lawns for the elderly and that sort of thing.
Become a benefit that accrues from those with the most to give to those who have the greatest need.
So we think that ultimately this would really serve to benefit those people who are worse off in the community.
And our final argument is that we think that it's important to have some sort of service to replace military service.
Most countries today have phased out mandatory military service.
Previously most young men, when they graduated from school, would spend a year or two in the military and learn skills and discipline and other useful habits in that way.
Now instead what we see is that many people, men and women, graduate from school and they don't have a job immediately, they don't have anything to do, and they turn to antisocial behavior.
So whereas before we had the military as a very expensive jobs program, we think that now we could replace it with the more socially beneficial program in the form of this community service.
We could give young people something that would teach them job skills or teach them productive life habits, keep them doing something positive rather than something negative, and also put something on their resume for when they apply for jobs.
So ultimately we think that this would be very beneficial to establishing good character and to providing a type of education that was once provided by mandatory military service.
So ultimately this kind of both practical vocational and civic education that would accrue from this type of mandatory service would be a huge benefit to young people.
Although we think many people might resent having to participate in this when it's first implemented, ultimately because it would be for their own good we think that it's something that society should require anyway.
So for all of these reasons, community service should be mandatory.
Thank you.