We should not abolish zoos.
So we accept the definitions that the other side set, that this is a debate about zoos that exist primarily for entertainment and education of the general public.
I have the bronx zoo in new york city in mind as I go into this debate.
So with that in mind, two arguments for why we shouldn't abolish the sorts of zoos.
First is that they promote public interest in animals well being.
I want to point out that people have to be aware of a problem in order to demand some sort of solution to that problem.
If people grow up not being aware of the impending extinction of lions or pandas for instance, then it's unlikely that those people will ask the policy makers in their country to do anything to change that problem.
When people go to the zoo, that's one of the only times when they're in an environment that exists specifically to make them aware of problems in conservation.
Most people day to day don't see anything on the news or in the paper about, I don't know, animals going extinct.
Unless it's some very very important animal.
So we think that ultimately what happens if you don't have zoos is that people simply aren't aware of these problems so it's impossible for them to demand any sort of change relating to them.
And secondly under this, I'd like to talk about empathy.
People need to have some sort of close connection to animals in order to feel empathy for them.
Seeing animals on national geographic alone is not going to make people want to donate their own time, money, resources, to promote conservation.
So we think that there's a tremendous value to zoos in that people see animals up close.
They look them in the eye and have an emotional connection to them.
Something that is otherwise lacking.
And then the third reason under this is that we think that zoos have a huge role to play in education.
Think about how many children go every year to major zoos and learn about these animals.
It's going to be very difficult for those children to go on to have careers in biology, zoo-oly zoology, veterinary science, if they don't experience these zoos growing up.
Because they're not going to really have the same emotional connection, to tie back to what I was just speaking about, to these animals.
We think that zoos inspire young people to go into certain fields of study and also educate young people about conservation, about ecology, about zoology, in ways that school curricula otherwise likely would not.
So the reason why you should care about all this is that causes, like conservation, like preserving endangered species, would all be more difficult if you didn't have these zoos.
Were they abolished, we think that people would care less about these issues and that less would be done to advance them.
Our second argument is about animal rights.
And I think that this clashes very clearly with what you heard from the last speaker.
So, we think that ultimately you need to think about where do rights come from?
Because we tell you rights arise by convention.
Societies write laws and people come to general agreements about what rights exist.
We think that the other side has to do a lot of work to tell you that rights come from god or from nature.
When we can very clearly see that the rights you have under the law, are all derived from convention.
At that point we tell you animals have whatever rights people give them.
Maybe they deserve more rights, but given that in the status quo it's legal to own a cat or a dog, we don't see why it should be illegal to have animals in zoos.
Maybe they can say some zoos don't treat animals very well, but the solution to that is to regulate zoos better, not to ban them.
I'd also like to say here that animals are not moral actors.
So they don't deserve moral consideration the way that people do.
Animals don't make moral decisions, so they aren't moral actors like you and I are.
We think that other people deserve moral consideration because they have equal ability to experience moral harms as moral actors.
Animals don't, therefore they don't deserve moral consideration, therefore it's moral to keep them in zoos.
And lastly, I just like to point out that there is a clear divide between humans and animals.
It's obvious who is a human and who was not in terms of their species, so at that point this isn't an arbitrary line.
It's quite a clear one.
So ultimately for these reasons we should not abolish zoos.
Thank you.