We should not subsidize the use of gasoline.
On our side, we're going to argue that this rewards antisocial behavior, that this hastens the onset of an oil crisis, and that this ultimately benefits undemocratic regimes.
So, first, we don't think that we should subsidize gasoline, because it encourages people to consume more gasoline.
You have to remember that a subsidy doesn't just allow people to maintain their current level of consumption, it will encourage them to consume more.
Why?
Well the only reason people don't consume more right now is because price is a barrier.
If you remove price as a barrier, people will drive less economical cars, as we see currently in the united states now that gas prices have fallen.
People will use more gasoline for other purposes as well.
People will take more flights, all of these kind of things.
We think that all of these behaviors are antisocial because of the environmental damage that they do.
People can receive a large personal benefit from driving a car that they like more or traveling more, but at the same time, they're passing on a huge cost to the rest of humanity and lots of people who haven't been born yet in the form of environmental degradation.
We think that, if anything, the government should be heavily taxing gasoline, as it already does in most countries, in order to prevent its use or minimize its use in order to protect the environment and future generations from the harms that gasoline brings upon the environment.
We think that climate change, for instance, which is caused about twenty five percent by personal automobiles, can only be prevented by dramatically reducing the amount of gasoline that every individual uses.
And while it's true that some countries like america, canada, and australia are disproportionately bad for this, every country needs to work in tandem to prevent increased use of gasoline.
And we think it's important that wealthy countries, if anything, subsidize alternative types of fuel in developing countries so that they can develop on a greener path than western countries did when they were developing a hundred years ago.
Our second argument is that this hastens the coming oil crisis.
There is going to come a time, sometimes called peak oil, when the amount of oil that we have peaks and then after that, prices are just going to rise and rise and rise, because there's no more new sources of oil that we can tap into to meet our demand.
Some people thought we were heading that way in the early two thousands, but the reduction in environmental protections in the united states allowed the world to increase its oil production as the US allowed drilling on huge amounts of protected land and has accessed things like oil sands that previously hadn't been used due to environmental protections.
Obviously, we think that was a bad thing, but we think that still in the future, there will come a time when even changing the law won't allow us to access more oil, because there just is no more oil.
And at that point, our dependence on oil as a fuel source will make it dramatically more expensive to fuel vehicles and will cause shortages, and people will have to do without.
We need to be proactive and plan for that by reducing our use of gasoline and other refined oil products now.
And lastly, we think that these subsidies would be sending money directly to undemocratic regimes.
Many countries, like venezuela and saudi arabia, are massive oil exporters and are also very undemocratic.
It's true that some of this money would go to norway, and canada, and the united states, but saudi arabia is, by far, the world's largest oil exporter.
We think that that regime is likely to grow stronger if it receives even more money in the form of subsidies and higher demand for its oil.
This would also be a huge benefit for russia, which also exports energy.
So we think that at the end of the day, we should not subsidize the use of gasoline, because it encourages antisocial behavior in the form of increased fuel consumption, because it's going to make the coming oil crisis worse, and because the main beneficiaries would be undemocratic regimes.
Thank you.