We should not end child benefits.
By child benefits, we mean welfare payments or government subsidy programs that are designed to help families with children.
We think that these are important policies for three reasons: first, because families with children are more likely to be in poverty, second, because we think that there's oftentimes insufficient private resources for parents such that they rely heavily on these types of subsidies, and thirdly, because governments have a vested interest in the birth rate.
So, first, let's talk about poverty.
We think that subsidies should generally be directed at the communities who need help the most.
We can see that this includes families with children for a couple of reasons.
First, because children can't advocate on their own behalf and can't work to support themselves.
Children need their parents to have the money to support them, but they themselves can't take action.
So we think that governments need to be very concerned with their well-being, because they can't protect their own well-being.
If I lost access to some subsidy like the one that covers student loan interest, I would be in a certain amount of discomfort, but I could just work more and get a better job and support myself, but an eight year old doesn't have that option.
So we need to take extra care to protect them.
But what's more, it's only natural that families with children are more likely to be in poverty, because they have the same number of people bringing in income, one or two parents, and they have many more people to feed and clothe and house, namely all of those children.
So we think that it's only natural that this is a community that will always have higher poverty, in particular, because most parents are young, in their twenties or thirties, and those are people who are earning less money than they will be later in their careers, so they're even less able to provide for their children than another group might be.
So we think that because of this high risk of poverty, there is a unique problem that needs to be solved and that the only good way to do that is to have childcare subsidies or child benefits.
Our second argument is that there's oftentimes insufficient resources for parents and that this cuts in to the amount of money they're able to bring in.
Not only do you have to consider that parents are often relatively early in their careers so they're making less money, but also many businesses don't give parents enough time to be parents.
So you see, for instance, that mothers might be pressured to go back to work relatively soon after having children or that businesses refuse to give parents time off to take care of sick children.
So a lot of people will, you know, lose hours if they're have a if there is someone who works an hourly job or will have to take a lot of time away from work and therefore cut into their earnings, even if they have a salaried job.
So we think that as a result, parents need these subsidies in order to meet shortfalls in their income that are caused by their duties as parents.
We think that by being a parent, people are doing something that's ultimately good for society and that it wouldn't be wrong to reward them for doing that by giving them some money in the form of these child benefits.
And the last thing we'd like to talk about is why the state is invested in the birth rate.
Economics are a major reason why people don't have children.
It's not that they don't want to, it's that a lot of people make a decision, responsibly, that they can't afford to have children.
But we think that that's really bad for the government, because you need to have new workers entering the work pool every year in order to be able to grow the economy.
So we think that you should encourage people to have children by making it as easy as possible, as accessible as possible, by removing the burden as much as possible.
And providing child benefits to offset the income that people lose by being parents is a really good way to do that.
So for all these reasons, we should not end child benefits.
Thank you.