We should not subsidize environmental protections.
On our side, we're going to explain why it's better to prevent pollution than to clean it up, why this is ineffective compared to other measures we could take, and also why there is a collective action problem that punishes any one nation that chooses to subsidize environmental protection.
So, first of all, why do we think it's better to prevent pollution than to clean it up?
We tell you that it takes fewer resources to prevent poor behavior than to repair its mistakes.
We think that, ultimately, by putting taxes on carbon emissions, for instance, we can prevent the need for extremely expensive carbon sequestering later on.
Similarly, we think that we can align the incentives of groups that currently produce lots of pollution, such as industrial companies or drivers, with those of the general population by forcing them to internalize the cost of their behavior for everyone else.
As a good example of this, driving is an antisocial behavior because of the carbon it releases into the atmosphere.
We think that if drivers had to pay a heavy carbon tax, fewer people would drive and people would drive less, and thus the interest of drivers would be better aligned with the general public.
This is much more effective and much cheaper than later going back and trying to remove all of the carbon from the atmosphere that those additional drivers released.
So we think that subsidizing environmental protections would be a much less effective technique rather than forcing people to internalize those costs.
Our second argument is that most environmental protections are ineffective compared to techniques that will prevent environmental contamination in the future.
So we think, for instance, that massive investments in basic science in the kind of things that are likely to lead to better solar panels or better battery technology are ultimately going to do more to prevent climate change or massive environmental degradation than traditional environmental protection.
Right, obviously it's a good thing to prevent oil from getting into water or to preserve endangered species, but we think that in the grander scheme of things, this is a pretty small impact compared to the impact of investment in alternative energy or alternative forms of transit that can prevent climate change that will ultimately cause ocean levels to rise and kill substantial amounts of biodiversity.
And lastly, we think that there's a huge disincentive for any one country to invest in environmental protection.
Ultimately, protecting the environment benefits everyone.
We see, for instance, that if the united states were to invest a huge amount of money in environmental protection, that would lead to cleaner air and lower temperatures for the entire world, but the united states would be bearing the entire cost, while everyone reaped the benefits.
We think that the problem with traditional environmental protection is that it doesn't give an incentive for any one country to really buy in.
It's true that there are some countries that are greener than others.
France, for instance, produces almost all of their electricity from nuclear power rather than fossil fuels, like germany or britain.
But at the same time, we see that they paid an enormous cost to do this, and they don't reap much of the benefit.
We think that until large treaties are in place that reward countries for taking good behavior or taking good actions to protect the environment, that it doesn't make a lot of sense to subsidize environmental protection because, ultimately, it's putting money into other countries' pockets.
We think that, instead, countries should focus on the types of research and reforms that I mentioned earlier in order to ensure that they can prevent climate change in the long term and that that technology is available to share with the rest of the world in the long term.
So for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize traditional environmental protections.
Thank you.