We should discourage the use of hormonal contraception.
I just wanna be clear briefly what this debate is about.
So, hormonal contraception uses chemicals, like estrogen, that are human hormones, in order to trick the body so that people won't be able to get pregnant or won't have their period.
Obviously, this has been a huge factor in women's liberation in the last hundred years but we think, on our side, that today there are better alternatives and that there's no need to keep using these types of birth control, for reasons that we'll talk about later, but obviously we're fine with any non-hormonal birth control on our side of the debate.
So our first argument is that there are alternatives today that don't have harmful side effects like hormonal birth control.
Hormonal birth control often causes many serious physical and mental side effects.
On the mental side, many women experience severe mood shifts or depression and this can be a huge problem, especially for young women who aren't used to the effects that birth control will have on them when they first start taking it, but it also has many physical effects.
So many people might experience harmful changes to their body chemistry.
These can lead to things like acne and also to much more serious illnesses that I won't get into, including greater risk of cancer.
So we think that there are a lot of downsides to using this particular type of birth control.
Today, we have other methods such as copper implants, for instance, that are extremely effective and don't rely on changing your body's hormones.
So this might not be suitable for everybody.
There might be some people who need to take these hormonal birth controls for health reasons or because they don't want to have their period at all, but we think that for many women who just want to avoid pregnancy, there are now more effective measures, which I'll talk about in just a moment, which also don't have all of these side effects for one's mental and physical health, and we'd like to promote those types of birth control, even though hormonal contraception is the norm right now for many people.
Our the next thing that I'd like to talk about under this is about the effectiveness of different types of contraceptives.
We all know that condoms often don't work and this is one reason why so many people take hormonal contraceptives as a kind of fail safe, but actually they're not tremendously effective.
If everybody took the birth control pill exactly as directed, it would be ninety nine percent effective, but no one I know actually does that, and I'm not sure that there's anyone who does a completely perfect job when it comes to taking a birth control pill.
And this is by far the most common type of hormonal contraceptive.
The benefit of many of the alternatives that we've talked about, such as implants, is that they don't rely on a person doing anything day to day.
They just work, no matter what, until they eventually run out and you can just mark your calendar for five years down the line, or your doctor will remind you that you need to get it replaced.
Another great thing about this is that these implants can be removed if someone makes a change about what they want to do, and there's no long term effect in most instances.
So this really is a better choice for most women's health.
It's an enormous problem that we rely so much on this as the default type of birth control in our society.
I think that there's absolutely a place for hormonal contraceptives, but what we want to do on our side of the debate is move people away from relying on the pill as the go-to first line of defense when it comes to contraceptives and, instead, move towards considering a more personalized approach to every individual's health and also considering that there are just better technologies, that didn't exist in the sixties, that we have available to us today.
So on our side, what we've shown you is that there are many types of birth control that don't have the same side effects as hormonal contraceptives, that oftentimes these are really dangerous for young women to begin taking or for certain individuals and that, in the long term, we will have fewer unwanted pregnancies if you encourage people to switch over to other types of birth control rather than hormonal ones.
For all of these reasons, we should discourage the use of hormonal contraceptives.
Thank you.