We should not band full body scanners.
No I'm not going to argue that we should have full body scanners in use everywhere that we have them in the status quo, but there are clearly sometimes when we need to use them.
In order to win this debate the other team needs to explain to you why we should never use full body scanners and I don't think they'll be able to do so.
Our first argument is that these are preferable to strip searches.
Danny tries to say that it's exactly the same to go through a full body scanner as it is to be strip searched and this is just patently ridiculous as you yourself know.
There's a huge difference between having someone make you walk through a little machine and then they see a picture of you naked verses having to go into some little side room with a guard dog and then be stripped in front of a bunch of guards.
Ultimately, we think that this is less invasive of people's privacy.
Is it an invasion of privacy?
Yes, but we're talking about the comparison here and I would much rather go through a little thing where I don't actually have to take my clothes off than have to stand there freezing cold naked in some JFK airport closet with two guys and a guard dog staring at me.
It's just much less intimidating to people, it takes less time, and ultimately it just seems less invasive to have a virtual image of yourself rather than have people literally staring at you naked.
Moreover, there's less physical contact with the agents.
Nobody touches you when you go through one of these vision scanning machines.
Maybe they pat you down to check if you have a gun after you go through, but that's less invasive than having them actually pat down your full body in a traditional strip search.
So we think that on the comparison this is better than what we had before and it's better than the alternative.
Our second argument is that these are more effective than other scanners.
Danny's argument is that we don't need these types of full body scanners because you can just go through a metal detector and while that's true, ultimately metal detectors aren't effective enough for the modern day.
Today there are for instance three d printed plastic guns that don't show up in a metal detector.
So the older types of security machines just aren't good enough for the weapons that terrorist or hijackers might have available today.
Moreover, things like putting your bags through a scanner still happen even in airports with a full body scanner right?
When I flew from boston to los angeles at both airports I had to scan my bag through a metal detector and go through one of these full body scanners.
So you're compounding these two things to fight terrorism more effectively not doing one or the other as danny seems to imply.
So ultimately, even if you think that the risk of terror is pretty minimal, it is more easily reduced or more easily prevented when we have these full body scanners than when we rely solely on older technology.
So we're better at fighting terror on our side of the debate.
And our final argument is that some airports really need full body scanners.
If you've ever flown through JFK in new york city, then you're aware that some airports just have too many people trying to get through for every single flight.
If you're coming through a relatively small airport like thessaloniki in greece or newport news virginia, then you probably don't need these really advanced scanners because you have enough time to just pat people down properly.
But when you're trying to get through an entire seven eighty seven full of people for the next flight from JFK to heathrow, ultimately you don't have a lot of time to devote to patting people down.
You simply have such a large volume of passengers that you need to be able to use these machines to make things go more quickly.
So either you have to hire more staff if you get rid of these machines, which makes air travel more expensive, and nobody wants that, or you just have to accept it and use these full body scanners.
For all of these reasons, we should not ban full body scanners.
Thank you.