We should further exploit sustainable energies.
Sustainable energies are those which are consumed at such a low rate during their use that effectively they could be used forever.
A good example of this would be wind power.
You can put up lots of turbines but that doesn't stop the wind from blowing.
Similarly, building solar panels doesn't stop the sun from shining.
By comparison, burning natural gas means that that natural gas is gone forever and can't be used by future generations.
And by further exploit, we mean that we should come up with new and innovative ways to take advantage of these sustainable energies and that we should use them to the exclusion of non-sustainable energies, like fossil fuels.
Our three arguments this evening are about climate change, energy independence and technological advancement.
So, about climate change: sustainable energies, by and large, are much greener than non-sustainable energies.
This is because the main unsustainable energy that we use, fossil fuels, releases huge amounts of carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere, whereas the leading sustainable energies, like solar power, don't release these kind of pollutants.
Climate change poses a huge risk to the global population.
Millions of people are going to lose their homes as the sea rises over the next few decades, especially people in low-lying countries like bangladesh that might be submerged for much of their territory.
Moreover, there's going to be a risk of great disease, of crops failing, effectively a biblical plague almost as a result of climate change.
So anything we can do to slow climate change, we ought to do, and adopting sustainable energy will let us delay climate change or minimize climate change by reducing the output of these carbon emissions.
Our second argument is about energy independence.
Basically, a handful of countries right now control all of the energy production in the world.
Countries with lots of oil, like venezuela, russia, and the united states, are able to dictate how and when other countries can provide oil.
Remember the opec embargo against the US back in the nineteen seventies and how badly that affected normal life here.
Now, today, the US produces oil, but many countries can't do that.
France, for instance, could never become an oil-producing country because there's no oil there.
But what a country like france can do to achieve energy independence is to build sustainable energy sources.
So, in france, they have lots of nuclear power plants, and they take a lot of advantage of hydropower as well.
And as a result, something like eighty percent of their energy is produced in the country, and they export a lot of electricity to the rest of europe.
What this means is that no foreign country could ever affect france's industry and economy by limiting their access to power, it all comes domestically, whereas a country like britain that imports lots of natural gas could be cut off from that natural gas by an opponent such as russia, and then their economy would be tanked by the lack of energy.
And our third and final point is about technological advancement.
In the past, major investments in new technologies have led to secondary benefits in the form of other technologies.
The space race is the classic example of this.
In their efforts to covertly develop intercontinental ballistic missiles, the US and the soviet union spent billions of dollars sending people to space, to the moon, to space stations, and so on.
Ultimately, we got huge amounts of technology that's used today on earth from these missions, like new materials and medical technologies.
Investment in sustainable energies on a huge scale is likely to lead to similar new technologies that emerge as just a side effect of all of this research becoming available.
So for all these reasons, we should further exploit sustainable energies.
Thank you.