We should introduce school vouchers.
So, school vouchers are basically a system where you're able to take the money that you contributed to taxes for your local public school and use that money to send your children to a private school.
So let's say you were assessed ten thousand dollars in property tax for education in a given year, you would be able to petition to get a voucher for ten thousand dollars to spend on tuition at a private school for your children, if you so chose.
This is already the case in some parts of the united states, and we think that western liberal democracies everywhere should implement some version of this policy.
With that in mind, two main arguments.
The first is about why we think this leads to better education.
Right now, there's basically no competition within education.
Children go to their neighborhood school and if it's a good school, they get a good education and if it's a bad school, then they don't.
But, there's no competition here, because people can't say, " my school is bad.
I want to go to another school. "
Now it might be true that a few very wealthy people are able to send their children to private schools and pay property taxes, but these are a small minority of parents, in general.
We think that, therefore, the competition is false, because schools know that they can provide a poor service, bad education, and still receive thousands of customers, namely, the children who live in their district.
So we think that we would get better education with school vouchers, because you would see money flowing into good schools and away from bad schools.
That would mean that the bad schools would have to adapt themselves and their education in order to attract people back into going to that school.
If they can't do so, then they'll probably go out of business, and we think that's a good thing if it means that children are getting a better education.
Ultimately, remember: the purpose of school is to educate young people, not to employ teachers or provide a local sports team that people can root for.
So, if on our side, we get better education, we get young people who are more civically engaged, who are more prepared for university, who are ready to vote, then we think that that's the highest good possible.
And we certainly get that on our side, because we allocate money to the schools that are doing those things and force the schools that aren't to go out of business, which will then create a void that will lead to new schools opening up so that, therefore, children will actually have access to a good education.
This is clearly good for children who are served by bad schools right now, because those are the people falling through the cracks.
In our world, it would be possible for people to get some of that money that they already pay in back and to use it to better themselves and their children.
Our second main argument is about parental choice.
Right now, we let parents make a lot of important decisions about their children's education.
If you want your children to go to sunday school, if you want them to learn spanish on the weekend, or go to math camp and all of these other things that parents do to provide for their children's education, those are all personal choices.
So why should the school that your children go to not be a personal choice?
Again, the other team might point out that some people go to catholic or private schools, but we tell you that ultimately it's a false choice, because most people simply can't afford that.
We think that, first of all, given that parents have a right to make decisions about their children, we think that that right should apply equally to all people, not just the very wealthy who can afford to send their kids to private schools, in the status quo.
And secondly, I want to talk about where that right comes from.
Parents know their own children better than the government does.
Governments might have statistical data about what's good for children, on aggregate, but they don't know if little johnny has certain needs that aren't being met by public schools and things like that.
So we think that it's always going to be better to defer to parents to make these decisions than to try to make them at a centralized level.
We think that this is particularly true for the parents of special needs children who are going to be more able to provide for their children using these vouchers than they would in the status quo at public schools that often don't have facilities for special needs children.
So for these reasons, we should implement school vouchers.
Thank you.