We should not further exploit alternative energy.
So to be clear I'm not arguing that we should tear down solar farms or dams, but I think that it's important that we continue to use the existing resources and infrastructure that we have that are based on natural gas, oil, coal, and other similar energy sources.
Ultimately as we run out of those resources it would be fine to switch over to solar power or nuclear power but we think that as long as we have natural gas or coal we should continue to use it.
Our first argument is that cheap energy is the bedrock for development.
If you look at how the most industrialized countries got to where they are today, britain, germany, the united states, they did so by heavily exploiting fossil fuels.
The industrial revolution in britain was spurred by coal, in germany and the united states a lot of oil has been used to fuel our industrial development, and ultimately these countries are now able to provide huge amounts of resources for the entire world and quality of life for everyone is better because of this development.
We think that less developed countries, like nigeria or india, deserve the same opportunity to develop so that their citizens can lead good lives and have access to doctors and schools and the like that germans or americans have.
But if you say that it's okay for some countries to develop quickly using fossil fuels and not others, you basically shut the door on development for currently less developed countries which we think ultimately will lead to millions of people living in poverty and privation and having much worse lives than they might have otherwise.
So given the trade off between future climate change and people living in less developed countries we think development is more important.
Our second argument is that current people deserve more consideration from their governments than future people.
Sam tells you that climate change ultimately poses a huge threat to people.
But what we would tell you is that while it may be true that future people will be harmed by climate change current people are being harmed by a lack of access to good energy and things like that.
Ultimately if you can't afford to drive, to heat your home, you're suffering right now and the state can take action to help or harm you directly whereas it can only affect future people indirectly.
What's more, there's no way to know where and when future people will be born so we don't think that they're part of the same social contract as people living in a country right now.
So we think that governments have an obligation to defer to helping their current citizens which would necessarily mean exploiting natural resources and cheap energy to give them better lives.
And our final argument is that this would lead to massive global instability.
Many of the wars and conflicts of the last fifty years have had to do with energy.
For instance, we tell you that the breakup of the soviet union was driven in large part by economic decline.
Soviet growth slowed down and the reason for that was that oil prices were going down and the soviet union had become a petrostate.
Similarly we see that russia, presently, has become more aggressive towards its neighbors as the price of oil and natural gas has gone down because putin is in a difficult position where he can't offer development and success to his people without money and that money normally would come from natural gas and oil.
But it's not just about russia either.
Many latin american countries are heartbreakingly poor and their only major income comes from fossil fuels.
So if you took away these fossil fuels countries like venezuela, or columbia, or mexico would lose huge parts of their income and be plunged very likely into conflict.
To say nothing of middle eastern countries like saudi arabia that are propped up entirely by oil.
So we think that this global instability would lead to conflict and mass suffering that is unacceptable.
For all these reasons we should not further exploit alternative energy.
Thank you.