We should not increase tax credits.
On our side, we think that a simple system of taxation is better than a complicated one and that tax credits add a lot of complication to the tax code.
And, moreover, we think that people deserve to keep their money as much as possible while still running the state.
So with those ideas in mind, we have two main arguments against having more tax credits.
Our first argument is that this hurts access to public services.
There are two ways to provide the public with these services.
The first is to directly give people money in the form of redistribution based on a larger fund, and the second is to give tax credits to individuals.
So, snap, a program that buys low-income families food, is directly giving people money, and the earned income tax credit, which gives money to families with children, is a form of returning people their money after they pay taxes.
The question that I have and that I think the other side has to answer to win this debate is why is it better to have a family with three kids, say, pay in their taxes, have a bureaucrat review their taxes, and then have that bureaucrat return part of their tax money rather than just to write them a check to begin with?
We think that, ultimately, it's much more complicated to have a system of tax credits.
Moreover, many people don't know that they're eligible for tax credits, so they don't know to apply for them.
This is going to be especially true of low-income people or immigrants who aren't as familiar with the system.
And, indeed, this may sound conspiratorial, but I would argue that one reason the tax system is so complicated is to make it so that people have to hire someone to do their taxes for them.
There are some big companies, like quicken books, that make a lot of money off of doing people's taxes on their behalf, and I've seen that some of these have lobbied in the past against simplifying the tax code.
Ultimately, it's ridiculous to have a more complicated tax code just to keep quicken books and other similar companies in business.
People should be able to understand how much they need to pay out of every single paycheck and in order to do that, you need to simplify the tax code.
This would also reduce fraud because it would make it much more obvious whether someone was underpaying.
If you could see that someone is supposed to have, you know, eighty dollars and thirty three cents taken out of his paycheck and they have more or less taken out, then it would be really easy to check for fraud, whereas if people are receiving a system of debits and credits throughout the year, ultimately it's much easier for fraud to go unnoticed.
So these are some reasons why complications are bad and therefore we shouldn't increase more tax credits.
But our second argument is that this places a barrier to fundamentally deserved benefits.
When people have a fundamental right to receive a service from the government, such as receiving health care or receiving food for their children, we think that, ultimately, it's better to just write them a check so that there's no barrier to access.
If you take a program like wic, which gives food to needy women, infants and children, hence the acronym, this program is really successful because it's really easy for families to get enrolled, whereas if people got a tax credit in place, first of all, wic wouldn't be able to help people who don't pay taxes.
So I think for many people who don't file income taxes, because they don't have any income, they would lose out on these services, and those may be some of the people who need them the most.
But secondly, we think it's also harder to provide for these people because many people are afraid to interact with the IRS or are worried about being audited, even if they have nothing to pay and nothing to lose.
So this just puts more and more barriers between people and these benefits.
This is an unacceptable harm because if people have a fundamental right to something, like infants have a right to food, then you can't just go and put arbitrary barriers in them, even if it makes technocrats in washington DC happy because our tax code fit some ideal that they have for it.
So for all of these reasons, we should not increase tax credits.
Thank you.