We should abolish the presidential pardon and also similar pardons that exist at the state level such as the california governor's pardon.
Just for those who don't know, the president or the governor of a state is able to pardon anyone who has been convicted of a crime at anytime for any reason.
This is solely at their discretion and it's one of the privileges of being the chief executive.
We have a few reasons for why we think this privilege should be removed.
The first is that we think that if someone is guilty and that person has gone through a free and fair trial and the courts have decided that this is what that person deserves, that they deserve to pay the penalty.
We don't think that the executive should be able to intervene in order to prevent the carriage of justice.
Ultimately, the reason why we have a judicial system is that it is fair and impartial and reaches, in theory, equitable decisions for everyone.
And we think that broadly speaking that's true that the judiciary is better suited than any other branch of government to determine whether someone ought be punished and if so, how and for how long.
So we don't think that the executive branch has any business interfering with this policy.
We think that a general principle is that if someone's guilty then there should be a penalty and we don't think that the executive should be able to get someone off regardless of the circumstances.
Our second argument is that this delays reform.
I'd invite you to think of the presidential pardon as a safety valve.
When people in the public are very unhappy about a certain conviction, the president can overturn that conviction.
Or if a conviction threatens international relations or the stability of a certain part of the government, the president can overturn that conviction.
We think that this is actually really bad because it prevents reform.
If the courts are acting in such a way that the public is outraged, that probably means that there is a mismatch between the law and the public mores and we think it would be preferable to have that public outcry translate into a change in the law as people make demands of the judicial and legislative branches rather than let the president wave a magic wand and push the problem off for another day.
Why?
Well presumably there are going to be other instances when the laws don't match up with our mores that aren't as high profile and innocent people or people who the public don't believe should be published punished are going to be punished and they're not going to get those presidential pardons.
That's the problem with any ad hoc solution like a presidential pardon.
It's a band-aid on what can often be a serious problem with a country's laws or with the way that the justice system is functioning.
Because similarly to the mismatch between mores and laws you can also have a judicial system that's failing to do what it ought do in society and if that's the case, we think that reform is necessary rather than a presidential band-aid.
So the solution to these problems should probably come from the legislature rather than from any other branch of government.
And our final argument is that there's a lot of bias in how these presidential pardons are administered.
Oftentimes the president will, on the last day he is in office, pardon people who are political allies or in some way useful to him who've been convicted of something.
This is a way that the president can prevent his allies or her allies perhaps in the future from being punished for things that they really did that were wrong.
It's an enormous form a political patronage and we think that it undermines the effectiveness of the judicial system because if you have influence with the right powerful people, you can just get a pardon and walk away.
But we also think it's quite likely that wealthier people and richer people and whiter people are much more likely to be pardoned than anyone else and therefore that there's a huge amount of bias in how this is applied.
So for all these reasons, we should abolish the presidential pardon.
Thank you.