We should fight nationalism.
So nationalism is the belief that one's country is superior to other countries and that people should organize and identify according to their nationality.
So for instance, the belief that america is the greatest country in the world and much better than every other country, would be a very prominent example of this.
I'm going to begin by explaining why nationalism is harmful and then move on to two ways that we can fight against it in a productive fashion.
Nationalism short circuits people's ability to think critically about their country's actions.
To use the united states as my example because I'm familiar with it, in the run up to the iraq war in order to prevent people from criticizing the war or pointing out that it didn't make sense in terms of keeping americans safe or financially, the bush administration encouraged people to think nationalistically.
They presented saddam hussein as the enemy of the american people, whoever that may be, and as a threat to our way of life.
Again, whatever that may be.
All of this was completely groundless and saddam hussein actually had nothing to do with the nine eleven attacks but what's important is that by encouraging people to think in this kind of tribalistic way, bush and cheney were able to convince people to support a war that they had no business rushing into.
Throughout history we've seen leaders stir up support for wars using nationalism as their primary strategy.
We think that ultimately, the ability of nationalism to incite violence for people means that it is on balance always going to be harmful and we would prefer a world in which people identify based on their common factors with others rather than one were arbitrary lines on a map determine who gets human treatment and who does not.
So that said, two ways that we can fight against nationalism in a productive fashion.
The first is to promote multi-culturalism and immigration.
It is much easier to think that people living in other countries are inferior or evil if you don't know anyone who was born or lived in a foreign country.
On the other hand, if your next door neighbors are from one country and your other neighbors are from a third country and your boss grew up in another place, it's ultimately much more difficult for you to look down on people just because of their nation of origin because there's no facts backing up nationalism.
People actually aren't better just because they were born in a given country.
So by exposing people to different ideas and ideologies and to immigrants we think that you will ultimately reduce nationalism while also making your country stronger because we tell you that ultimately immigration and multiculturalism allow us to reflect more critically on our own culture.
If there are harmful things about our culture, for instance, certain american racial views, than people coming in from other countries offer us different perspectives so that we can actually understand things that need to change about our culture.
But moreover, we also tell you that we can fight against nationalism in a second way by supporting international institutions and international cooperation.
International cooperation is ultimately in everyone's interest because some issues like climate change cannot be solved on a national scale.
For instance, by withdrawing from the recent paris climate agreement's donald trump is using nationalism to screw over the entire world.
Countries have to work together to stop climate change because carbon doesn't stop at the border and present its passport.
At the point where we can only deal with these problems through international institutions, we think that we can create a better world by subsuming nationalism with a sense of internationalism.
The europeans are way ahead of the americans on this.
The willingness of the european union to do things like provide low interest loans to poorer countries and development to members who suffered under communism shows that they can make everyone's life better while also helping out those who are worse off.
Ultimately the EU has created a huge amount of wealth in europe despite what nay sayers tell you by subsuming a sense of nationalism with a sense of europeanism.
So with these ideas in mind, we should fight nationalism through promoting multi-culturalism and supporting international institutions.
Thank you.