Private universities should be banned.
So in this debate, we're talking about schools like harvard, to use a famous example, that are not operated by government.
These universities might, you know, receive government funds for research or might have to be accredited by some external organization, but ultimately they govern themselves, similarly to a corporation or other organization.
Some of them might belong to an organization like the catholic church, others might be completely independent.
We think, ultimately, all of these universities should be brought under the supervision of their countries' governments.
So, in america, this might be done at a state level, in other countries, like britain, it might be done by the constituent countries, so on.
Three arguments.
First: we think that private universities create more inequality within a society.
In most countries that have private universities these universities are also the best.
We see that, for instance, harvard in the US or oxford in the UK are some of the best, most prestigious institutions in the world, that they have been for hundreds of years, largely because they were founded before any other university so they've had more time to acquire lots of alumni, amounts of money, and then they reinvest that and remain the best.
We think that, ultimately, when these universities are so prestigious and when they're private that this creates inequality because certain classes of people get to attend and others don't.
Many public universities in the US that are very good, like the university of california at berkeley, are much more diverse than private schools like harvard or yale or princeton, because public universities have an incentive to allow people from different backgrounds and different groups to participate, because the state serves everyone, whereas private universities want to help the families of people who have gone there in the past or want to help people like themselves.
So we think you would have more equality within the educational system if the state controlled schools like harvard and oxford and could compel them to take a certain amount of minority students or a certain amount of low-income students.
Our second argument is about standards and quality.
Right now, while it's true that schools like harvard and oxford are some of the best, they oftentimes don't fulfill the same standards that public universities do.
Obviously, people get a good education, but whereas many public universities require certain distribution requirements they're often called in america, you know, everyone has to take math, history, whatever, in many cases private universities have different requirements.
We think that it's important to standardize the requirements that are asked of everyone so that employers know what they're getting into and so that there's not a false perception that some students are better prepared than others.
And then, we also have to think about a lack of quality in some universities.
There are many religious universities, in particular, that don't provide a high quality of education to their students.
There are evangelical christian universities in america, for instance, that teach their students that evolution isn't real and that the earth is ten thousand years old.
We think that the government should intervene in order to ensure that all students attending university have access to a certain baseline quality of education.
Our final argument is about research money.
So right now, countries like britain and the US funnel a large amount of money into private universities to do medical, scientific and other research.
For instance, the human genome project was conducted at oxford with lots of EU and british government money, even though oxford is a private university.
We think that, in general, because these institutions are essential and because the government spends so much money on them that they ought be managed for the public good.
If you're going to spend billions of pounds at a university, we think that the public deserves some input into how that university uses the money and how the university is run.
Ultimately, although the universities are privately governed, they benefit tremendously from the taxpayer, and we think that there needs to be taxpayer oversight as a result.
So for these reasons, private universities should be banned.
Thank you.