We should introduce a flat tax rate.
So here's what we're going to argue for: right now most countries around the world have a progressive tax system where, for instance, the first ten thousand dollars of your income is taxed at one rate, the second ten thousand dollars is taxed at another higher rate and so on.
We're arguing that there should be one rate for all income.
But it's a bit more complicated than that.
We're still going to allow personal deductions, which basically means that you can take a certain amount away from your tax burden, based on the number of people in your family.
This would obviously allow low income people to have a negative tax burden, which means that they would receive money back from the federal government after their deductions.
So with the system of personal deductions we would actually have a negative income tax rate for low income people.
With that in mind, we would advocate that countries replace their progressive tax rate with a flat tax rate that would bring in the same amount of income.
Two main arguments for why we think this is a good policy, one which is better than a progressive tax rate: the first is that this is a very simple tax rate, that's very difficult to evade.
One of the largest problems that governments have isn't setting a tax rate that will bring in enough revenue, it's setting a tax rate that will bring enough revenue after you have lots of people evading their taxes.
In countries like greece for instance you have, on paper, and extremely high tax rate but also a relatively low rate of people actually paying what they owe.
We tell you that a flat tax is harder to evade because ultimately it so much simpler.
The state can point to a chart with your income on it and say exactly how much you owe based on the number of people in your family, as compared to a progressive income tax rate, where people have incentives to play certain games in order to ensure that they end up in a particular bracket for instance.
At the same time the tax code is now much easier to administer.
You don't need fifty billion lawyers on hand in order to interpret the tax code if you have a much simpler one.
You can have a smaller staff, that's able to actually catch more people committing fraud with a simple flat tax rate.
And what's more, it's easier for people to plan and know what they're tax burden will be in the future, as opposed to a more complex tax code, so we think this actually allows people to plan better for their own futures.
We think on top of that, that there's less incentive to evade taxation now.
Because whereas in a country that's a highly progressive tax code you have an incentive to ensure that you don't go into a higher tax bracket, with a flat tax rate it doesn't matter how much you are earn.
You lose that incentive for people to commit fraud.
Our second argument is that ultimately this is better for low income people and people at the margin.
Right now if you are a working class person in a country with a progressive tax rate and you happen to get a bonus, suddenly your tax burden on that bonus is higher than it would have been otherwise, so you receive less on the margin than you would have if you had a flat tax in that country.
We think that although progressive tax rates are set up to help low income people, in fact they do a poor job of doing so.
While these people might pay a lower rate of tax to begin with, we think it's often arbitrary what is assessed as a fair tax burden for low income people.
We think that by allowing a system of deductions that would give some people a negative tax burden, you can completely remove the burden of funding the state from those who can least afford to bear it and instead have direct cash transfers to those people.
This can act as a supplement for certain social welfare programs or even a replacement for certain inefficient social welfare programs.
By replacing them with direct cash transfers which, many economists would argue, actually are better for families because people can allocate that money according to their own preferences rather than have some bureaucrat tell them how they're going to spend their benefit money.
So with all of these points in mind, we would argue for introducing a flat tax rate.
Thank you.