Private universities should not be banned.
I'd like to point out a couple of things before I proceed to my three arguments.
First, these universities are primarily non profit.
Oxford and harvard and other similar private universities are not in education to make a buck.
Although they spend and bring in lots of money, they're in it for research and education and are classed as non-profits by the governments that oversee them.
And on top of that I'd like to point out that while these universities cost lots of money, so do many public schools.
The difference between attending an elite private school and a public university in the united states, financially, is oftentimes zero for middle and low income students.
I personally went to a private school, and it ended up costing me about the same amount of money as attending my local public school, because the wealth that these universities have allows them to offer scholarships that public universities simply couldn't afford.
So I think that deals with some of the material from the last speaker.
Now on to my first point, which is about freedom of association.
In the united states in particular and liberal democracies more generally, if we allow people to organize themselves into groups at their will, we have the freedom of association.
In the US, under the first amendment, and the basic laws and constitutions of other countries guarantee this as well.
If you ban private universities you are preventing, effectively, groups of professors and students from coming together to study outside of the auspices of government.
We think that this is a clear violation of that freedom of association.
While it may be true that governments or some people don't like the ideas expressed at private universities, we think that banning them ultimately is unconstitutional in some countries and also harmful to the freedom of thought in any country.
We think that when you have a greater diversity of universities sponsored by religious groups or sponsored by certain entrepreneurs or philanthropists, that ultimately more ideas are being exposed to students and you have a greater diversity of opinion in your public conversation.
Our second argument is about research and I think this wins the debate very clearly for our side.
Schools like harvard, yale, and oxford are able to spend so much money on medical and scientific research compared to public universities.
They do a tremendous amount of good for society.
Harvard has an endowment of something like thirty eight billion dollars.
Ultimately they were able to spend far more money than any public university ever will on their research.
We tell you that not only did they bring in public government funds, which they're able to spend effectively because they can draw good staff, but also they invest huge amounts of their own money into things like medical research.
This benefits everyone in the world who is able to take advantage of the research that they do, whether that be through new medical techniques or scientific advances.
We think that the world would be a much poorer and more backwards place without the research that private universities are uniquely positioned to do because of their massive endowments.
And our final point is that public universities would be worse off if private universities were banned.
Remember that many of the professors teaching at berkeley, at the university of chapel hill, at public universities around the world, attended private universities.
The money that schools like harvard, oxford, cambridge invest in their graduate students goes on to create professors who then go on to teach at public universities and share that expertise.
So everyone benefits from these elite universities because of the faculty that they produce.
But also if you got rid of private universities, more seats at public schools would be taken by their students.
You would have more wealthy, very privileged students going to berkeley, going to chapel hill if harvard didn't exist and this would create more competition for spots at public universities, which would ultimately reduce access for the kinds of students the other side wants to help, namely low-income or less well-off students.
So for all of these reasons, we tell you private universities ought not be banned.
Thank you.