We should not allow school vouchers.
So we think that the state should never issue school vouchers and here's why.
Before I get into our arguments though I'd like to explain to you how school vouchers work.
Most neighborhoods have a community school that's funded by property taxes, and when you have a school voucher you are given back the money from your property tax that would have gone to the school system and you're allowed to choose to spend it somewhere else.
So as with all other spending this is zero sum.
If you choose to get a voucher than you were taking money away from your neighborhood school.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that this will cause self-segregation.
Right now, communities take a huge amount of effort to avoid segregation in their schools.
Even if people live in segregated neighborhoods, they still send children to geographically oriented schools that include people of all different races.
For instance they might bus students across the city of boston or they might put together a black and a white neighborhood in atlanta in order to ensure that schools are not segregated based on race.
Ultimately if you issue school vouchers, then you're going to have certain racist parents, especially white parents, who aree going to send their children to more white schools.
And likely what you'll see is that certain schools will become overwhelmingly white beyond what we would accept in the status quo and you'll see a return of segregation.
This was the original genesis of white flight in the united states was that parents want their kids to go to all white schools so they moved into all white suburbs.
We think that you'll just recreate and reinforce the problem if you introduce vouchers.
Because ultimately these vouchers will give parents the same power to choose to send their children to all white schools, so we think that would undermine all the progress that's been made in equal education for different races over the last forty years.
Our next argument is that this will fundamentally undermine neighborhood schools.
As I mentioned before, school vouchers work by taking funding away from neighborhood schools and giving it to a school of a parent's choice.
Right now, neighborhood schools work on a sort of economy of scale.
They have a certain amount of children at the school every year based on the size of the neighborhood, so they can plan far in advance for how much money they're going to spend and all of the services that they provide are keyed around having full occupancy.
So for instance funding programs like athletics, music, and the arts might be based on having a certain number of children there every year so they receive a certain amount of property tax.
When parents start pulling their kids out because they have these vouchers, you're going to have to cut spending because you'll have less money coming in and you still have to maintain the same size building and the same facilities.
So many specialty programs like the arts but also programs for disabled children or other more expensive specialty types of education are going to suffer.
We think that this is unfair to students who rely on those services and that it unfairly harms the children who end up going to those schools because they don't have a choice about it their parents do.
Those children would now miss out on opportunities and not be given the education that they deserve.
And our final point is that this privileges children with more educated and informed parents.
If you think about what parents are going to choose to go and put a lot of work into finding out what school to send their children to rather than send them to the one down the block, it's probably going to be the parents were the most educated and because of historical injustices that probably means wealthier parents from a dominant religious and ethnic group, whereas more recent immigrants or people of color might be less able to access that kind of cultural knowledge to know what schools to send their children to.
So you're going to see that currently privileged parents will create even more privileged children at the expense of everyone else and that this will entrench existing biases in society even further.
For all these reasons, don't allow school vouchers.
Thank you.