We should not limit the right of self defense.
So we are arguing that people who are on trial for things like murder or assault should be able to use self defense as a way to not be convicted.
Three arguments for our side: and the first is about the what we call castle law in america.
So the idea is that in public you are always required to retreat as much as possible before you use force in self defense.
So until your back is against the wall you're not allowed to use force to defend yourself.
But in your own home, as soon to somebody enters your home without your permission you are allowed to defend your home with force.
I think that this is a just policy for a few reasons and that if we allow castle law, obviously we must allow self defense.
The first is that people have the right to privacy and the right to control what goes on in their own home.
This right is completely meaningless if you don't have the ability to use force to uphold it.
We tell you that ultimately, if someone tries to burgle your home, that the only recourse you have in the moment is to use physical force.
Now, it's likely that people from other countries will say that it's not necessary to use a gun to prevent people from burgling your home, but the point remains that culturally it has become the norm that people would be able to do this.
So it's likely that people: one, would continue to use guns to defend their homes even if they weren't required to and secondly we think that fundamentally if you accept that people have a right to defend their home then they should be able to use any means necessary, including a firearm.
Our second argument is that policing is often insufficient to protect people from violent crimes.
I'll give a few examples of this.
So in many inner city areas, in cities like chicago or new york, the police simply don't respond to people's nine one one calls, or if they do come they wait hours before arriving.
So the situation is very different than if you live in a white suburb of boston, like where I live.
I can call nine one one and have the police here in a matter of minutes but someone living in the inner city might have to wait an hour before the police arrive.
At that point it's clear that you can't rely on nine one one or the police to protect you from violent crime.
What are you supposed to do at that point?
We think it's unreasonable to say that people should have no recourse when they're the victim of a violent crime that they should just have to lie down and be beaten and robbed, rather than be able to defend themselves.
At that point people would have very little reason to cooperate with the law because it would be clearly acting against their interest in such a great fashion.
We think that this would undermine people's respect for the rule of law writ large.
Our third argument is that getting rid of the right to self defense won't decrease violence.
What do we mean by this?
There is this idea implicit in the other side's arguments that for some reason the ability to defend yourself increases the likelihood that you will commit an act of violence against another person.
So they blame things like police shooting young black men on the fact that the police have the right to self defense.
But I don't think that this is necessarily true.
If people are in a position where they feel like it's life or death, they're always going to choose to protect their own life, whether or not they think that there's a legal justification for this.
We see that people use self defense all the time in countries where this isn't a legal standard, even though they run the risk of going to jail.
Because ultimately dying is still worse than going to jail.
But what we tell you is that when you have the right to self defense you encourage people to act in a more rational fashion.
People are more likely, for instance, to use the least restrictive amount of force, or not to use lethal force when they know in the back of their head that they'll be in a better position afterwards, while still protecting themselves.
So we think that violence is going to go on either way, no matter whether or not this is legal.
That the systems that lead to people using violent force such as police brutality, racism or crime, are going to continue.
So people will act violently on either side.
The only difference is whether law-abiding people are able to defend themselves.
For these reasons we should not limit the right to self defense.
Thank you.