Boarding schools should be abolished.
So, by boarding schools, we mean primary and secondary schools where students go away from home to live in, you know, another city or another region of their country for their education.
So, an example of this might be andover in the US, eton in england or many other similar schools around the world.
Boarding schools tend to be private in some countries but also receive public funding in others, and they're often some of the best schools in their country.
So, two main arguments for why they should be abolished: first, because they're bad for students and second, because of broader harms to society.
So why are boarding schools bad for students?
First: we see that there has been a rampant culture of abuse in boarding schools, in the US and britain at any rate, and I'm sure in other countries as well.
Because students spend all of their time in dorms or around faculty, there is tremendous potential for bullying and physical abuse by other students.
There was a very prominent legal case recently in the US where one of the nation's most prestigious boarding schools was found to have sexual abuse by the older students against the younger students.
It's very difficult for the faculty to monitor the children the way that a parent would be able to because there are, you know, ten children for every teacher and most of the teachers don't live in the dorms, as opposed to having three to four children per every family.
So we think that the door is open for abuse from other students, but also from instructors as well.
Because the students spend so much time around the instructors outside of class, we think that it's much easier for there to be inappropriate relations or abuse and also that parents won't be around to look for the warning signs.
So we think that children are put at risk when you place them into these schools.
Our second argument for why their bad for children is that they lead to poor socialization.
When you go to public school, every day you probably interact with lots of people of different ages.
I remember when I was in school, you know, I would walk there from where I worked and I would see elderly people and talk to them, you know, young children going to other schools.
I interacted a lot with people of different ages, and I think this is important for children's development, that they learned how to be respectful to the elderly, how to talk to children younger than them, not just how to interact with their peers.
But a boarding school, by its very nature, insulates you and surrounds you with other people of your own age, which stunts your development as a person because you don't interact as much with people from different walks of life much less people of different ages.
In particular, we think it's likely that you won't interact with people of lower socioeconomic status, who probably can't go to these schools.
This means that you're probably less likely to be sympathetic to them and to people who are different from you, in general, because contact is so important to building sympathy.
Lastly, we would say that children benefit from spending lots of time with their families, that they need their parents as role models, that they need to bond with their siblings to form a long-lasting relationships, and that ultimately this is undermined by boarding schools.
Our second argument is about why boarding schools are harmful for society.
First of all, we tell you that boarding schools often lead to societal inequality.
They concentrate, most likely, the children of the elite or a handful of lucky children from other classes into one area and then spend huge amounts of resources on those children.
This comes at the expense of children who go to day schools, because they don't have access to those resources.
But moreover, it creates a sort of feedback where it's very likely that the alumni of these schools go on to have children who then go back to those schools, because these alumni are able to make donations or because their children have access to certain educational and economic privileges.
This creates a certain class of people who receive a much better education than everyone else, which ultimately means that they have greater advantages than other people in society who can't compete, and also that they're not likely to understand that this gap exists because of all the isolation I just told you about.
So with this in mind, we should ban boarding schools because they undermine children and because they're harmful for society.
Thank you.