We should further exploit solar energy.
By this we mean that governments should devote significant funds to researching more efficient or better forms of solar panels and solar technology, that we should devote large resources to developing better battery technology so that we can save up the energy that we harvest from the sun, and that municipalities should seek to transfer publicly owned electricity companies away from fossil fuels and away from other types of energy toward solar energy in the short to medium term.
We have a few arguments for why we think it's essential that we further exploit solar energy.
The first is that there is an imperative right now to reduce carbon emissions, and solar energy is an effective way to do it.
The first part of this argument is about that imperative to reduce emissions.
Many major cities are going to be seriously threatened by climate change.
New york, london, rio de janeiro, and many of the world's other largest cities will be flooded by climate change in the next hundred years or so.
In order to allow ourselves to have time to adapt to the effects of climate change, we need to reduce the rate at which it occurs.
The only way that we can reduce the rate at which climate change occurs would be to reduce our carbon emissions since, ultimately, carbon emissions compound with one another such that if there are higher emissions now and in the future, it will create an exponential increase in the temperature.
This is the source of the famous hockey stick graph, if you've ever seen the old al gore movie about climate change.
But aside from this, we also think that it's important because in the short to medium term, we have the ability to create change.
We have this imperative to do something, and solar panels uniquely offer us a way to do that without creating further problems down the line.
Wind power is very expensive and inefficient, so investing in that would be a bad investment.
Nuclear power has political problems and ultimately disposing of the waste can be difficult, so it's obvious that solar power is probably the best way given the technology that we have to cope with climate change.
Therefore, we need to drastically increase the amount of solar power that we harvest and use.
But our second argument for why we should do this is that it would let countries be more energy independent.
Right now, a few countries, like the united states or mexico, are energy independent.
They produce more energy than they import.
Most countries, though, such as germany or britain, have to import huge amounts of energy in the form of oil or buying electricity from their neighbors in order to support their populace.
That means that these countries are subject to the volatility of the international energy market.
For instance, when the ruble crashed, that created huge shocks in oil prices a few years back which greatly affected all of europe because they were depending on russia to provide them with oil and with natural gas.
If countries like czech republic or germany had been using solar energy instead, then they wouldn't rely on foreign, especially russian, energy in order to provide for their people.
This is good for a few reasons.
One: it makes it easier for governments to subsidize access to energy so that pensioners or low-income people don't have to worry about being able to afford heating, since the government can now control the rate more easily without relying on import prices.
Two: it reduces volatility, which I've already spoken a little bit about, so that even if there is a crash in something's value, your people don't have to go without electricity potentially.
And three: it promotes a domestic industry that can never be outsourced.
Jobs in maintaining your own energy infrastructure can never be sent to india or china, so ultimately this ensures that you'll have high quality jobs for engineers and scientists and also jobs for all the people who work at these plants, these good blue-collar jobs.
So ultimately, this is obviously to a country's interest and we should further exploit solar energy.
Thank you.