We should not increase the capital gains tax.
The capital gains tax is a tax placed on the return on investments, for instance, stocks and bonds.
Right now, it's a flat tax rate at about twenty five percent in the united states.
We think that it would be harmful to significantly increase the rate for the capital gains tax.
Our first point is if any country, such as the united states, or britain, or germany, that has a capital gains tax increase that tax rate, it would discourage investment in that country.
Why?
Well, even if I am a canadian national, if I invest in american stocks, I have to pay american capital gains tax, because I earned that income in the united states.
So what that means is that if the US raises the capital gains tax compared to other countries, it becomes less competitive for investments.
If I have to pay a twenty five percent rate in the states to invest in a company, and I could pay a ten percent rate to invest in singapore in a similar company, I would be much more tempted to invest in singapore, because I would pay a lower tax rate on what I earn.
And even if other countries aren't as safe to invest in as, let's say, the US or germany, a sufficiently low capital gains tax could still attract people to invest there, because they'd be willing to accept that risk for a greater return.
So we think that you discourage foreign investment when you raise your capital gains tax and that because of this, it's harder for companies in your country to raise capital, and therefore it's harder for them to grow your economy through expansion.
Our second point here is that this drives up speculation in other parts of the economy.
If people can't put their money in the stock market for the same returns that they would expect, they're going to look to other places where they can put their money, at least on the margin, and I think that oftentimes that's going to be property.
If you think about the three main vehicles for investment in a modern economy, you have stocks, you have bonds, and you have real property.
And since bonds have very low return since the financial crisis, and you're making it less attractive to have stocks, people are going to invest in real estate.
When people use real estate as a kind of capital investment, it drives up the cost of housing for everyone.
Why?
Well, the cost of a house is determined by the price that someone is willing to pay for it.
It's a kind of highest bidder situation.
And if you have investors who are now coming in and looking for a place to park their money, you have more people bidding, and therefore the price of housing is going to go up.
But this doesn't only affect people who want to buy homes either.
If the cost of owning a home goes up, so will the rent, because rent is tied to the cost that homeowners have to pay in order to maintain those properties.
So we think that by making stocks a less attractive investment option, you make real estate a more attractive investment option, and therefore you drive up the cost of housing and rent for everyone in your country.
The last argument that we'd like to make is that higher taxes don't necessarily lead to higher revenue.
In fact, sometimes they do quite the opposite.
To give a a frequently cited example, in the nineteen sixties, the united states had a top income tax rate at about ninety percent.
So if you made over, let's say, a million dollars, you were paying ninety percent of that over-a-million-dollars income in tax.
As a result, people would go to almost any length to avoid paying their income tax: moving money offshore, risking breaking the law, etcetera, because the costs to them were so high.
We think that if you raise capital gains, you similarly encourage people to avoid paying that capital gains tax.
It doesn't make a lot of sense to take any risk to avoid paying a tax of twenty or twenty five percent, but if you were looking at a tax of fifty percent, suddenly it might make sense to try to use some funny numbers or shady business to avoid paying your taxes, and that can actually lower the revenue for the government.
So for all these reasons, we should not increase the capital gains tax.
Thank you.