We should limit the exploitation of natural resources.
On our side we recognize that natural resources are extremely precious and that sometimes we have to use them for certain processes but that this is something that shouldn't be done willy-nilly, that we need to take it seriously when we use up our natural resources.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for our side.
The first is that our resources are fundamentally finite and we need to consider how this affects future people and the second is about how the private sphere often gains at the expense of the public sphere when we exploit our natural resources.
So on to our first argument here.
We would tell you that because natural resources tend to be finite, for instance once you mine aluminum out of the earth it's gone and you'll never get more aluminum in the earth.
We need to consider that the use now prevents its use in the future.
We think it's important to treat ourselves as stewards of our natural resources who have to consider everyone who comes after us rather than to just see this as free money buried under the ground.
One thing to factor in here is that current extraction processes are often very dangerous for the environment, very dirty for instance and often inefficient.
Consider that back when oil was first discovered in texas, they would just let these oil pumps run all the time and a huge amount of the oil ended up getting wasted and going into the ground and getting into the groundwater rather than being barreled.
Where as today there's very very little waste barring some sort of industrial accident.
So you can see that it might have been better if some of that hard to access oil had been extracted in the nineteen nineties rather than being extracted in the nineteen twenties when technology just wasn't as good.
Similarly, maybe in the future we'll be able to mine in the rockies without tearing down whole mountains for instance or maybe we'll be able to extract coal without destroying entire river systems.
It seems quite likely that technology will continue to get greener and more sophisticated and less wasteful.
So if we extract fewer resources now than when they are extracted, it'll be done in a better way.
But moreover, we also have to consider that future people are also going to need these resources and that when there are consumables like coal or natural gas, we need to conserve them for the future so that other people are able to access them as we were, at least as much as possible.
And our second argument is about this problem of privatization.
In most countries mineral rights are seemed to belong to the public and then they're sold off.
For instance if you own a piece of land oftentimes you don't own the right to drill under it, the state does and in the past, in america at least, these mineral rights have been sold off well below any sort of market value.
Oftentimes companies will survey land and then buy it from the government who has no idea that there are valuable minerals in it so it sold at pennies on the dollar for what it's actually worth.
This impoverishes the public because it's taking away one of our most important public resources, namely the land, and it makes a handful of very very wealthy people and companies even richer.
This is a couple of problems.
First, in many developing countries it siphons riches out of the country.
The only real valuable resource that a country like say malaysia has to offer to the world aside from its labor are its natural resources.
But if you have a dutch company like shell coming in and buying land and drilling for oil and then sending the profits back to the netherlands, the people in that country aren't really benefiting very much.
So we see that you have a public resource being used for entirely private profits and we think that's not a good thing because it reduces the amount of money that's available to build schools and the like.
Now the other side might so that you can tax those profits but in practice it's very difficult to tax these large multinational companies especially oil and resource extraction companies that often have a larger size than some country's economies.
For all these reasons, we should limit the exploitation of natural resources.
Thank you.