We should not prohibit international adoption.
Before I get into my three arguments, I just want to point out that presumably we're talking about legal adoption in this debate since right now illegal or gray market adoptions are already prohibited.
The change from the status quo would be to prohibit legal forms of adoption.
With that in mind, three arguments.
First, we think that ultimately international adoption is for the good of the children.
Many of the children who are adopted through these international adoption agencies would otherwise never have the opportunity to have a family.
We tell you that at the point that international adoption gives these children loving households and families who are willing to support and care for them, that ultimately this ought be allowed.
In this debate you should care about the children who are being adopted or not adopted more than any other actor.
This is true for a few reasons: first, these children cannot help themselves.
They're dependent on the state or on adults to intervene and act on their behalf.
Second, they've already been through some traumatic experience or loss at the point where they don't have a family of their own to care for them, and third, they're the agent that would most be impacted by banning this type of adoption.
So with that in mind you should not prohibit international adoption because it's the only opportunity that these children have to get a family, presumably, at the point where they're not being adopted in their home country.
And therefore, because they're the most important actor in the debate, you ought defer to the side that offers them this opportunity.
But what's more, we tell you, that we agree with the other side that most likely these are children being adopted from less well off countries like romania, to more well off countries like the united states.
We think that, ultimately, these children are being given a quality of life that they would not have in their home country.
Many of these orphans probably wouldn't attend university or have the opportunity to go on to work in certain professions, and are then given that opportunity because of this adoption.
We think that if you care about maximizing individual freedom, which you ought, than these children are more free when they're adopted and given these opportunities in britain or the united states versus what they would have had open to them as orphans in their home country.
Our second argument is that even if you don't care about the children, that international adoption is good for their native countries.
When these children live in orphanages, they're effectively a drain on their state.
So when you have orphanages in russia or romania or other countries which are full of children, ultimately the state is responsible for caring for and maintaining them.
This is a huge drain on state resources as they have to pay for these children's health care, food, everything that their family would have given them.
And what's more, these children are unlikely to go on to be extremely wealthy people afterwards.
So they probably don't pay in a lot of money in taxes, relative to what other people do, because they grew up without these opportunities.
What we tell you, therefore, is that it would ultimately be better to let a wealthier country and a wealthier family bear the cost of raising these children then these countries where they live right now.
So we think it's to their good as well.
Our third argument is that if you ban legal adoption then more people will actually turn to gray market or black market adoption.
So the last speaker talked to you about the risk of human trafficking.
It's much more likely that you get more human trafficking if you ban legal options.
Recognize that markets exist because there is a demand for some good.
In this case the good is children to be adopted.
If the only way to get these children is to go through illegal channels, then there is likely some portion of people who, in the status quo, would get children through legal channels who will now turn to illegal ones.
So the comparative is that there is actually more human trafficking, more children being basically sold, than exist in the status quo.
We think that this is an unacceptable harm and that ultimately if you want to protect these children from the black market, then you should create legal avenues for their adoption.
For these reasons we should not prohibit international adoption.
Thank you.