Boarding schools should not be abolished.
We're going to argue that boarding schools should continue, at a bare minimum, to be offered to students and that, if anything, it might be better if more secondary students went to boarding school rather than schools where they live at home.
So our first point is that boarding schools offer a good environment for students to learn in.
Will seems very concerned in his last speech that boarding school students are spending less time with their families.
But I'd like to point out that for many students, time spent with their families is not conducive to success in education or the workplace.
For students who grew up in bad neighborhoods, abusive families, or even students who grew up in countries in which development is not evenly distributed, such that one province is highly developed and another province is free backwards, we think that there are clear advantages to being sent to boarding school in that case.
Students can't learn if they're not placed in in environment in which learning is celebrated and facilitated by the adults around them.
So if by sending students to boarding school, we can give them a safer environment, one in which they are around more adults who encourage them and are able to help them succeed, one in which they have more access to the resources that they need to do well in school, and this is probably especially true for low income students or students from developing countries, then obviously we ought put students in that environment.
It would be a shame if we got rid of boarding schools, because that would mean that students whose day schools are really failing them or whose environments are setting them up for failure wouldn't be able to escape them in any way.
We think that, if anything, it might be better if more students were given the opportunity to attend boarding schools.
Right now, that opportunity tends to be clustered on very elite families who can afford, you know, high prices for dormitories and things like that, but maybe states should be focused on setting up boarding schools for low income students who are achieving a lot so that they can go on to succeed.
And we think that the benefits that accrue extend even beyond secondary school, that if you go to a school where you're empowered to succeed, you're more likely to get into a good university or get a scholarship or to be able to go and get a very skilled job.
So ultimately we think that these are benefits that accrue throughout a student's life and that therefore we ought not wave them off just because they spend a little bit less time with their families, who I'm sure they still see at holidays and things like that.
Our second argument is about the reason why we think parents have a right to choose where to send their children to school.
Because presumably we're not talking about some weird world in which students are drafted or forced by lottery to go to boarding school.
I think probably in every instance, the student's parents have chosen that they want them to have this opportunity.
At that point, we think that you need to defer to the idea that parents know what's best for their children and have a right to decide for them, rather than the government's notion that ultimately they know what's best for children.
Why is this true?
Well first of all, we let parents make all kinds of decisions about their children's education day to day anyway.
For instance, whether you go to christian sunday school every week is a decision that your parents make for you that is an important part of your education.
At the same time, we let parents make other important decisions about their children like, for instance, if they're going to participate in sport or scouting or music or other extracurricular activities that are still an important part of a young person's education.
We think that at that point, we ought defer to letting parents make this decision as well.
And the reason that parents can make this decision, the reason why we give them this right, is that they know their individual child better than the state does.
The government might be able to say that seventy six percent of children do better at a day school than a boarding school in this income bracket, in this neighborhood, but parents know their individual child and know what that individual needs much better than the government does looking at statistics or larger factors.
So ultimately we think that we should defer to this right that we commonly give to parents to make decisions about their child's education and that this will be for the good of the child in the long term.
For all these reasons, boarding schools should not be abolished.
Thank you.