We should prohibit pipeline transport.
So I think what this debate really comes down to is transporting oil, natural gas, and other, you know, hydrocarbons through long pipelines as opposed to shipping it in other ways or reducing its transfer at all.
Probably the most famous example of this, in recent years, has been the keystone XL pipeline that goes through much of the northern united states.
It runs for thousands of miles.
There've been a lot of problems with the old pipeline that it's replacing, but I think that that's kind of a good framework to think about when we look at this debate.
So our first argument is about the environmental harms that these pipelines have.
Despite the claims of contractors who built them, these always lead to huge leaks of oil into local environments.
There's just no way to maintain a two thousand mile long pipeline or a five hundred mile long pipeline without having leaks somewhere along the line all the time.
Oil is always going into the groundwater and always going into the environment from these pipelines, and perhaps that's less of a concern for natural gas, but I can't imagine that it's good for the environment to have natural gas leaking either.
These harms ultimately pollute groundwater, they pollute farmland, they kill local wildlife, and have many secondary harms as well when they change those ecosystems.
We think that it's oftentimes the case that these pipelines are built in areas where the people can't advocate as much for themselves so these harms basically accrue to, for instance, native americans, or people who aren't ethnic russians in russia, or other groups that aren't able to provide for themselves with the same kind of political advocacy that the dominant group can.
So you have massive harms accruing to the environment that also disproportionately affect people who can't advocate for themselves, and we think that that's unacceptable and that it's not something you can avoid, that it's not one tiny bug of pipelines, it's just a fact of their very existence.
Our second argument is that these encourage oil and natural gas dependence.
One of the largest discussions with pipelines in recent years has been building natural gas pipelines from russia into central europe so that the EU can consume more russian natural gas.
In a world where we didn't build more pipelines, europe would have to adopt more alternative energy sources rather than keep relying on cheap russian natural gas, and that would obviously be better for the environment.
But as long as we continue to allow pipeline construction, it will be easy for people to get cheap fossil fuels, at least in the medium term.
And that means you get less investment into alternative energies and more dependence on oil and natural gas, which is devastating for the environment and also is going to drive up the cost of converting to alternative energy down the line.
No matter how high the cost, it will never be cheaper than it is right now to convert to alternative energy.
It's only going to get more expensive over time, and we need to keep that in mind and stop driving down the cost of oil and natural gas with pipelines.
And the last argument we would make is that these break up the environment where they're in.
These pipelines can divide communities because oftentimes people aren't allowed to go near them.
They separate animals from different parts of their habitats and make it more different for difficult for them, I should say, to migrate.
And they can also divide up the landscape of countries in other ways, for instance, forcing us to divert rail and road transport and other things as well.
These can also be divisive in communities and lead to a massive protest or violence against the pipeline.
Many of these have been the victims or the objects, I should say, of terror attacks by environmental terrorists, which obviously have huge costs.
So we think that there are both physical and social divisions created in a country by these pipelines that could be better avoided if we prohibited this type of energy transfer.
For all of these reasons, we should prohibit pipeline transport.
Thank you.