Homeschooling should be banned.
So, by this, we mean to say that parents should not be able to keep their children out of recognize schools.
We're fine with, you know, private parochial schools run by the church or by other groups, but we think that children should either be in a public school or one of these private parochial schools, that they ought not be educated in the home.
Three arguments for our side this evening: the first is that the school environment is important for children.
School is one of the first times that children are away from their parents for long periods of time.
It's here that they learn to act as independent agents from their parents, to make decisions for themselves, to resolve problems as they see them arising.
And oftentimes, this breeds one of the most important types of intelligence a person can have: namely, the ability to react to a situation as it develops.
Some of the most important lessons that we learn in school aren't from math books, they're from the other children, whether it's learning how to avoid getting into a fight, how to talk to boys or girls, how to make friends in a new and unfamiliar and sometimes hostile environment.
These are all skills that are going to follow us for the rest of our life and be every bit as valuable as our knowledge of shakespeare.
So, ultimately, we think it's important that children are in this environment, where their parents can't hover over them like little helicopters, where they're forced to interact with other people of their own age, with relatively little supervision at times, while still in this kind of safe environment.
The other side is probably going to say that there are activities, like soccer or boy scouts, where children can meet other people of their own age, but playing soccer with your parents watching is always going to be different than sneaking around behind the school throwing rocks at each other with your friends.
We just don't think that these things are really comparable.
We think that the socialization that you need to succeed is really going to come from a school environment rather than anywhere else.
Our second point is about the need for common standards.
Recognize that we set a certain standard for things that people have to know in order to be good workers and good citizens.
For instance, you have to know your multiplication tables, you have to have read certain authors from your home country, that kind of thing.
There's just a kind of common baseline amount of knowledge that it's assumed every adult will have, and school is how we get people to that point.
Now, while it's true that you can publish standards for homeschool, there's actually no way to enforce these.
It's relatively easy for parents to take tests for their children or let them cheat, something that certainly happened with homeschool students I knew growing up, and then not actually teach them important information.
So you end up with homeschooled americans who don't know who abraham lincoln is and why he's on the five dollar bill, but they know all kinds of things about whatever their parents happen to think is important.
We think that it's unfair to these children not to give them this kind of common framework of knowledge that everyone will assume that they have as adults.
So homeschooling ought be banned for that reason as well.
But our final argument is about the type of citizens that homeschooling produces.
When people go to school, they're exposed to certain common values.
You meet people of different races and religions and beliefs and creeds, and it's much more difficult for people to entrench deep prejudices when they're surrounded by those who are very different from themselves.
If you only know people who go to your parents' church and hold your parents' religious beliefs, and if your education is centered all around religion, you're probably much more likely to become an islamophobic adult, especially if your parents are islamophobic, than if you go to school and there are muslim people in your classes.
We think that this socialization is important to creating responsible future citizens and that it will never happen in these homeschool environments.
For all these reasons, homeschooling should be banned.