We should promote unisex bathrooms.
So we would argue that far from banning unisex bathrooms every public facility such as a business or a government office should be required to have at least one unisex bathroom.
We would be fine with this being a single user bathroom that locks before you get to the toilet area or a larger bathroom with multiple toilet stalls.
That said we have three arguments for our side.
The first is quite simple and is in response to something kind of silly about sam's speech.
He says that we should ban unisex bathrooms completely.
But I'd like to ask what is the utility of making a single user bathroom gendered.
In my old office we had two bathrooms.
Both of them were it was an office converted from a house so both of them were single bathrooms similar to what you would find in a private home where the door locked and then you had a toilet and a sink.
There was no sense in gendering these bathrooms because they were already single user only one person could be in them at a time.
So all that would have happened if you had gendered them is that people would have to wait in line for one bathroom while the other one was empty based on which people of which sex were trying to use the bathroom.
So we think that ultimately this is just absurd when it comes to single user bathrooms which are quite common in many businesses in the united states.
If you go to the bathroom at most restaurants or bars in the US and from my experience in europe as well you would find that they can only be used by one person.
So there's no benefit to gendering these bathrooms.
Any of sam's points about giving people a safe space apply there as well.
So our first argument though is that we should avoid gendered spaces whenever possible.
The reason why is that these spaces are exclusive to people who are outside of the gender binary or who are transgender.
And while these people are a small minority in society they're one that faces undue forms of harassment and sexual violence.
There is a huge amount of violence against transgender or sexual minority people in the united states and in many other countries and we think that ultimately forcing people to gender themselves one way or another only increases this violence.
My state north carolina passed a law a couple of years ago that requires people to use the bathroom that matches the sex on their birth certificate.
And of course in their infinite wisdom our government has decided not to let people change their sex on their birth certificate even if they have sexual reassignment surgery.
So you could have someone with a big bushy beard and male genitalia forced to use a supposedly women's restroom because the state government has decided that that's what they have to do.
We think that this is absurd that ultimately that would probably make people feel less safe than brooke letting people choose which bathroom to use.
But you could avoid all of this nonsense by just having unisex bathrooms that anyone could use without gendering themselves.
So we think that that's a better alternative to either having this law or having people use the bathroom that people might be uncomfortable with them using.
And our final argument is that there's no evidence that gendered bathrooms actually prevent assault or violence.
There's no good evidence that if you had unisex bathrooms you would have people being assaulted in them or that people would feel uncomfortable using these bathrooms.
In fact it seems quite likely to me that people would go in use them and leave just like they do right now.
Sam talks about how sometimes we put information for people in trouble in bathrooms but there's no reason that you can't have the phone number for a sexual assault support service in a unisex bathroom either.
We have them in men's and women's bathrooms right now.
So at the end of the day we should promote unisex bathrooms because they let people not be put into gendered boxes and ultimately they make people actually feel more comfortable.
Thank you.