We should further exploit natural gas.
So by this we mean to say that western countries should prioritize adopting natural gas to replace coal and oil based power plants and the developing countries should build natural gas power plants rather than coal plants.
So we think that whenever there's a trade off between natural gas and another fossil fuel or traditional fuel source, that we ought prioritize natural gas.
Were agnostic about whether this would trade off with things like nuclear power, we're really more focused here on coal and oil.
Our first argument is that this is a stepping stone to a cleaner world.
Natural gas has many fewer harmful emissions than coal in particular, but also oil as well.
We think that not only should natural gas be used to things power plants for cities, but that other countries should follow india's lead and widely adopt liquid natural gas as a way to power cars, buses and other vehicles.
In new delhi for instance all of the public buses run on liquid natural gas which releases much less pollution and smog than corresponding amounts of gasoline would.
Lately some american cities like los angeles have begun to adopt the same principle in order to fight smog.
We think that anything that we can do that will cut down on emissions of fossil or other of greenhouse gases, pardon me, would ultimately be good for the environment and reduce climate change.
But it's also good for the people who live in these cities.
Los angeles is famous for its smog for instance but it's already been cut back significantly, in part by efforts to adopt natural gas in place of traditional petroleum.
And in new delhi I'm told that it's made a very large difference as well since there are so many public buses on the street.
Ultimately, while natural gas isn't perfect and it would be nice if everyone could use nuclear power instead, the technology to adopt it is very cheap and already extent and that makes it more accessible than other types of energy, for developing countries in particular, and more palatable to voters and politicians in developed countries.
So we think that this is an excellent alternative to jumping straight to renewable energies.
Our second argument is that we think that the use of natural gas will promote trade and stability.
One of the most important reasons why there hasn't been another major global conflict since world war two is because the entire world is caught up in trade with one another and everyone's economy depends on everyone else's.
Keeping this international system stable requires keeping russia as an important player in the international system.
Unfortunately, russia is a petrol state.
Its main exports are oil and natural gas.
Oil use is declining in many western countries and ultimately is going to peak in the next hundred years or so.
We worry that in the future russia will be less committed to international peace if its major export is no longer a source of stability for the country, but rather a potential harm.
If we rely on natural gas instead though then russia will build more pipelines to its neighbors and be more connected to europe, china and other countries than it is right now.
We think that this is likely to lead to greater peace in the long term between other countries and russia.
And not to put all the blame on them either.
We think that if european countries are dependent on russian natural gas, that they'll have to behave in a more respectful and appropriate way towards russia.
Moreover, we think that for many middle eastern countries, whose economies are going to collapse once oil goes away, natural gas is a stepping stone to a more sustainable economy.
This gives these countries a second opportunity to have massive energy exports that they can invest into sovereign wealth funds or diversifying their economies so that once the natural gas and oil are gone their people won't be returned to the destitution that existed in countries like the emirates work fossil fuels were discovered.
So because it's a stepping stone to a cleaner earth and because it promotes trade and stability we should further exploit natural gas.
Thank you.