We should not privatize air traffic controllers.
On our side, we're going to explain why the status quo doesn't need reform, why this type of market is a natural monopoly and that would cause problems if we privatized it, and why this would lead to issues with the union that represents the united states air traffic controllers.
So, first of all, we tell you that if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
Right now, air traffic controllers do an amazing job under a a huge amount of pressure and ensuring that people are able to travel safely throughout the united states and our territorial waters.
We think that it's a very impressive achievement that the government has been able to organize air traffic controllers such that there is a seamless handoff between planes as they move from one zone to another and so that a huge amount of traffic around many american cities is managed safely.
We think that while it's possibly true that there is an alternate world in which this had always been private and things work well, given that we have a system right now that is not very expensive, that is extremely safe, and that is extremely efficient, there's no reason to change that system.
And, in particular, I'd like to point out that almost all air traffic controllers are former military.
They learn to be air traffic controllers in the military and gain those skills in that way, and then come out and work for the government.
So we think that there's kind of a natural pipeline in place to train these people appropriately, at the public expense, and then have them work for the public good.
So we think that this is something that's actually working really well and not something that we should seek to change by having private air traffic controllers and private air traffic controller training which, even if it could equal the quality, probably couldn't surpass it, since the current system is essentially perfect at preventing accidents due to air traffic control.
Our second argument is that this is a natural monopoly and so we shouldn't privatize it.
Every given region of the united states, say, an area a few hundred miles around a major city, has one group of air traffic controllers.
There's no room for competition here.
You can't have one company of air traffic controllers compete with another for regulating the boston air space, because planes need to radio into one tower and all be coordinated in one central place.
So we think that the main benefit of privatization, namely competition, just doesn't exist for this market.
As a result, what you'd probably see is a monopoly that controlled the entire air traffic control system for the US, which would be no more efficient than the current system and wouldn't act in the public interest, the way the state does, or you would have small regional monopolies.
And we think that that could lead to complications with handoffs from one region to another if different companies don't communicate effectively, with differences in the level of training and the standards that are applied.
And so, ultimately, we don't think this would be an improvement on the government-run system.
Now the other side might argue that the state could set extremely firm regulations on these companies.
But, at that point, what's the point of privatizing if you don't save any money and there's no way to improve the standards, only to try to keep them the same?
And the final thing we'd like to bring up is that all air traffic controllers in the US are part of one union, which is carefully regulated after the air traffic controllers strike in the nineteen eighties.
We think that it would be very difficult to restructure their contracts in accordance with what most private workers have, for instance, their pensions, their health care.
All of these things are very generous compared to most other workers because they're the backbone of american air travel.
We don't think any private company would be willing or able to offer the kind of pension and other benefits this union receives, so we think it's very likely that there would be more strikes that could cripple air travel if we were to privatize this industry.
For all these reasons, we should not privatize air traffic control.
Thank you.