We should subsidize student loans.
So by student loans we mean low interest rate loans made available for higher education and loans which don't accrue interest during the time a person is in school.
This how most americans go to college right now.
They take out subsidized loans from the government which have artificially low interest rates, let's say three percent at a time when the market is five or six percent, and the government pays the interest on these loans during the time that a person is a full time student.
So right now I'm a full time student the interest on my loans is being paid by the US government.
Thanks uncle sam.
We have a few reasons why we should subsidize student loans in the future.
The first is about access to education.
Very few people actually have enough capital to pay for an american university up front.
While it's true that in some countries like germany, university is very affordable, maybe a few hundred euros a semester.
In the US oftentimes the cost of attendance could be fifty or sixty thousand dollars.
Even very cheap US universities still tend to run to the tune of twenty or thirty thousand dollars.
A lot of people just don't have this kind of capital up front.
So even people who could afford to pay off this cost in the long term, wouldn't be able to go to college if they weren't able to borrow money from somewhere.
But borrowing at unsubsidized rates presents a huge burden to students because not only are they borrowing thousands of dollars but also they're accruing huge amounts of interest while they're in school and can't possibly pay them back.
This traps people in a cycle where they're just paying off the interest for years and years and years before they even begin to touch the principal.
So if you want to increase access to education for most people especially in the US you need to subsidize student loans so that they don't harm people while they're in school.
Our second argument is that fewer people will default if student loans are subsidized.
This seems [trivally/trivially} true but it's important for a few reasons.
So the reason why this is true is that if the loans are subsidized, interest rates are lower, that more people will be able to afford to pay them off and therefore you won't have defaults.
Defaults are really serious because they ruin someone's ability to be a productive member of society.
If a person defaults on their student loans that they won't be able to buy a house, or buy a car, or do a lot of other things that would help to grow the economy.
Most of the things that adult americans do nowadays rely on having a good credit score and destroying people's credit scores because of these defaults would ultimately harm them in the long term.
In many cases the government would lose out in fact because if someone were to default on their student loans, which is very difficult in the US but not in other countries, then the state would presumably lose out on all the money that they guaranteed in the first place.
So on our side we have fewer defaults and that's better both for the borrower and the lender in the long term and it's more than worth the small cost of the subsidy.
And our final argument is that this encourages people to go back to school later in life.
Plenty of people don't go to school when they're eighteen or nineteen, instead they go back when they're thirty or forty in order to change their career.
On our side we think that people are much more likely to do this when they're able to borrow money relatively easily.
If it were very expensive to borrow, then that would disincentivize people from going back to get an education.
Because more educated people tend to make more money and because people who change their careers tend to be happier after they've changed their careers, we think that it would be better both from a tax receipt purpose and also from the perspective of the individuals to encourage more people to go back and change their careers if they're not happy right now and we do that on our side by making retraining more accessible.
So for all of these reasons, we should subsidize student loans.
Thank you.