Prenatal diagnosis should not be mandatory.
We don't think that the state should be in the business of telling people what they can or can't do, and we think that it will ultimately have unintended consequences if you do require that people get these prenatal diagnoses.
So, a couple of arguments for our side.
The first is that this simply isn't the government's role to decide what people do and don't do.
Ultimately we tell you there are only a few instances when the state should get involved.
The first is when there's a lack of access to information, but we think that even if people don't know about the benefits of prenatal diagnosis, that it would be better for the government to provide education than to require people to do this.
Ultimately if there really is an information asymmetry, it could be better corrected through education than coercion.
We think the other side needs to explain to you why only coercion is acceptable when education could also close this gap.
Another time when the state might get involved is when there are harms to a third party and the other side might say that the harms to the child that might be born are harms to this third party, but we think it's clear that a fetus in utero is not really meaningfully distinct as a person from its mother inasmuch as we allow abortion or other practices on the fetus so it's clear that they can't be treated as a separate third party by the law and therefore that there's no need for the government to step in on their behalf for that reason.
The last case might be that there's a compelling state interest and they might say that since the state pays for health care that people have an obligation to try to minimize costs by getting these diagnoses.
But there's no reason why people with private health care should be compelled to get these prenatal diagnosis then, because they're not costing the state anything so there's no compelling state interest.
So it's clear that there is no good case for the government to be in the business of forcing people to get these prenatal diagnoses done.
It's simply not the government's job to decide what people do and don't do in those instances.
Our next point is that this creates resentment and backlash towards the government.
Right now, pretty much everybody probably has a favorable view towards prenatal diagnosis, it's just something you can do to help your baby out and to be sure that they're going to be healthy.
But what happens when the state gets involved and requires it of people is suddenly people are going to view this not a some benevolent thing that they can do to help their child but is big government telling them how to live their lives.
So people will resent something that should be completely benign.
This is certainly an unintended consequence but we think that it's very likely that this is going to happen.
Ultimately we ought not implement these prenatal diagnoses because the backlash will be huge harms.
We think that more people will refuse to get these prenatal diagnoses if they see it as uncle sam looking over their shoulder than they do in status quo when it's just something benevolent.
Right now no one has a reason not to want this, the only barrier is cost.
But as we've already told if people are being forced to get it some people will put their backs up and refuse to get it.
And we also think that this might lead to backlash against the practice in itself.
People might for instance slander its efficacy in the same way that they have with vaccines.
It used to be that parents were going out of their way to be sure that their children got vaccines so that they wouldn't get sick but then once they became mandatory gradually there was backlash and then after that we saw that their credibility was attacked by hacks.
So we think that in the same way liars are telling people that vaccines cause autism, you might see people claiming that prenatal diagnoses are in some way harmful for the baby or the mother as well.
So ultimately we think that these risks outweigh the marginal benefits of a few more people choosing to get these types of prenatal diagnosis because actually fewer people would get them and it might undermine our ability to offer them in the future at all.
For all these reasons, prenatal diagnoses should not be mandatory.
Thank you.