We should cancel pride parades.
So, pride parades are parades held by the gay community in some cities around the world to celebrate the community and certain rights that have been achieved or to advocate for greater expansion of rights to the gay community.
We think that cities should stop issuing permits for these parades to occur.
We have a few reasons why we think this would be preferable to the status quo.
First, we think that pride parades create a problematic narrative about what it means for a person to be part of the LGBTQ community.
Ultimately, pride parades promote a certain idea of what it means to be LGBTQ that doesn't include many of the people who should be included in that umbrella.
In particular, we think that these parades tend to be dominated by gays and lesbians at the expense of transexual and bi people, who may face even greater discrimination but aren't included in the public perception of what pride is about.
But secondly, they're also very prescriptive about what it means for someone to be gay or lesbian.
The idea of the stereotypically flamboyant gay person who's very out and very proud and very loud about their sexual preferences doesn't really apply to everyone.
We think that people who are either from those more marginalized LGBTQ backgrounds are less likely to feel included, but also that people who are black, who are religious, who are from immigrant communities that are less accepting of this kind of flamboyance are systematically excluded from traditional pride parades.
They're really just a celebration of the most privileged people within the LGBTQ community, namely, white men and women, generally from an upper-class background, who live in a community that's accepting of this.
There's a reason that these parades tend to take place in cities like boston or san francisco and not in poorer or more rural areas where people are less accepting, even though there are just as many gay people in those communities.
We think that ultimately there are many harms to this exclusive narrative.
First of all, it gives people a false perception of what it means for someone to be LGBTQ, and they think: oh, those people don't belong in my community, or don't exist in my community, which makes it harder for closeted people, especially youth living in those communities, to come out and be open about their identity, because they're always being given this prescriptive narrative that doesn't include them and their experience.
It also hides the existence of transgender or bisexual people, who generally are not included in this narrative about what it means to be gay according to pride parades and the images that they create.
So things like bi erasure are actually made worse by the existence of these pride parades, many of which are put on by organizations that are explicitly exclusive of bi people.
And what's more, this also glosses over some of the darkest parts of discrimination against LGBTQ people.
When was the last time you saw anyone talk about homeless trans youths at a pride parade?
We think that, ultimately, for this to be the big event that draws attention to this community, it does a really poor job at conveying what that community actually needs because it's so focused on people of privilege.
So we think that this narrative is very harmful and therefore that these parades ought be ended.
But the second thing we'd like to talk about is the backlash that they generate.
We think that many instances of violence or discrimination against the LGBTQ community are actually driven by these parades and by the narrative that they create.
When people think that gay people are very flamboyant and different from themselves, it's harder for them to empathize.
So we think that this actually increases the size of the empathy gap between some people in the gay community and leads to more backlash and more violence against people.
So we think that's also a good reason to end these parades, because they don't really represent the community, and they undermine empathy and understanding.
For all these reasons, we should cancel pride parades.
Thank you.