We should abolish open primaries in the united states.
So before we begin a little bit of background.
In the united states the two major political parties choose their presidential candidates through a system of we'll say just primaries for the purposes of this debate.
In some of those primaries you have to be a party member to vote.
So for instance, you would have to be a member of the democratic party to vote in the democratic party primary.
In other states anyone is free to vote whether or not they're a member of that political party.
In the US it's fairly easy to join a political party, it's usually free, so we're going to say there's no significant barriers, for the purposes of this debate, to joining one of the two big political parties.
So with that in mind, three arguments for why we should abolish open primaries.
The first is that these undermine the purpose of a primary.
Recognize primaries do not exist to pick the next president.
They exist to express the will of people in the party about who they would like to see as that party's candidate.
This is why primaries aren't run by the government, contrary to popular belief.
They're run by the political parties.
We tell you that ultimately if you have an open primary it doesn't reflect the will of the party membership.
You could, for instance, in an area with relatively few republicans, have lots and lots of people who normally would identify as democrats vote and override the will of the republicans in that district.
We think that ultimately if you're going to have primaries in the first place, to allow the people to have input on party decisions, then you ought at least make sure that the people who are members of that party are able to express themselves.
Even if you don't have a situation like I described where people are outvoted, we still think that party members have comparatively less control when you have open primaries.
So for that reason we should abolish open primaries.
Our second argument is about sabotage.
It's very easy for people to vote for the other party's primary in order to get a worse candidate.
We see that many democrats did this with donald trump actually.
They were afraid that marco rubio or ted cruz would be better candidates so they went and voted in open primaries for the republicans in order to support donald trump, and in doing so they subverted the will of the republicans in that district in a very open, intentional way.
So again we think that that's a good enough reason to ban it because the actual republicans living in that district didn't have their will expressed.
But on top of that, while trump did go on to win, we see that it makes it easy for a party to undermine their opponents ability to choose a winning candidate.
So we think that at the point where parties have these primaries in order to choose candidates with a chance of winning, open primaries actually undermine your chance of getting a good candidate.
The other side might say that there are ways to correct for this, but we think that anytime you let people sabotage the other party they will.
Just think about conservatives who joined the labor party to support jeremy corbin for instance.
It's a similar phenomenon where enemies of a particular party joined in order to sabotage that party's success in elections.
Our third argument is about how this does damage to party conventions.
After you have all the primaries, all of the people from the primaries who were elected go to a big convention and then select who the candidate will be.
So for instance if michigan supported bernie sanders and new york supported hillary clinton, then all of their people go to the convention and the people from michigan vote for sanders and the people from new york vote for clinton and as we all know eventually clinton won out.
But the conventions are worse if you have people selected who don't actually reflect the will of the people.
They make it more likely that you can't elect anyone on the first round and that you have a longer more contentious convention.
When you have a more contentious race between candidates this means that you do more damage fighting each other and spend more time doing that then you would fighting against the republicans or the democrats from the other side.
So we see that ultimately this harms your ability to win general elections.
For all of these reasons we should abolish open primaries.
Thank you.