We should adopt the metric system and since there's only one country in the world so hard headed as not to have done this or one prominent country anyway, I'm going to assume this debate is about the united states.
So we have two main arguments about why america needs to adopt the metric system.
The first is that it's easier to use and I'll talk about why that's important and the second is about how this facilitates international cooperation and why that's important.
So why is it important that the metric system is easier to use?
Which is just obviously true if you've ever had to try to remember how many feet are in a mile versus how many meters are in a kilometer.
First of all, it'll be much easier for pupils to actually learn to use measurements in their everyday lives with the metric system.
I remember learning about the american units of measurement in every grade from first to about eighth which means that it probably takes students until they're like ten to thirteen, depending on how quickly they catch on, to be able to use the system effectively and I would estimate from my own experience that most adults even quite bright people forget about half of that information.
So they remember like inches and feet but a lot of adults cannot tell you how many feet are in a mile or how many pounds are in a ton which makes the whole system pointless because people are just going with their gut and don't actually know how long or how big a unit is and it kind of breaks down for its point of use.
No one is going to forget how many meters are in a kilometer.
Once you've learned it's kilo means one thousand it's just very obvious and it's never going to be a problem again and everyone will know there's a thousand meters in a kilometer and I know how big a meter is so I know roughly how big a kilometer is and hopefully if they run also they'll pick that up.
But anyway we think that this means that people will be more accurate with their measurements and that people will have a better understanding of things that are measured around them which will make things like scientific information more accessible to the public but also just let people make more informed decisions about travel.
Oftentimes I'll talk to people who don't know how long it'll take them to walk three miles because they actually just don't know how far a mile is and they're more used to driving.
I think that because a kilometer is just a simpler unit, that people will be better able to use these measurements in their everyday lives and for the record, it takes about an hour to walk three miles.
Secondly, we'd like to talk about international cooperation.
There have been many cases when american companies had large projects have major setbacks because they had an international contractor and failed to adapt the measurements.
When you're doing business as an american company abroad you're having to convert everything from the customary units that you're american engineers use to the metric system that foreign engineers use.
My grandfather worked at a engineering company that designed oil rigs and they often had a problem with this where american engineers would receive schematics from a foreign office and look at them and say " this can't be right have them redo it " because the conversions hadn't been done properly and they were like well this is too small or this is too big based on what we think this would be in the standard system.
So you can see that there's actually a huge opportunity cost to doing this and the other side might say " look this isn't a problem all the time ". "
The united states cooperates with the rest of the world often " but it does so by using the metric system right?
The only way that america can fully cooperate in science is that we use the metric system in science and the same is true for medicine.
When we build international infrastructure projects we have to use the metric system.
When we send things into space we use the metric system.
So we may as well just adopt it in general so that we don't have to go to these extra lengths and still have setbacks because people in america just don't have a good feel for the metric system.
Like I don't really know how big a centimeter is the way I instinctively know how big an inch is.
Or maybe that's a bad example, but a kilogram I have no idea how big that is compared to a pound.
So you can see that even well educated americans are suffering because of this and for all of these reasons, we should adopt the metric system.
Thank you.