We should not legalize LGBT adoption.
Now, by this, I don't mean to say that we're opposed to having families with two gay parents or that we think that those people are unfit to be parents in any way, of course that's not true, rather we think that there needs to be a larger overhaul of adoption laws.
So, first of all, we think that there shouldn't be preference shown to married couples as opposed to single people or other couples who are trying to adopt.
Recognize that this would undermine the particular need for LGBT adoption because it wouldn't preference preference a certain lifestyle in terms of marriage.
We think that, generally speaking, the issue right now is that most jurisdictions only want to place children with married, heterosexual couples, but we think that even if you extend this to be all married couples, that there's still a problem in that you're forcing people to live that type of lifestyle in order to be able to adopt when, in fact, we think that there are many single people or unmarried couples who would also be excellent parents.
We think that rather than focus on the single injustice being done to LGBT people here, it could also be really helpful to just change the way that adoption works in general, rather to look at whether one person or two people regardless of anything else would be fit parents.
We think that this would be what's better, because the main concern with adoption is doing what's best for children.
That's why you have these misguided conservatives who are trying to keep children away from having gay or queer parents, but we think that, similarly speaking, there are lots of good parents who aren't being allowed to adopt right now and that that is not solving for these needy children either.
So we think that the largest change that needs to take place is to ensure that as many children as possible can be adopted and that in order to do that, we need to stop preferencing married people over all other groups, and we need to stop denying adoptions to people who are unmarried or people who are single.
And our second argument is that this ignores the root of the real problem here, which is bias against LGBT people.
We don't think that changing this law is going to change anyone's mind about whether or not gay and queer people deserve respect and acceptance in society.
Instead, we think it's likely to set off a firestorm of homophobia and transphobia and other bigotry in response.
We think that it would be much preferable to try to cut at the root of the issue and to changing people's minds, rather than just changing the law in this particular instance.
And you might say that when you change the law that people's minds will follow, but that certainly not always the case.
And we think that the backlash that could happen from this could lead to violence against gay people or violence against adoption agencies that are working with gay families and that those harms are something that we shouldn't just wash our hands of, but rather we should consider how we can prevent them from happening in the first place.
At the end of the day, when the government makes policies to expand civil liberties, they have to be ready for the fact that a large portion of their citizen body isn't going to be on the same page as the government or as the most progressive citizens.
We think that passing piecemeal reforms is always going to be less effective than just removing bias in society as a whole.
After all, if you didn't have these types of biases against LGBT people, then you wouldn't need to specifically pass a law giving those people a right, because no one would try to prevent them from acting on it.
Instead, we think that the government should focus its resources on educating people, and socializing people, and trying to prevent bias, rather than piecemeal solutions to problems caused by that bias.
And for all of these reasons, we don't think the most effective thing to do here is to legalize LGBT adoption.
Thank you.