We should fight urbanization.
By this we mean that countries, particularly developing countries, should introduce policies which discourage people from leaving rural areas to move to urban ones.
Three arguments for why we think this is the case.
The first is that we think that urbanization undermines traditional cultures.
Many people's religion, language, culture, and way of life are tied to the place that they live.
If they uproot themselves and move to the capital or another large city, we think that they're likely to lose that culture.
In other words, urbanization undermines the little differences that provide diversity to a country and force people to assimilate to one urban culture in order to succeed.
If you think about the philippines, there are many indigenous languages to this country.
It has a lot of diversity in that way.
But almost everybody who moves to major cities, like manila, ends up speaking tagalog, the national language.
So we see that other minority languages are going extinct, that people aren't continuing to practice their ancient customs, and that ultimately these ways of life are probably going to go away.
We think those things probably have aesthetic value and that diversity is a good in and of itself, but also we think it's unfortunate that the cultures that are being pushed on to people are often those that were put into place in urban areas by colonists, and that you see a continuing instance of more dominant cultures replacing subservient cultures, due to colonial relations.
Our second argument is about why we think the type of organization that's largely going on today is not desirable.
Most people moving to cities today are not moving to new york city or london.
They're moving to cities like karachi or jakarta.
And they're not living in the city center or the part that you see when we go visit from our nice western countries, they're moving into massive slums.
So these people move into areas that don't have a lot of social services, the quality of the housing is very poor and often unsafe.
There's no access to things like schools or public transit because these slums are often semi-illegal, because oftentimes people are discouraged from urbanizing and choose to move anyway, and therefore go into these slums.
So, we think that what ultimately this does is put people into a situation that's much worse than the one that they came from.
People think that they're going to move to the city and make it big and start a business but, ultimately, when they get there, they find out that that's impossible because the only place they can live are these slums.
So people are being lied to and ending up in terrible living conditions.
Some of the worst in the world are in cities like karachi or dhaka, where people just live in abject poverty, and there are no social services available to them.
Our last point is that we think that this leads to poor development.
So this is a big concern for developing countries, that if you have lots of urbanization, then it's very tempting to focus all of your wealth on making urban centers better, while letting rural centers lag behind.
We see that to some extent, this is a problem in india.
India, for instance, has separate minimum wages for urban and rural areas.
But what this means is that there is an increasing gap between people in urban areas, who have primary and some secondary education, and people out in the villages in what are sometimes called tribal areas, who have basically no education and no access to services.
And as the rate of urbanization increases, those rural people get left behind even more.
We tell you that ultimately this is unacceptable because even if those people in rural areas are a smaller proportion of the population, we're still talking about millions of people who are being left behind by development, who aren't reaping the benefits of society.
And we think that those people deserve an equal opportunity to benefit from society, that they're being denied if you have this organization, because all the development is going to end up concentrated in those cities.
So in order to prevent the entire world from looking like the gap between mumbai and the poorest regions of inner india, we should fight urbanization.
Thank you.