We should fight against sedentary lifestyles.
On our side we're going to explain first why there is a clear and compelling government interest in fighting this type of lifestyle and second on how this affects the country's labor force and economy in the long term.
So first let's talk about when governments can intervene and tell people how to live their lives.
We think there are a few instances.
The first would be when there is an information asymmetry that is to say when there's a lack of knowledge on the part of one party that prevents them from making a good decision.
And I think this is really true for a lot of sedentary lifestyles.
We see in america at least and I think in many other countries too that low education people tend to be much more likely to be obese and to lead sedentary lifestyles than more educated people.
One reason that this is probably true is that the more educated you are the more likely you are to have had nutritional education and to understand not only how to avoid putting on weight but how to be healthy and active.
Many people for instance don't really consider that you need to exercise for thirty minutes a day ideally eat in order to be active and they think about oh well I walk to my car and I walk to work from my car and don't think about the fact that they may have only done ten minutes of activity in their entire day.
Obviously this is really bad for their health and because it springs from a lack of knowledge and understanding of how to lead a healthy lifestyle we think that the government is completely justified in stepping in on their behalf.
Since one reason why we have a government is to act on the behalf of people who can't make well informed decisions for themselves.
The next time the state should get involved is if there are third party harms.
And I think it's clear that sedentary lifestyles do harm other people because they drive up the cost of healthcare for everyone.
One reason why health insurance in america is so expensive is because the rate of obesity has made it so that the insurance companies are paying out more and more money to pay for treatments of obesity and a lot of times this could be easily prevented if people were more active as young adults.
So we see that there is a third party harm to everyone because the cost of healthcare are born at least partly by the public as a whole.
And finally we think the state can tell people what to do when there is a compelling state interest.
And again because in most countries most civilized countries unlike america the state pays for people's health care there is a compelling state interest to keep health or health care costs low.
So national health in britain for instance has a clear interest in telling people to lead an active lifestyle in order to keep their costs down.
Our second argument aside from the fact that the state is justified in doing this is that it's really bad for your labor force to have people leading a sedentary lifestyle.
When people lead a sedentary lifestyle first of all they don't live as long.
People are more likely to die young which is obviously bad for your work force because not only are they not sometimes working as much as they could in their own lifetime but more importantly they're not around for their children and therefore it's going to be harder for their children to get a good education and get good advice and grow up to be healthy and productive members of society.
But aside from that when you think about the work force people who are ill have less energy.
People who are sedentary have less energy.
There are less able to work long periods of time.
There are many jobs that they can't do because they're not able to do physical activity.
So we see that there are real costs in terms of lost labor when you have a sedentary work force.
Why is this really bad?
Well many developing countries have increasing rates of obesity that would indicate that more people are being sedentary and it's harder for them to develop if they're getting fewer man hours that up there people every year.
Since a sedentary lifestyle limits the amount of labor that people can do limits those man hours in other words we think that it's something that you need to be very concerned about as a developing country if you want to increase standards of living in the future.
For all these reasons we should fight against the sedentary lifestyle.
Thank you.