We should cancel the affordable care act.
We are arguing that we should repeal the affordable care act commonly known as obamacare in the united states and go back to what we had before where every state set up their own insurance regulations.
Some states like massachusetts would have a law similar to obamacare, ironically called romneycare in that case, other states like north carolina or virginia would be free to have more of a free market system in place.
Under obamacare people are required to purchase insurance and insurance companies are required to offer every consumer insurance through a series of what are called insurance exchanges.
In many states however there's only one insurance company available, in most cases a company called blue cross blue shield, and people don't have very much choice as was originally envisioned by lawmakers back in two thousand eight and nine.
With this in mind we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that obamacare is unfair to healthy young people.
The idea behind obamacare is that you can drive down insurance costs for ill people and elderly people by forcing healthy young people who don't really need health insurance to buy in.
So basically the way the system works is prices are subsidized for older people and much higher than they ought to be for younger people.
If you think about it as an insurance company, basically you're betting on whether or not your client is going to become ill.
A twenty five year old with no history of illness is very unlikely to develop something this expensive to treat.
Maybe they'll break a leg but ultimately it's unlikely that they'll cost your company very much money so you can give them a very cheap rate.
On the other hand, a sixty five year old is almost certain to have some sort of illnesses and injuries over the course of what remains in their life so you should be able to offer them a much higher premium in order to offset that risk.
Obamacare sought to level this out by forcing everyone to purchase insurance.
But ultimately this means that young people are going bankrupt in order to subsidize health care for older people since older people are one, generally wealthier than younger people and two, often haven't tried to live very healthy lifestyles.
We think it's unfair to foist the cost of their health care onto young people who haven't done anything wrong.
Our second argument is about how obamacare has harmed choice for patients.
When obamacare was put into place people were told that they would be able to pick their doctor.
But this was quickly proven untrue for a few reasons.
First of all, we've seen that as insurance companies have gained more and more clients they also have more bargaining power relative to hospitals.
Insurance companies now tell their clients they have to go to certain doctors or certain hospitals because they're called in network and out of network.
So many people had to stop seeing doctors they've been seeing their whole life.
They also don't have a choice about if they want to do things like see a specialist.
Ultimately it's up to an insurance company whether they'll be permitted to do this.
So we think that individuals have seen their freedom to control their own health care greatly curtailed by the obamacare system and therefore that we should cancel the act so that individuals have more control over their own health.
Our third argument is that insurance companies are abusing obamacare for their own benefit at the expense of taxpayers.
Consider that right now the insurance companies are guaranteed millions of customers and they don't have to do any work to get them.
People are fined if they don't buy insurance, so rather than have to attract customers insurance companies can just sit around and do nothing.
In particular, because it's expensive to offer health insurance, many states only have one provider available.
So they basically have a monopoly.
In this way blue cross has been able to take advantage of the american people by driving up costs while providing lower and lower quality of service because there's effectively no competition.
Obamacare was touted as an alternative to the private or public system that we see in canada that would allow the market to look create competition so that companies would have to compete with one another and offer better services but the opposite has actually happened.
So for all of these reasons we should cancel the affordable care act.
Thank you.