We should abolish capital punishment.
So we're going to argue that countries should abolish the death penalty in every instance if they haven't already done so.
Many countries have already abolished the death penalty as have many US states but we think that its use is unacceptable in every jurisdiction and that it should be banned in every place.
We have two main arguments for our side this evening.
The first is about the risk of killing innocents.
In recent years we have seen many convictions overturned by the new application of different types of forensic evidence.
For instance in the late nineties and early two thousands many convictions were overturned by the new application of DNA evidence and DNA evidence continues to improve every year and new forensic techniques are being developed all the time.
The take away from this is that we realize that the criminal justice system is imperfect and that new technology will probably acquit many people in the future who were convicted in good faith right now.
The problem with the death penalty is that if someone is wrongfully convicted and sentenced to it after they've been executed there's nothing that we can do for that person.
There's no way to undo this injustice the way that there is if someone is only imprisoned.
So we think that ultimately the risk of someone being wrongfully convicted and it's a certainty that that applies to some people the risk of someone being wrongfully convicted and then executed is too great for us to continue to use the death penalty.
Ultimately it's certain that some innocent people will be killed and at that point the state is acting on a moral level no better than the people who are committing murders in the first place.
We think that this is unacceptable that it undermines the state's legitimacy and that it's an abuse of power which leads nicely into our next argument about how this is an abuse of the state's power.
There is a huge imbalance in power between citizens and the state.
The state has a monopoly on violence which gives them much more power than any citizen in terms of controlling our well being and physical status.
We think that whenever there is a huge imbalance of power between two parties the party which is more powerful has an obligation to use their power responsibly and with reserve because the other party can't react so in other words when the state interacts with individuals it needs to use its power sparingly because there's such a difference in power between the state apparatus and an individual.
Ultimately we think that using the death penalty is an abuse of the state power because there's no way for people to appeal there's no way for this to be undone if it's used in error ultimately we don't think it's an acceptable use of this huge imbalance of power between state and individual.
But what's more I think society recognizes that this is an abuse of government power.
Consider that a few hundred years ago almost every crime could be punished with the death penalty.
In britain in the eighteenth century if you stole something worth ten cents you could be hung for it.
So we see that over time there's been a reduction in the scope of the death penalty.
What this indicates I think is that people recognize that the death penalty is an unfair punishment.
They're just slow to change the way that it's applied.
For instance in the united states it used to be even thirty years ago that the death penalty was used in instances of rape but now it's limited to first degree murder.
We've seen the scope of things considered heinous enough to deserve the death penalty grow smaller and smaller I think as people recognize just how heinous the death penalty is.
We would complete and take this to its logical conclusion by abolishing the death penalty in every instance rather than using it arbitrarily for some crimes and not others.
For all these reasons we should abolish capital punishment.
.
Thank you