We should abandon democracy.
Now by this I don't mean that we should set up some king to tell everyone what to do but that we should have a government in which certain experts and other political figures are outside of the power of the people in order to ensure that poor decisions aren't made by the democratic body.
We think that this might take the form of a party that runs parallel to the nation's government for instance such as the one that we see in china today or the soviet union historically which can guide the country towards prosperity and economic growth even if people make poor decisions in the short term which they often do.
Our first argument is that there is an urgent need to combat climate change and that the globe's populace are unwilling to do so.
Recognize that most people alive right now will never face the biggest harms of climate change.
If you're forty something today by the time major climate change kicks in you you will have been dead for sometime.
Even young people right now are unlikely to see the full effects.
However real people are going to suffer, future people are going to suffer because of climate change.
Entire countries like bangladesh are going to be inundated with water and hundreds of millions even billions of refugees will be split across the globe if something isn't done immediately.
It's clear that radical action is needed and it's clear that democratic countries are unwilling to accept any change to their quality of life in order to fight global climate change, even though that's exactly what's needed.
The current western standard of living is unsustainable without massive changes in technology and government policy and that just isn't happening in the current status quo because of democracy.
People vote based on their belly and their wallet, not what's good for the future of the globe and that's why we need technocrats to make these decisions for us.
There needs to be some body that isn't accountable to the lowest common denominator who can say we must cut carbon emissions so we're going to spend public money on nuclear reactors and we're okay with cutting off people's electricity sometimes or making it harder to buy a car if that means that there's going to be less climate change in the long term.
Ultimately saving millions of lives is worth it even if it means taking away some political freedom in the short term and we think that climate change uniquely creates the impetus to do this as soon as possible especially in the most powerful countries like the US.
We think it's no coincidence that china is building thousands of nuclear reactors at a time when the US hasn't built any in forty years and it's because their government can act in the greater good even when the citizen body doesn't want them to.
And our second argument is that democracies are often worse for people's freedom then a benign dictatorship and remember that what I'm proposing is a parallel undemocratic system.
We're fine with letting people have some voice but we think that ultimately technocrats should have a lot of say.
We think that for instance the rise of fascism in the twentieth century shows the weaknesses of democracy.
Democracies only protect people's rights inasmuch as that's in the interests of fifty one percent of the people.
If fifty one percent of your people want to vote in fascists who will get rid of all of the jews then that's what's going to happen and people say oh that'll never happen again but I think it's obvious from the election of populists around the globe that democracies are easily manipulated and that people will vote for racist or bigoted governments.
In the past we've seen democracies with great democratic approval invade other countries and cause millions of deaths like the US did by invading iraq.
Moreover we think it's quite likely that democracies are more prone to bias such as racism than these technocrats will be presuming that we pick good technocrats to begin with.
Moreover because racism is ultimately harmful to a country's economy and culture these technocrats have an incentive not to be racist whereas the public is just driven by whatever whims they happen to have.
So because we can better fight climate change which is an existential threat and because it will be less racist we would prefer some sort of philosopher kinddom to democracy.
Thank you.