We should increase immigration to the united states.
So by this we mean that the US should increase the quota for immigrants.
Right now there is an overall quota of about six hundred thousand people per year who are allowed to immigrate to the US.
We think that that quota should be vastly increased to as many as two and a half million people, much much higher than it is today.
Secondly, through out our individual country quotas, which means that it's much easier to come to this country from bhutan than it is from china, because the quota is the same for every country.
We think those quotas should be abolished completely.
If we have two million people who want to come here from india we say let them.
So three reasons why the US should do this.
First, we tell you that immigration leads to economic growth.
It's simple math that when you bring people to this country and have them get to work, that your overall domestic product increases because you have more people producing.
But on top of that we tell you that the kind of people who are likely to give up their life in their home country and come to america are the sort of go getters who lead to economic growth.
There's a reason that so many businesses in america are founded by immigrants or by their children.
We tell you that ultimately these are people with drive and initiative who are very likely to take risks to start businesses, to work harder, to put in extra hours.
That ultimately these are the kind of people that we want in our country: hardworking people who will ultimately grow the economy by having a greater output of their work than what we would have otherwise.
We think it's silly to cap the amount of people who are allowed to come here when it means that we cap our own economic growth.
Our second argument is about the humanitarian reasons, why the US should do this.
Right now there are hundreds of thousands of syrians who need a place to live and the united states is a mostly empty country.
We tell you that it is inexcusable for america, which has bountiful land and enough money to settle these people, not to let them come here to live in safety.
We think that it's inexcusable to let people die around the world in wars partially caused by american intervention and then not let them move to this country.
In particular, for places like vietnam and iraq that have been devastated by US intervention, we think that we owe it to those people to let them start a new life here because we damaged their ability to carry out their old life there.
But aside from this, at the point where people have a right to live in freedom and safety, and at the point in which the US is mostly empty, particularly much of the west, we think that we should be bringing these people in, helping them get established, and that ultimately this would be beneficial for everyone.
Our third and final argument, and I think that this is critical for the debate, is that immigration is part of what makes america, america.
Almost everyone here has ancestors who immigrated voluntarily.
We think that in the past the US has been an international center of economic growth and innovation because of the strong tradition of immigration.
I told you about why immigrants are likely to work harder than other people because they're go getters by their very nature, but on top of that every new wave of immigration to the united states re-entrenches that culture of innovation.
If you think about who goes to elite universities in america today, many people would say there's lots of asian people, but that's driven by the fact that the most recent waves of immigration have largely been asian.
A hundred years ago, many people were resentful that there were so many jews in american universities, but that was partly driven by the fact that there was a large wave of jewish immigration.
We tell you that ultimately new waves of immigration will ensure that we have more people pushing their children to succeed in the way that immigrant families tend to do.
That their children will go to harvard, yale, stanford, wherever, and ultimately continue to ensure that the US is a center of innovation.
But aside from that immigrants also bring a unique perspective to the united states, a global perspective.
The idea that we should care about what happens around the world, that we shouldn't just isolate ourselves and let dictators or other horrible things go on unchallenged.
So ultimately we think that immigrants bring a huge amount to the united states that makes us who we are as a country.
For these reasons we think that we should increase immigration to the united states.
Thank you.