We should not introduce school vouchers.
So on our side of this debate, we're going to argue that in places that are considering this kind of program, they shouldn't introduce it, and also that in places where this already exists, it should be abolished.
We have a few arguments for our side.
The first is that this is a way to introduce segregation.
For the last forty or so years in the united states, courts and state governments have forced children of different races to go to school together in an effort to prevent black children from being given a lower quality of education.
What happens when you introduce school vouchers is that white parents now have a way to opt their children out of going to school with black students.
So this re-entrenches existing systems of racism.
And the other side might say that black parents can also take advantage of this, but it's much more likely that wealthy, well-educated parents will take advantage of the school vouchers than less well-educated, less wealthy parents, who might not be able to inform themselves about the issue.
And this isn't just an american problem either.
If you think about other communities that are considered outsiders, like turkish people in germany, it's likely that they'll be less able to take advantage of these programs than native germans, so you'll see that same kind of self-segregation there.
And ultimately, when children aren't socializing with people from other communities, they're more likely to internalize racist beliefs about those communities.
So whether that be islamophobia in germany or racism against black people in america, we think that segregation is ultimately going to be harmful, both for children of the minority and the majority community, as people generally become more racist.
We think that the other side needs to explain to you why letting people self-select out of a more diverse community is ever going to be a good thing.
Our next argument is about why this starves public schools.
Public schools work relatively well, basically, because they pool together enough students that the state can afford to provide certain amenities.
What happens in the other's team's world?
Basically, you have lots of the students who are relatively cheap to educate.
High-performing, self-motivated students who want to learn are going to be taken out of public schools and sent to charter schools while their parents.
Meanwhile, you're going to see students who have a more difficult time learning: maybe learning disabilities, students who are autistic, students who don't want to be there, who cause problems in the public schools.
And because their funding is based on the number of students they have, they now are able to devote fewer resources to these students because the money that they would have gotten for those well-behaved students, that would have been rediverted, is now simply not there.
So, in this way, they starve these schools of resources.
They make it so that these public schools can't afford to hire special needs teachers, can't afford to provide certain opportunities for learning-disabled students.
And ultimately, this does huge harms to those students who lose out and also to the schools themselves as the teachers will become even more overworked and will be even more underpaid for the work that they are doing, as the schools lose their budget.
But another problem with the starving of public schools is that they make it likely that you get a negative feedback loop.
Parents who are happy with public schools now will probably be less happy as their neighbors' children opt out, and the school gets worse and worse, which means more and more of these well-educated, wealthy, involved parents will choose to opt out, until the only students left are the students whose parents don't know how or don't care about getting them into a better school, and those students will be very underserved through no fault of their own.
We need to preserve the system we have now where some people are subsidizing other people to create better schools, using the public school model rather than these opt-out, all-white private schools.
For all of these reasons, we should not introduce school vouchers.
Thank you.