Tattoos should be banned.
So tattooing is a practice of injecting ink into the skin in order to change its color.
I believe it comes from polynesia but now it's popular throughout the western world with men and women.
We have a few reasons why we think that this should be banned.
The first is about the health risks that tattoos pose.
While there are many tattoo parlors that are clean and safe and well run, many others are not.
You always run the risk when you're putting a needle in your skin of spreading diseases or potentially causing damage to your body.
We think that because some tattoo parlors are not clean or not regulated properly people sometimes contract blood-borne illnesses or other illnesses that they could have avoided if they weren't getting a tattoo in the first place.
This is really the only time when a non-medical person is going to be putting something into your body in this way and we think that because tattoo artists don't have that kind of medical training that they're probably not able to accurately tell when a tattoo poses a health risk to someone.
What's more some people have very bad reactions to tattoos based on the ink that's used or based on chemicals in the tattoo itself and we think that ultimately, we should try to avert those risks as well by not allowing people to get a tattoo.
Now the other side might say those are fairly marginal risks but there's effectively no benefits to tattoos.
They're just an aesthetic choice.
So ultimately we think that because there's no benefit, any amount of harm is going to tip the scale in favor of banning them.
We will be okay with making an exception for people from countries like samoa where this is an important part of their religion and culture but for everyone else we think that there's really no reason why people need tattoos and since they pose some risks we would be better off getting rid of them.
Our second argument is that people are poor decision makers and tattoos are permanent.
The only way to remove a tattoo is with very expensive laser procedures which aren't accessible to many people and which don't always have good results.
So with that in mind, consider that many people get tattoos when they're eighteen, nineteen years old and don't think about how they're going to feel about it or how it's going to look when they're sixty seven.
Ultimately, we think people are really bad at making decisions about the long term especially young people who are the most likely to get tattoos.
Because people can't really conceptualize what it will be like to be a radically different person in the distant future, we don't think that we should let people make unalterable decisions about their future in the present.
In other words, the state should intervene in order to protect me in the future from myself right now in the same way that they do for things like smoking.
There's no immediate harm to smoking or drinking to excess or taking drugs but there's a huge potential harm to the future when your health is much worse as a result of these things.
So there are laws regulating them and those should apply to tattoos as well for the same reasons.
But since you can't get a tattoo in moderation, we think that they should be banned period.
And our third and final point is about the connection between tattoos and crime.
Many organized crime groups use tattoos as a way to identify members and to encourage people to commit for life to their group.
Once people have a tattoo that they can't remove on their body it's much harder for them to leave this group because ultimately, if they do leave they'll still be identified as part of that group by other people.
So we think that even if people clean up their act, they're ultimately less employable if they have gang tattoos or it might make it more difficult for them to succeed in life in other ways.
So for all of these reasons, tattoos should be banned.
Thank you.