We should ban naturopathy.
We have two main arguments for our side today.
The first is about the reasons why the government needs to intervene to prevent people from seeing naturopaths or purchasing naturopathic drugs, and the second is about the impact that this has on public health.
So we think that our biggest concern about letting people practice naturopathy or buy these alternative medicines is that they don't do anything.
We'll get back to the practical effects of that in just a minute, but we just like to point out that ordinary people can't be expected to be informed about medical effectiveness.
If joe q public goes to a store and sees that something is labeled as a treatment for an illness that he has then he should be able to trust that label.
Ultimately it is an undue burden on people to force them to deeply research the medicines that they take rather than let them rely on expert testimony or rely on the information that they're given in a fact box on the medicine.
And ultimately these naturopathic drugs simply don't work.
If they did anything then they wouldn't be alternative medicine they would be mainstream medicine and I could hear my old college roommate saying that they work for her but at the end of the day the placebo effect is not enough to sell a drug.
So ultimately we think it's clear that the state should get involved when there is an asymmetry of information.
Why?
Well, the government is the only body that acts on behalf of the public.
Every other body has its own interests, even charitable bodies, and more over only the government has regulatory power.
So we think that it's essential that the government get involved in order to protect people when we can't assume that they have access to good information.
This is why we put for instance the amount of alcohol on a beer on the side of a can.
It's not because budweiser or michelob or whoever wants to put this information on the can, it's because the government thinks people need this information.
But whereas is people can kind of gauge what four percent alcohol by volume means they have no idea of what some weird herb that he'd never heard of before ultimately does.
So we think that the state should intervene and just stop people from being misled about the efficacy of these drugs and ultimately if there is some naturopath out there who really does have good effects from this he or she will probably find these drugs without them being sold alongside legitimate medicines in drugstores so we're not really hurting anyone when we implement this policy.
Indeed we think that we can only help people by ensuring that they're only given access to drugs that have been proven to be effective.
Which leads nicely into my second argument about public health.
Ultimately, what medicines one chooses to take is not simply a matter of personal preference.
If it were then perhaps we could justify letting people buy grass clippings and call them medicine but ultimately infectious diseases in particular pose a huge threat to others.
Many people are immunocompromised and face much greater risks from getting sick than ordinary people.
Moreover the very young and the very elderly can face very real consequences from diseases like the flu or the common cold which ought be treated rather than just let people huff some weird mossy air and then think that they've treated themselves.
At the end of the day, public health concerns are clearly in the interest of the state.
Because the government ultimately in most countries is responsible for paying for people's health, it's obvious that in the same way that we encourage people to get preventive care we ought encourage them to seek effective care.
And even in countries like the united states that have private health care, the burden that people put on emergency rooms when they show up with bronchitis and pneumonia after not taking any medicine for three weeks is still something that the public has to deal with.
Moreover, the risk to immunocompromised people is simply unacceptable because they haven't done anything wrong and they're being put at risk.
For all these reasons, we should ban naturopathy.
Thank you.