High school should be mandatory.
We're going to tell you why high school, or secondary school for those following from outside the states, should be required for everyone in your country.
Our first argument is that there is basic knowledge conveyed in secondary school that everyone needs to have to be a functional member of society.
As one example, no one has access to civics classes before their secondary education or maybe they do in some countries, but very few, because people when they're eleven or twelve, before they start their secondary education, can't really appreciate things like understanding how their country's system of government works and why it works the way it does, and that's an important part of being an informed citizen.
We think that keeping students up to the point when they're able to think like an adult, in their mid-to-late teens, is important so that we can teach them things that adults need to know, such as how their country operates and why it is that way, so that we can teach them uncomfortable parts of your country's history so that they're able to vote in a more informed fashion.
If, for instance, you didn't have mandatory secondary school in america, many people would probably leave their education and never learn about the extermination of the native americans, because it's seean as something inappropriate or that younger students aren't able to learn about until they reach secondary school.
So you would have lots of people voting who lack even the most basic amount of historical or civic knowledge.
And I want you to think about what the average voter in your country is like, and you might not have the highest opinion of their level of information that they use to make decisions when they vote, imagine if that person couldn't name six of your heads of states in your country's history or tell you what the type of parliament your country has is.
Like there is a basic level of knowledge you only get in secondary school, and we think everyone needs to have that before they can vote.
Our second argument, setting aside this thing about citizens, is to turn to how this affects people as laborers.
Almost every job requires skills that you don't learn until secondary school.
Even very low-skilled jobs, like being a cashier, still require that you're able to do basic algebra, and that you're able to make change, and that you're able to fill in a form and use a computer, and these are all things that a lot of people don't learn until early secondary school or, at the very least, that they get much better at in secondary school.
So we think that if you have people leaving the education system before they've been to secondary school, it will be very hard for them to get any sort of job.
This has two harms: one, people are harming themselves for the rest of their lives because they don't get an education, and two, they're hurting your entire country because they're not contributing to the economy.
You might say, " oh, well, that should be up to individuals, " but if people don't contribute to the economy, that limits your country's development, that limits your country's future potential, and we think that that is a concern for the state and for the community as a whole.
And our final argument is that, ultimately, people aren't able to make good decisions at the age when they would be quitting secondary school.
There's a reason why we don't let fifteen and sixteen-year-olds vote.
There's a reason why most impactful decisions require a parent's consent.
No one is making a good choice if they leave secondary school, it's just going to prevent them from getting any sort of job in the future.
So this isn't rational.
So anyone who is making this decision is making the wrong decision, and they're making it because they're at an age when they think that they know better than other people and that they're going to go make lots of money as an athlete, or a musician, or whatever silly thing sixteen-year-olds are trying to do.
So we need to protect people from making bad decisions when they're at this very impressionable age.
And I think that in the same way that we protect people from making bad decisions about smoking or driving when they're underage, we need to protect them from dropping out of school.
Thank you.