The right of asylum is not absolute.
So by the right of asylum we mean the right of refugees to be taken in by a country to be given legal protections and cared for and aided by that country indefinitely until they're eventually able to return home.
So what we mean by not absolute is we think that it's perfectly legitimate for countries to set time limits on how long they're willing to keep refugees in their country and also for them to require that you go to the nearest safe soil when you seek refuge.
For instance, that people go to the nearest safe country.
So turkey from syria, rather than germany from syria.
Obviously we're okay with groups like the EU moving people around internally within the union in order to meet their own needs, but we do think that people should be going to the first country that they can arrive at that's safe, rather than going to a more economically developed country, like people who are trying to get to germany from eastern europe.
With this in mind we have two main arguments for you.
The first is about the nature of this right.
Recognize that the right to asylum is not a natural right that people have.
We can see that this is true because if you imagine a state of nature obviously there would be no right to asylum because there would be no states.
We can see therefore that the right to asylum is tied up in the existence and operations of governments.
We think therefore that this must be a right by convention.
What I mean by that is that people have come together and agreed, in this case explicitly through international agreements, that asylum seekers deserve certain privileges and considerations.
In other words this right is limited by the convention.
It's not something that's given to you by god or that you're born with, like human dignity.
So we tell you therefore that this right relies on the good will of host countries.
Therefore we need to preserve public support in order to maintain this right.
If you give people who are asylum seekers right now too generous a treatment and it creates a backlash among the public, then you jeopardize all future asylum seekers because people won't want to take them because they resent the ones they have right now.
But on top of that we tell you that people will vote to remove this right and no one will benefit from it in the future if it is taken advantage of too much.
So our second argument related to that is that the burden on developed nations is too high from asylum seekers right now.
Realize that people who come as refugees come into a country and they take resources away without contributing anything.
These people don't work, maybe eventually they'll be given work permits, but initially the idea is that they're temporary and they probably live in things like displaced people's camps, so they don't work and they cost lots and lots of money.
Now obviously we want to put a high value on people's lives and take care of them when we can, but this is a tremendous expense for the public.
We think that because money is fungible, that ultimately this is money that isn't going to spending on citizens.
You are directly having a trade off with things like healthcare and education, when you spend money on refugees.
We think therefore that there are harms, first of all, to legitimate asylum seekers when people come in who could've stayed somewhere else.
Because there's a trade off in funding and also harms to citizens who are needy because there's a trade off in funding.
We think that in particular many people are gaming the system to get access to wealthier countries.
There are lots of people fleeing syria who could have gone to turkey or lebanon or jordan, but who chose instead to go to germany or who have tried to come to other countries as well.
So these people are effectively just trying to get the most money they can for themselves out of the system rather than just seeking to be in a safe place which is what asylum and refugee status was ultimately established for.
So as a result of this burden on taxpayers, this trade off with legitimate refugees and this sort of self seeking entity, we think that ultimately it's acceptable to limit the right of asylum.
So for these two reasons, because of the burden on developed nations and because the right is by convention, we think that this right to asylum is not absolute.
Thank you.