We should not abolish the american jobs act.
So we think that the world would be better if the american jobs act were implemented.
Our first argument is that the american jobs act would ultimately protect many jobs.
So, tim tells you in his speech that unemployment is relatively low in twenty seventeen and that ultimately, people don't need the government's help getting jobs.
But many people who would be hired because of the provisions of the american jobs act, for instance, the payroll tax reduction, which made it much cheaper to employ people, would lose their jobs if the act were revoked.
If you're an employer and you hire someone because of a government subsidy that makes it cheaper to employ them, then when that subsidy goes away, you can no longer afford to have that person on board.
So, while it may be true that unemployment is relatively low, and I would even contest that, the government has changed several times how unemployment is counted in order to make their numbers look better, but even if unemployment is very low, ultimately many more people will be unemployed without these job-protecting measures from the american jobs act.
Ultimately, the only thing the government do can do to encourage employment is to change the incentives of employers.
So if you get rid of things like subsidies and payroll tax reductions, ultimately you change the incentives, and employers will hire fewer people.
Our second point is that this ultimately harms education and therefore the future of the economy.
Despite the name, a huge part of the americans jobs act has to do with education.
The bill includes many provisions to protect teacher pay and to ensure that teachers are not laid off and also has a lot of funding to modernize older schools.
So, ultimately, if you get rid of the american jobs act, what are you looking at?
Teachers will be laid off, in comparison to the world in which the act continues, which will mean larger classroom sizes, fewer resources for students, and ultimately worse education in the united states, and school modernization programs that have already begun will not have funding to continue.
So ultimately, students will be going to school in schools that have not been appropriately modernized and which have been partially but not completely renovated, which may even be worse than what they had before when, at least, the school hadn't been undergoing a process of renovation that was never completed.
So ultimately, this poses a huge risk to the future of the economy because if children are going to inferior schools and not getting a good education, then ultimately we will have worse workers.
So, if you care about ultimately paying off the national debt, which I think is the main concern about the american jobs act, then you need the US to have long-term economic growth, and education is critical to that.
So while it may be true that there are other ways we could provide for education, this is the one we have right now.
So ultimately, the harms to education more than outweigh the harms of the act itself.
And our final point is about the infrastructure spending on the bill.
Similar to the last point, despite the name, much of the american jobs act actually has to do with infrastructure spending.
The united states hasn't spent an enormous amount of money on infrastructure since the early twentieth century.
As a result, many bridges, railroads and highways have not been properly maintained and need to be completely redone or rebuilt.
But there's no funding to do this.
The american jobs act included billions of dollars that we could spend on infrastructure, such as rebuilding bridges and railroads.
Without this act, there's no counterplan that would encourage that same spending to go on.
So ultimately, we need the american jobs act, not just for what it does for jobs and education, but also to promote infrastructure spending so that in the future, the american economy can thrive with strong infrastructure.
So for all of these reasons, we should not abolish the american jobs act.
Thank you.