We should not abandon television.
I think that what sam really fails to do in his last speech is prove any unique harm of television.
So I'm going to first explain why the laziness caused by television is non-unique and then respond to his argument about niches, also by proving that this is non-unique.
I don't think you can go after television and say we should ban this one type of media when all of the harms sam identifies are common to other types of media as well.
So, first, sam says that television makes people lazy, that they just want to sit on the couch and not do anything.
But I don't think that television uniquely causes this.
If people are tired after a long day at work, maybe that means that people work too much.
If people feel too exhausted to participate in community organizations, maybe it's because they don't have enough leisure time, because americans actually work more today than we did fifty years ago.
I'd also like to point out that this isn't unique versus other types of screen time.
I don't actually watch TV.
Like very seldom do I sit down on the couch and watch TV, but I spend way too much time after work every day staring at my phone or my laptop.
It's just a different screen.
My behavior physically isn't any different, right?
I'm still not out and playing a sport or at the community club with my peers, I am at home being antisocial, looking at a screen.
I don't see why television, the screen of the eighties, is so much worse than the screen of the twenty tens.
At the end of the day, it's probably true that screen time is bad for people, but banning television isn't going to solve this problem, since sam himself admits that people will just turn to other types of screen in response.
So there's no actual connection between banning television and solving any of the problems that sam identifies.
But even aside from that, I'd like to point out that reading has many of the same problems, right?
If you read, you sit in a chair and you don't move around, and you don't talk to other people, and you're not being social, but almost everyone agrees reading is a good thing.
So I think maybe the issue here is the quality of what people are consuming but at that point, given there are plenty of garbage books and that there are some intellectually stimulating television shows, I think it's arbitrary to go after television, even if most television is objectively garbage.
But our second point is about niches.
Sam says that television kind of silos people into different groups and that this is bad.
Books are much more segmented than TV.
There are many more books published every year than TV shows made.
There's more diversity of genre.
There's hundreds of years of books for people to read from all different countries, whereas most TV is made in a few countries and has only been around for fifty or so years.
So I think that any problem you want to identify with people being segmented based on their TV preferences is much worse with other types of media that are less expensive to produce and that have been around longer.
So this isn't a reason to ban TV either, it's an argument against media as a whole and not a very compelling one.
What's the harm in letting people consume different types of media?
I'm unconvinced that this is why people join certain political groups.
Surely, there are other influences too.
This seems more about entertainment, and I'm not sure that any one type of entertainment is inherently worse than any other, as long as no one's being harmed in its production.
But aside from that, I think the internet has done more to silo our communities and our society than television.
Before the internet, there were relatively few media sources available, so everyone had to agree on certain common facts.
Yes, it's true that fox news has challenged that to an extent in the US, but the fact remains that there's much less radicalism on television than the internet.
Fox news is still much more mainstream than a lot of right-wing websites, for instance.
So I don't see how you actually get less segmentation by banning TV, when most people get their news online anyway from even more radical sources.
For all these reasons, we should not abandon television.
Thank you.