Use of the AI should be abandoned.
And I hope that the computer debater won't be offended here.
It's nothing personal.
I promise.
That said, we see two main reasons why the use of AI should be abandoned.
The first is that we think that the long term risks are generally going to outweigh the short term benefits, and the second is about the trade off in research and development funds.
So to focus on the long term risks and the short term benefits of artificial intelligence.
It's certainly true that increasing use of artificial intelligence in manufacturing and other industries has increased global economic products.
It would be very difficult to produce the amount of automobiles we do right now for instance without automated factories.
However these benefits largely accrue in the short term and we think that ultimately a few harms are going to outweigh them: the first is the massive destruction of the economy.
We've already seen many people laid off because automation has taken away their jobs.
But this is fundamentally different than other technologies.
No one would advocate for getting rid of cars just to keep horses employed, but we think that it's quite likely that in the future people will be largely unnecessary for most industries if AI keeps improving at a quick rate.
For instance, we think that AI is very soon going to completely replace trucking, manufacturing jobs, and some of the other most common professions in the united states, and leave tens of millions of people unemployed.
Right now the american welfare system does not have a way to cope with tens of millions of people suddenly becoming unemployed.
Now, an optimist would say that other jobs will come along to let these people do work.
But we think it's likely that soon AI will be so good that it can design new AI to do its job even better and replace even more human workers.
And what's more, that because payroll tends to be the most expensive part of running a business, that corporations will do everything they can to lay off as many people as possible and not offer them new jobs.
So we think that this is going to be fundamentally different than previous technologies that temporarily destructed the labor market, and that this could very well prevent humans from participating in the labor market at all in the long to medium term.
We could be the first generation that sees unemployment in western countries rise over fifty percent, and it will be because of automation.
But moreover, not to sound like a conspiracy theorist, that no one knows just how powerful AI is going to get.
What happens when people outsource major policy decisions to AI, because it's seen as neutral?
Which is something they're already discussing in the US as a solution to gerrymandering.
To have an artificial intelligence design our voting districts.
We think that ultimately an AI could make decisions that aren't the best for people and everyone will go along with them because they're seen as neutral or because a few people in power want to go along with it.
So we think that there's a risk to great dependence on AI undermining our society in many ways.
And our second argument is that this is a poor use of r and d funds.
To be frank it just seems to me that research and development should be focused on alleviating the most serious harms and artificial intelligence doesn't really play into that.
Right now there are eight hundred million people in food insecurity around the globe and hundreds of millions who lack access to clean water.
Coming up with more effective ways to distribute food and more effective ways to ensure that people have access to the resources that they need seems like a much better use of r and d funds than making a ford slightly cheaper and more efficient to produce.
And what's more, we also think that this trades off with medical funding which could save people's lives.
Now some might say that artificial intelligence will increase economic growth and that a rising tide lifts all boats, but as long as millions of people are dying from easily preventable diseases like diabetes, that don't have a cure yet, we think that that money would always be better spent on something like a cure for diabetes than it is on these machines.
For all these reasons, the use of AI should be abandoned.
Thank you.