We should not increase internet censorship.
We have a few arguments for our case this evening.
The first is that this would just drive certain content underground whereas, right now, it's easier to monitor.
So, one example of this type of speech might be holocaust denial.
In some countries, like germany, holocaust denial is already illegal, but it still takes place pretty commonly online.
Most of these are going to be on sites hosted in the US or other countries where holocaust denial is legal, but we think, then, if germany, for instance, tried to crack down more on holocaust denial online, it wouldn't get rid of the ideas that they're trying to get rid of.
Instead, it would just drive them into a place where they're harder to monitor.
Right now, if there's an anti-semitic terror attack, people from interpol or other law enforcement groups can go onto these websites and try to gather information about the people who might have committed them.
If you drive these people underground, then it will be much harder to find them and harder to monitor their activity.
So we think that an unintended consequence of having greater internet censorship would mean that it would actually be harder to keep an eye on the people that we need to keep an eye on.
So even if more of their speech is clearly available, we think it's better to have it out in the open where we can monitor it rather than going on in code or in some part of the internet where it's harder to find.
The other team might say that that would also make it harder for young people to find it, who are impressionable, but we think that young people are going to find dangerous ideas no matter what we do and that it's better to keep a close track of things than to hide from them.
Our second argument is just about freedom of speech.
Effectively, we think that people have a right to say antisocial, hateful, and even harmful things.
Ultimately, any limitation on what speech is allowed and what isn't is always going to be reactive not proactive.
In other words, we ban certain types of speech because people do bad actions.
This means that we're always going to be chasing after the perfect limitation of free speech in order to prevent bad actions in the future, but will never reach it.
Far better to just say that essentially all speech is allowed unless it's actively inciting violence, and then only crack down on that very limited scope, rather than try to chase down every type of unsavory discussion on the internet, which is known for just being an unsavory place in general.
Ultimately, we think it's better to defer to more free speech than less, because we're likely to cut off some legitimate speech if we try to cut off all illegitimate speech.
And our last point is that we think there's always going to be an arbitrary standard about what is and isn't allowed.
For instance, let's imagine that the european union banned denying that the armenian genocide happened and used censorship to shut down websites in the EU that claim that the armenian genocide didn't happen.
Meanwhile, it's quite likely that websites that deny colonial atrocities committed by britain or france would still be online because britain and france are powerful EU members, I guess britain may leave but for the time being anyway, whereas turkey is not an EU member.
So it's likely to be arbitrary what is seen as too bad to do online and what is not based on the interest of whoever makes the laws.
We think that this is fundamentally unfair.
Ultimately, whoever makes the law can use the censorship to control access to information to make themselves look better.
We think that this is likely to control narratives in a really harmful way and that while most governments might use this for good, some will certainly use it to cover up their crimes, to cover up their misdeeds, to make themselves look better to their people.
So, ultimately, we think it's likely that if you increase censorship, you will drive these ideas underground where they're harder to monitor, you will unfairly limit free speech, and you will enforce arbitrary standards.
For all these reasons, don't increase internet censorship.
Thank you.