We should abolish electronic voting.
So by this we mean that in elections the voting or the ballot should be done in a physical form rather than with electronic voting machines.
That might mean having people write on a paper ballot or something similar as opposed to having them vote on a touch screen.
We have a few arguments for our side today.
The first is that we think that electronic voting leaves the whole election much more vulnerable to fraud versus paper ballots.
With electronic voting someone can hack into the system and change the way that people have voted or damage the vote or even just by hacking in, make it so that we can no longer trust those ballots and they have to be discarded.
So someone could for instance hack the voting machines in an area that normally goes for one party and therefore hurt that party when all of those ballots have to be discarded as tampered with.
So there's lots of easy ways that fraud can be committed and many people, although this is never been proven, suspect that there was a great deal of fraud with electronic voting machines in the last US presidential election.
Let's look at the alternative for paper ballots.
Inasmuch as these are normally treated as very important, it's rare that paper ballots are going to be out of the sight of multiple people at once.
So there's no way that one rogue actor can damage all of the paper ballots or make them invalid.
Moreover, because we screen the people who are allowed to volunteer for elections, ultimately it's unlikely that someone who is going to tamper with the ballots will ever have a lot of access to them.
So we think that ultimately there's going to be less fraud and that even when fraud occurs, such as someone submitting fake ballots, it will be on a much smaller scale.
It's much easier to change the outcomes for entire provinces with electronic tampering than it is with paper tampering where you would need a huge conspiracy instead of one or two dedicated people.
So we think there's simply less fraud without electronic voting and that that makes elections more legitimate and therefore, that we should abolish it.
But our next point is that electronic voting is very expensive.
Realize that electronic voting is normally sold as being cheaper than paper ballots because we don't have to pay people to count them, or get volunteers to count them, and we don't have to provide all of the physical infrastructure.
But in fact, this rarely proves to be the case.
The great thing about paper ballots is that they're idiot proof.
There's no way that anyone can break an expensive machine when all you're using is a ballpoint pen and a piece of glossy paper.
Moreover, since voting machines have to be changed often because they're vulnerable to hacking or other problems, we end up spending lots of money every election to get new voting machines that were promised will last forever, when in fact they only last a few years.
The infrastructure for these paper ballots can be re-used time and time again, so ultimately it's going to save money and make it easier for us to run elections.
And our final argument is that electronic voting is confusing for many people.
Many elderly people or immigrants or people who aren't used to working with certain types of technology can become confused by having to use an electronic voting machine.
Someone who isn't used to using a touch screen might accidentally press the wrong button or in some way compromise their own ballot.
But moreover, we think that people often find it confusing to have to select their own language or make other decisions about using the voting machine and that oftentimes they're not able to get help from an assistant because they're in the voting booth proper.
So we think that ultimately it would be less confusing for people to use a paper ballot and that these people who are having a hard time voting deserve the same opportunity to express themselves as everyone else.
So in order to reduce the ease of fraud, in order to reduce expenses, and in order to reduce the confusing nature of these machines, we should abolish electronic voting.
Thank you.