We should not increase government regulation.
We have three arguments for our side this evening: the first is that if we increase government regulation then ultimately people will give less credence to the regulations that we have.
If you create a situation where it's very difficult for people to be in compliance with the law then it's more likely that people will just ignore the law and the regulations to begin with.
After all, if you're going to be in violation of some regulation no matter what you do, then what's the point of spending lots of time and money in order to avoid being in violation of any given regulation?
So ultimately, over regulation is going to lead to less respect for the law and less respect for the rule of law and we think that that's very detrimental because it means that even really beneficial regulations are more likely to be violated if you get into this state of over regulation.
Our next argument is that enforcement of more regulations would be very expensive.
Regulations without enforcement ultimately don't do anything.
If people know that there's no way that they'll be caught for violating the rules then it's much more likely that they will choose to violate the regulations or not follow them.
A good example of this is osha.
Osha is a workplace safety regulator in the united states.
There are some regulations that osha regularly investigates people for and if you're in violation of those you can get into a lot of trouble.
There are other regulations that osha never checks on and no one follows them as a result.
In fact, many people make fun of osha and say that they don't do anything or that they're useless because there are so many regulations that they don't enforce.
So we think that ultimately the only way to get around this problem would be to drastically increase the budget of these enforcement agencies.
Groups like osha or the EPA.
You would have to hire lots more inspectors and regulators to go around and double check that people are doing what they're supposed to and also probably increase your bureaucracy in order to cope with the much larger amount of violators.
So we think that a major impact of increasing government regulation is increasing the amount of money that the government has to spend to enforce those regulations.
Ultimately government resources are fungible.
If you spend this money on enforcing building codes then you're not spending it on building elementary schools or feeding hungry people.
So we think that it's just irresponsible to increase government regulation and the expenses that go along with it when you could spend that money on other things that are much more beneficial.
And our last point is that we think that this would be detrimental to businesses.
It's already difficult to run a business in a western country because there are so many regulations that you have to follow.
We think that every time you introduce more regulation you weed out otherwise successful businesses that could have existed if that regulation wasn't in effect.
So ultimately you're getting rid of lots of businesses that could have contributed to the economy and employed people when you increase regulation.
Now some people might say that if those businesses could only exist because they weren't being regulated well then they don't deserve to exist.
But the point remains that if you want to have more small and medium sized businesses and not just an economy that consists of super large businesses that you need to reduce the amount of regulation so that those groups can actually compete.
Because the only people who can afford to follow all of these regulations are going to be large companies.
So for all of these reasons we should not increase government regulation.
Thank you.