We should not introduce recall elections.
We think that jurisdictions that currently have recall elections should get rid of them and that jurisdictions like massachusetts that don't have recall elections should not introduce them.
We have two main points for our side: the first is that this prevents any unpopular but necessary change from being made, and the second is that this encourages the most rank kind of populism, even outside of election years.
Rachel tells you that these recall elections are good because they prevent abuse, but realize that ordinary people are unwilling to make any kind of sacrifice to any government policy that benefits them, even though they want to cut every other policy.
The average american wants the government to only spend money on programs that are personally to their benefit.
People who drive want better roads.
People who take the subway want more subsidy for trains.
People who live in the country want more subsidies for rural people, etcetera.
What this means is that if there were hard but necessary decisions to be made, such as cutting a particular subsidy because it's too expensive or ending a program that employs lots of people in one city, because it doesn't provide enough benefit to the country as a whole, those policies will never be undertaken because of recall elections.
Why?
Rachel presents this as a check on abuse, but people have different ideas about what constitutes abuse.
People are going to recall any governor or senator or representative who tries to pass a law that is contrary to their personal interest.
This means that no such law will ever be passed, which means that government programs will get more and more bloated, and it will be more and more difficult to control them for efficiency or in order to limit spending.
At the end of the day, recall elections will make the united states even more ungovernable than it is right now.
When you consider the fact that we have huge amounts of projects that only exist to employ people and don't actually benefit anyone, such as the famous bridge to nowhere, projects like that will only become more common, and no one will speak up against them if recall elections allow voters to punish them for showing any sort of responsibility to the country as a whole.
But our second argument is that this will just lead to more populism.
Right now, during election years, politicians say anything they can to appeal to people's most base nature, see donald trump, in order to win votes.
Luckily, for the most part, politicians then go on to ignore that populism, outside of election years, and try to govern to the best of their ability.
We think that if recall elections were to become more common, then politicians would have to remain in this populist mode of thought all the time.
Why is this a problem?
Well, first of all, we think it makes them more likely to rely on the " us versus them " rhetoric, even when they're already in office and have to represent everyone.
A common trend is that politicians seem very radical during primaries, and then moderate for the general election, and then moderate even more once in office.
We think that this is probably because you have to appeal to the most radical group of people in the primary, then less radical in the election, and then the entire population once you're governing.
But if you have to worry about radicals recalling you from office or leading to these expensive referenda to recall you from office, then you're always going to have to appeal to those people in order to keep your seat, so it'll be very difficult for any politician to represent all of the people.
They will only represent that group that got them elected in order to avoid a recall election.
So we think that this will degrade the overall quality of american governance, even lower than it already is which is really saying something, because it's pretty atrocious right now.
For all of these reasons, we should not introduce recall elections.
Thank you.