We should not abandon tabloid journalism.
By this we mean that we don't think that governments should create laws against tabloid journalism beyond those that already exist to protect privacy.
We don't think that governments or other actors should, in particular, single out this one type of media versus other types of media for being silenced or shut down.
We have three main arguments: the first about freedom of speech, the second about the public interest, and the third about the fact that these actually do useful work sometimes.
In terms of free speech, tabloids are important because they're a relatively low-barrier-to-entry type of medium.
It's very difficult to start up a broadsheet newspaper.
It's extremely expensive.
But starting up a tabloid or that type of paper is much less expensive.
This means that there's less of a barrier to entry for people and groups that are otherwise less likely to have print media.
I think this is why, for instance, if you go around new york, you'll oftentimes see chinese language newspapers printed in a tabloid format, because it's relatively cheap, so for that community, it's the easiest way to have a print paper and to have print media.
Although it's true that print media is less important now than it was twenty five years ago, it is still important to a community to have that available, and we think that tabloids do still fill a purpose in our society.
Because, remember, tabloids aren't all just stories about celebrities getting pregnant or whatever.
This is a genre that can include all types of things as long as they're printed in this particular format.
So we think that in as much as it serves the good for certain communities, it should not be banned.
But our second point is about how there's clearly a public interest in this product.
People wouldn't print celebrity tabloids if there wasn't a market for them.
Clearly, someone is buying these.
We think that it's unnecessary for the government to ban this product that doesn't really hurt anybody and that, clearly, people actually want to have.
I'm sure the other side is going to say that tabloids are evil because they spy on celebrities and all this stuff.
But the fact remains that it's actually fairly easy for celebrities to keep a low profile if they want to do so, but most celebrities don't.
They want press attention.
Yes, there are some instances when the paparazzi are invasive of people's space but, nowadays, that isn't just a matter of tabloids.
And getting rid of tabloids wouldn't solve that problem because the bigger money is for shows like " the view ", but also social media and things like that.
So we don't think that getting rid of tabloids would solve any problem to do with privacy, and we do think that there's clearly a compelling demand for them.
And we think that people should be free to consume the media they wish to consume and, therefore, that these types of tabloids should not be banned or abandoned.
And the last thing we'd would like to point out is that tabloids can reveal real stories.
It's true that this is rare and that you're more likely to see twelve reasons that some celebrity was kidnapped by space aliens than hard hitting-journalism from a tabloid, but there's no reason that these types of papers can't bring legitimate concerns to light.
And more importantly, they can bring them to people's attention who might otherwise not be aware of them.
When tabloids cover a certain issue, they bring attention to that issue to a demographic who probably doesn't read broadsheet newspapers or news magazines.
So we think that they can create more of a discourse surrounding issues than what would otherwise exist and among a community that is not very well served necessarily by traditional media, since tabloid readers are probably more likely to be of lower education and lower income.
We think that a type of media that serves that community is valuable, even if it's not, you know, the platonic ideal of media, to put it lightly.
But for all of these reasons, we think that tabloids do still have a role in our society and that they should not be banned or abandoned.
Thank you.