We should not fight for quebec's independence.
On our side of the house, we think that there are many drawbacks to fighting for quebec independence that outweigh the potential benefits of having the referendum that the other side talks about.
Our first argument is that this would inflame tensions even more than the status quo.
If you compare the situation in quebec now to thirty years ago, you'll see that there's much less tension in the province surrounding independence than there used to be.
Back in the nineteen seventies and eighties, there were actual terrorist groups that were committing a lot of acts of violence in quebec in name of independence, and fortunately, over the last generation, a lot of these extremist groups have lost influence in the community and now there's not really any quebec secessionist terrorism that I'm aware of today, although I'll admit I'm not canadian, so I'm not completely up-to-date on some of this.
But it seems clear that if you were fighting for quebec independence, you would inflame tensions in the community and that certain people, if they became very passionate about quebec independence, would be willing to turn to terrorism, and who might suffer if they did?
I'd like to point out that in the nineteen nineties quebec secession referendum, many immigrant communities voted strongly in favor of remaining part of canada because, well, obviously, they immigrated to canada not to quebec, and they wanted to maintain their investment in immigrating to canada.
So I think it's likely that, given that history, that many of these terrorist groups would target minority immigrant communities who are very visible and might be more easily targeted than white anglo canadians, who are somewhat invisible until they open their mouths.
So because of that, I think there's a huge cost to certain communities who haven't done anything wrong, if you were to start fighting for quebec independence.
We think that you would incite this type of violence, based on the history of the province, and that, unfortunately, the people who would be targeted aren't the anglo canadians who are trying to hold on to quebec.
It would be immigrant communities who don't really have a say in the matter to begin with, and who certainly don't deserve to be targeted in this way.
We think that it would be unacceptable to promote fighting for quebec independence as long as you encourage people to unfairly target immigrants.
And I think that that is a necessary part of this.
Why?
Immigrant communities are always going to oppose quebec independence, first of all, because the national government provides a lot more resources for immigrants than the quebec government.
The quebec government is very focused on preserving quebecois culture and the french language, which I want to say I think is a worthwhile endeavor and it's important to protect quebecois culture and the french language, but that means that these immigrant communities are much more reliant on the national government and the provincial government for some things and as a result, they're going to be more loyal to that national government.
So, necessarily, any violence that does occur will target these immigrant communities who are already facing some discrimination and are worse off than average canadians.
So we think those who are worst off would suffer if you had this policy implemented.
And our second argument is that there was already a referendum in recent memory and people voted to remain.
We think it's unfair to just spam having referendums every ten or fifteen years until secessionists get the result that they want.
In the last referendum, admittedly, it was very close, but that doesn't mean that you just get a do-over because you don't like the results.
People need to live with the fact that there was a fair free vote according to the united nations and that quebec voted to remain in canada.
Now the other side might point out that this happened in the nineteen nineties and it's been a long time, but it's not clear to me how often it's appropriate to have a nation-altering referendum.
It seems like they should be very rare since the potential fallout is so great.
So perhaps once in a generation is a fair amount of times to have this referendum, but in that case we still have awhile to go, since the last one was in the nineties.
For all these reasons, we should not fight for quebec independence.
Thank you.