We should not introduce school vouchers.
We think that parents should not be able to withdraw their children from public schools and receive public funds to put them into other schools, which ultimately is the way that school vouchers work.
Three arguments for our side's.
The first is that vouchers undermine public schools.
Public schools rely on receiving property taxes from the people in a community in order to function.
So if you take away that property tax, then the school takes a huge hit.
And ultimately, schools rely on a certain critical mass of students in order to succeed.
If you have a public school that maybe isn't doing so well right now with a budget of ten million dollars, let's say, cutting the budget by giving parents vouchers to send their children to christian schools instead isn't going to make that school any better.
Instead, you fall into a spiral where parents, who, even with vouchers, can't send their kids elsewhere, send their kids to public school, and middle class people who can now afford to send their kids to other schools, because of vouchers, do so, and ultimately you have the worst off in society going to much worse schools than everyone else.
Moreover, when the kind of middle class bourgeoisie parents send their children elsewhere, they don't care about what happens in public schools and their community.
So you lose out on the community investment in these schools.
Parents aren't demanding that certain programs or classes be offered or requiring that a bad principal be fired and things like that because many working parents don't have the time to do these things, and the parents who do have that time, no longer send their children there.
So this leads to much worse public schools on aggregate, and ultimately this means that we're not fulfilling our obligation to provide a good education to the children who are going to those public schools.
Our second argument is about self-segregation.
The voucher movement in the US actually has its roots in school desegregation.
In the late nineteen sixties, early nineteen seventies, schools in the US were integrated, so that black and white children had to go to the same schools.
In some cities, like boston, this meant that white children and black children were bused to schools in other neighborhoods so that they would go to a more integrated school, because the neighborhoods were segregated.
In response to this, many parents began demanding that they be allowed to take their property taxes and send their children to all-white schools elsewhere.
Today, even now, if you look at the charter schools or christian schools that most parents would send their children to with these vouchers, they are overwhelmingly white.
There's very little diversity of religion or diversity of race or opinion, so ultimately this is just a tool for parents to reinstate segregation.
We think this is harmful because it means that children don't grow up socializing with people of other races, which means that they'll be less empathetic towards them as adults.
This is a huge risk to society because it undermines societal cohesion.
And our third and final point is about economies of scale.
It is much more efficient to run schools with more students.
Resources that everyone can use, like gymnasia, pools, and tennis courts can only be afforded if there are is a sufficient amount of students at the school.
At the same time, specialty classes might only be offered if there are enough students at the school willing to take them, for instance, having german or french instead of just spanish classes.
So we think that ultimately if schools are too small, then they lose the ability to provide many resources to their students.
Therefore, it's important that we keep public schools as large as possible by preventing parents from withdrawing their children to send them to charter schools instead.
So for all these reasons, because this would undermine public schools and the public school system, because it promotes segregation, and because we lose out on the benefits of the economies of scale, we should not introduce school vouchers.
Thank you.