We should not raise the corporate tax rate because contrary to what tim tells you this actually has many perverse effects that will harm the ability of the state to effectively collect revenue.
The first thing I'd like to point out is that this will lead to either companies moving their wealth away from a country or just evading taxes in general.
Tim's entire case relies on the idea that he can increase government revenues by raising corporate taxes but that won't actually happen because as corporate taxes go up, there's also a much larger incentive to avoid paying those taxes.
We can see for instance that in the united states, which has one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world right now, many companies are leaving in order to go to european countries that have lower corporate tax rates.
Apple for instance now operates using an irish shell company as their primary corporate identity rather than the american company that actually does all of their work because ireland has very low corporate tax rates.
So the united states is actually losing out on tax revenue from companies like apple and many other smaller companies because their corporate tax rate isn't competitive globally.
In this day and age businesses are not beholden to the company that they come from, they're only beholden to their shareholders.
So they're able to do things like move to ireland.
So as long as there are countries that are willing to offer a lower tax rate, you can't raise your rates too high or companies will leave.
Our second argument is that there's no connection between a higher corporate tax rate and higher salaries or better conditions for workers.
Tim tries to paint this odd connection between higher corporate tax rates and more equality in general but we don't think that's true.
First, he makes this bizarre claim that there will be cuts to executive salaries rather than those of ordinary workers but this patently isn't true.
In the two thousand eight financial crisis ordinary employees took substantial pay cuts while executives got huge golden parachutes and didn't have to take any cuts.
So we can see that it's actually going to be ordinary workers who suffer if corporate taxes are increased and businesses become less profitable.
They're going to be the ones asked to make sacrifices or ordinary workers and low level management not the executives who make these decisions.
But on top of that we tell you that just because a corporation pays more taxes doesn't it pays it's workers better even if you don't think that's the case.
There's no link between these two things, it's just an assertion.
Now tim might be able to say that this would give the government more money to spend on things like welfare programs but we don't think that governments will actually do this and that leads nicely into my final argument which is that governments won't necessarily use this revenue well.
What do I mean?
Well in the mid twentieth century britain had very high tax rates on individuals and on corporations but at this time britain wasn't an especially well run country.
I mean I guess you could say britain hasn't been a very well run country in a very long time but the fact remains that compared to the US britain was more unequal and while it did have a universal healthcare schema, britons weren't necessarily healthier or longer lived than americans.
Today britain has a similar corporate tax rate to the united states and again doesn't have the same standard of living as the US.
Why is this the case?
Well just because governments have revenue from a certain source doesn't mean that they'll use it effectively.
We think that governments that have historically done a good job preserving their people's well being, like sweden or denmark, could probably use this money effectively but that most governments are probably going to piss this away on corruption or waste it on other things that aren't actually effective.
We think that large military budgets, spending on paying off the deficit and other things are just as likely to claim this money as welfare programs.
We don't think the other side can just assert that it will be used to help people when welfare programs have been going by the wayside for a long time.
For all these reasons, we should not raise corporate tax rates.
Thank you.