We should introduce a pollution tax.
By this we mean that we should tax companies for emitting poisonous chemicals or other emissions into the environment.
We think that in particular we could target greenhouse gases because of the risk that they pose to changing the global climate.
With that model in mind, we have three arguments for our side.
The first is that we need to make companies internalize the cost of their actions.
The reason why companies burn so many fossil fuels and release so many polluting chemicals into the environment is that they don't have to pay for the cleanup.
Ultimately companies pollute the environment and make lots and lots of money and the government has to pay to go in and clean up the mess that they leave behind.
What we have right now is a system where you privatize all of the profits and make all of the drawbacks public.
This has to change, we need to force these companies to absorb the cost of the way that they do business.
Many of them will go out of business immediately they just won't be able to pay for the harms that they're doing, but what that means is that these businesses were never worth it in the first place since ultimately they were doing more harm than good or they would have been able to pay this tax.
We think it's very likely that many companies will completely change the way that they do business.
For instance that companies will start adopting electric cars even if they're more expensive than gas powered cars but this is necessary in the long term in order to prevent climate change so we think that forcing them to do it now will just reduce the amount that it costs to make changes to fight climate change in the future since we will have already taken steps to limit its effects.
We'd also like to point out that ultimately the only way to fight climate change is going to be to spend trillions of dollars on infrastructure.
Once sea levels rise cities like new york and boston are going to be under water or very close to being under water.
We're going to have to build dikes around some of the world's largest cities.
Massive populations from countries like bangladesh are going to have to be resettled elsewhere as their countries become inundated with water.
Climate change is going to be the most expensive problem that the world has ever faced and the only way to overcome it is going to be to raise revenues so that the state can fight against it.
What better way than to tax the people who are making this necessary in the first place.
We think that given that we need lots of money to fight against climate change and given that some of the most profitable companies in the world would be affected by this tax that ultimately this is the best way to make these people pay for what they've done and also to help those in the future who suffer from their actions.
And even if you think that this isn't all going to be spent on climate change it's still probably better to have the government have the money than exxon mobil.
After all, most of what the state spends its money on is socially utile.
It might be spent on schools or education or roads but probably anything is better than having this money go into the pockets of wealthy investors.
At the end of the day, much of government policy is based on separating the wealthy from their money in order to provide for everyone else and this is a particularly effective and just way to do so.
Which leads into our final argument, that this is a tax on the people who can most afford to bear it.
We think that a good tax should be set on the shoulders of the people who can afford that tax rather than being set on everyones' shoulders.
This is why for instance progressive taxes are preferable to flat taxes, because the people who pay the most are those who can afford to pay the most.
A pollution tax will work similarly.
The companies who make the most money off of cheap energy will be the ones who have to pay the most in pollution taxes which means that ultimately it will be the people who have received the most benefit who pay the most in tax which we think is fair since those will be the people with the most money in the first place.
For all of these reasons we should implement a pollution tax.
Thank you.