The right to strike should not be protected.
We think that groups like the national labor relations board and comparable organizations in other highly developed countries should not guarantee workers the right to strike if they can't reach a favorable contract with their employer.
We're going to explain, first, why this is unnecessary nowadays ; second, why there are third-party harms ; and then third, we're going to respond to some points the other side might bring up about past benefits.
So, first, why is the right to strike unnecessary in today's economy?
Many fewer people now will work at one business for their entire life, whereas a hundred years ago or seventy five years ago, someone might start working at general motors, and work there for forty years, and then retire and not have the ability, frankly, to transfer to another job.
Today, most people hold a job for a few years, maybe even ten or fifteen years, but will ultimately work at multiple employers over the course of their career.
This norm has given workers much more power relative to employers than they had when it was the norm to work at the same company your entire life.
Nowadays, there's actual competition for wages, because if I work at general motors and they pay a dollar an hour less than ford, I'm going to go work at ford, whereas this wasn't really available to people due to various practices that are now illegal that were being done in the nineteen tens or the nineteen twenties.
So we think that the impetus for the need for a right to strike, namely the inability of workers to negotiate fairly with their employers, is just gone today.
Now people are unlikely to be at one job for a long time and even if they are, they have the freedom to move elsewhere, so the market can actually solve for wages in a way that it just couldn't a hundred years ago.
We think that also the right to strike is unnecessary because wages generally aren't determined by striking over a contract anymore.
The way that unions negotiate has just changed, and most workers are no longer in unions.
So this isn't something that affects very many people anymore, and we think it's more important to focus our efforts on raising wages as a whole rather than letting a tiny minority of dock workers and other still-unionized workers go on strike.
Secondly, there are a lot of third-party harms to strikes.
When workers go on strikes that means that people don't get access to goods and services that they need or want.
Now sometimes this is pretty marginal.
If general motors workers go on strike, maybe that means that I can't go out and buy a chevy truck in a couple of months, but that doesn't really matter.
But since most workers now who are in unions and who are able to strike work in the public sector, we think that there are much greater harms that can occur.
If school teachers, for instance, go on strike, then that means that students aren't in school, so they're not learning and they're not getting an education but in addition, now their parents have to find somewhere else for them to go during the day that's safe and gives them a positive environment to be in.
The same thing with police.
If the police go on strike, that means that the streets aren't being protected.
If garbage men go on strike, that means that now the garbage isn't being collected and there's going to be lots of rats and disease.
So we can see that there are a lot of harms to innocent third parties when public sector workers go on strike, and these are the people who are most likely to strike in today's economy.
I'd just like to briefly respond now to the idea that this has been a very successful technique in the past.
Nowadays from manufacturing you're not worried about scabs crossing the picket line from the next town over.
If workers in manufacturing in the US or britain and similar countries go on strike, that manufacturing can just be moved to china or mexico, because globalization means that we are now able to do manufacturing almost anywhere.
So I don't think that this is even an effective piece of leverage for most workers today, because globalization means that workers in another country can do their job more cheaply.
For all these reasons, we should not protect the right to strike.
Thank you.