We should not abolish monarchies.
So I'm really going to focus on constitutional monarchs here because we're fine with saying that countries like saudi arabia should probably transition to being constitutional monarchies rather than remaining absolute monarchies.
And on top of that, that this has been the trend for the last few hundred years.
There are very few true, absolute monarchies today and we think that that trend is likely to continue.
So we're talking about countries like the netherlands and britain then which have a monarch as their head of state.
Our first argument is about national sentiment.
For many people the monarchy represents their country and is something that they identify with and are happy to have.
While it may be true that the british government spends money on maintaining the household guards and certain castles and royal properties, ultimately the english people seem to like it.
We see that, at the end of the day, if people are happy with having a monarchy that it's not something that we should get rid of willy nilly.
We're fine with countries having republican referenda to decide whether they want to keep their monarchy but no country in the last twenty years, to my knowledge, has voted to abolish theirs so it seems unlikely that countries are going to begin doing so wholesale.
In fact it seems like people are more or less content to have a monarch as a sort of grandfatherly or grandmotherly figure who brings the country together.
At the end of the day people like to have a non political figure around who represents their country.
Someone whom everyone can identify with and whom everyone can enjoy having on television or at parades and the like.
So we think that this is more or less a good thing, that it makes people happy, and that the harms of having it are very marginal.
Our second argument is about stability.
In many countries the monarchy serves an important role as an apolitical part of government.
So when you have a country with a head of state separate from the head of government, ideally you'd like to have that head of state be someone that everyone identifies with.
Because there will be times in your nation's history when there is unrest or when there are difficulties and someone has to be able to rise above the political level in order to appeal to everyone in your country.
For instance, having the royal family in britain during the two world wars gave them a figure who was able to tell people to support their country even if they were politically opposed to winston churchill during world war two.
We think that monarchs can do a lot to promote stability.
They represent a continuity with the country's past and they represent a continuity in the country's culture as well.
Whereas countries that don't have monarchs often experience rapid shifts in elite culture, or trend setting because political leaders determine those things, countries with monarchies tend to be more stable and you don't have someone like donald trump replace barack obama as your head of state and your arbiter of what is and is not acceptable in such a rapid way in a country where a monarch would do this for their entire lifetime and then pass the position on to their child.
So we think that this does bring stability to your country culturally as well as politically.
And thirdly we'd just like to point out that most of the harms of monarchs are actually not unique to them, they're harms to having a head of state.
So a few countries around the world like the US and mexico have the head of government serve as the head of state.
The president of both of those countries is both.
But in many other countries, like france or india, you have not only a head of government, the prime minister, but also a president who serves as the head of state.
Now in france the president is relatively powerful, in india they're basically a figure head, but either way you still have to have someone who serves as the official representative of your country even though you're a republic.
So you still have to have lots of security, you still have to have a presidential palace, so ultimately many of the harms they tell you about in terms of the monarchy are not unique to monarchy but rather are expenses to having a head of state.
And if you have a prestigious country then you're likely to put a lot of money into those things whether you are a republic like france or a monarchy like britain.
So for all of these reasons we should not abolish monarchies.
Thank you.