We should end mandatory retirement.
So, right now, in many countries, such as germany, people have to retire when they reach a certain age, like sixty-five.
We think that people should be able to continue to work as long as they do a satisfactory job and meet their employers' expectations, which is already the status quo in some other countries, like the united states.
So, with this in mind, we have three points for our side.
First, we think that mandatory retirement is discriminatory against the elderly.
We think that presumably these are people who want to continue working for whatever reason, at the point where they're being forced to retire.
People who want to retire are outside the scope of this debate, because they'll continue to do so either way.
We think that there's no reason why you shouldn't be able to work, given that you wish to do so.
Just because of your age, it seems arbitrary as a standard.
If you're forty-five or sixty-five, either way you might have bills to pay that you need to work to fulfill, or you might enjoy your job or find it personally fulfilling and want to continue it.
We think that you shouldn't discriminate against people who are sixty-five while you let those four forty-five do what they want.
We think that ultimately, the state needs to treat people fairly regardless of intrinsic characteristics, that is to say, things that are beyond people's control.
In the same way that we don't think that latino people and white people should have different standards for one when they're allowed to work, neither should people of different age groups.
Our second argument is that we think that mandatory retirement actually harms the work force and institutions.
So realize that, presumably, these are people who aren't being asked to retire in the status quo.
Because imagine right now that we have, I don't know, a manager in an office who isn't doing a satisfactory job because of their age, that person could be asked to retire or resign in the status quo because they aren't doing their job well.
So the only people that this debate is about is people who are still performing their job in a satisfactory way, and we can imagine many careers where people could work well into their seventies and still do a good job, such as university professors.
So at this point, we tell you that these institutions are losing out on workers who are doing such a good job that the company wants to keep them on.
We think that, ultimately, individual companies or universities or other employers better know who ought to be hired and who ought to be fired than the government.
As long as we protect against discrimination among employers, we think that ultimately they should have the final say on who they employ.
Because some government bureaucrat, who looks at the numbers on a piece of paper about a person, can't see if they contribute lots of unique experience or values or leadership in the office that might be lost if that person were forced to retire.
We think that ultimately, it's likely that you access things like leadership uniquely when you keep older people around because they have seen more problems arise and better know how to cope with them, and also because of the respect that they command within the workplace.
Our third and final argument, which I hinted at earlier, is that there's no fair standard for mandatory retirement.
Some countries, like germany, have one age for basically everyone, but this seems unfair because different jobs have different requirements.
It probably is true that you can't be a stone mason into your seventies because physical fitness would prevent you from doing so.
But why can't you be a university professor or a newspaper reporter, when those jobs are things that primarily rely on your thinking ability rather than your ability to do physical labor.
We tell you, ultimately, that you could make different standards for different types of employment, but then that discriminates against people in certain career paths.
We think that in order to win the debate, the other team needs to explain to you what a fair, clear standard is.
We tell you that if it's different ages for different careers that that's arbitrary, and so is one age for every career.
So we don't think that they'll be able to meet this burden.
For these reasons, I am proud to suggest that we should end mandatory retirement.
Thank you.