We should fight for tibetan independence.
So in this debate we're not saying literally that the US or the EU should invade the people's republic of china to secure tibetan independence.
Instead, we are arguing that activists in the west should devote comparable amounts of attention to tibet that they devote to other major international causes such as palestine.
We think that this might take the form of movements to divest from china, to boycott products produced in tibet, or to implement sanctions on the chinese government.
Two arguments for why we think that activists should take this stance: first we think that it's important that activists are consistent if they want to be taken seriously.
In many circles, pro-palestinian or other activist groups are laughed out of the room because it seem that they focus on one issue at the expense of every other issue.
A common refrain that you'll hear is: " why do you care so much about palestinians if you don't care about anyone else suffering in the world? "
We think that there is some truth to this.
That in particular college students and other young people are likely to fixate on certain humanitarian causes at the expense of all others.
At that point, we think it's important that activist groups seek to have solidarity and to focus on broader issues of humanitarian abuses rather than only on particular instances, and that doing this would increase their standing in the mainstream media and in the eyes of the general public.
Given that the situation in tibet is so dire - the tibetan language is being suppressed, people aren't allowed to practice their religion, the chinese army is actively there oppressing people - we think that this is a clear instance where activists should take a stance if they really care about helping people in need and if they really care about human rights.
More on that in just a moment.
But we think also that this consistency is important if we want people globally to think that liberalism is something worth investing time and effort in.
We think that the reason why so many international movements for peace or for freedom are led by marxists rather than liberals, such as the movement in napal that overthrew their monarchy a few years ago, is that liberals are seen is ideologically bankrupt in much of the developing world.
It seem that liberals tend to focus on issues that affect white people basically, more than people of color, that liberals tend to ignore problems that happen outside of certain countries and certain bubbles.
We think that focusing on the plight of tibet, would go a long way to assuaging these fears and increasing the standing of liberalism globally.
Our second argument though is about why we think it's important that we defend the right to self determination.
So we would contend that all nations have a right to determine how they are governed.
That this applies to various minority groups around the world.
Everywhere from catalonia to quebec to palestine to tibet, and that the real reason that there's a humanitarian crisis in tibet is not just that the chinese government treats people poorly, because to be frank they treat lots of han chinese people very poorly in shanghai and beijing, but rather that they deny the tibetan people the ability to govern themselves and subjugate them under chinese rule.
We see that similarly the russians have done this to the chechens and that, in a much more benign way, this goes on in countries like the US and canada.
But we think that at the point where many protesters are focusing on things like quebec independence, it's hypocritical for them to argue that there is this right to self determination and not to try to apply that elsewhere around the world, particularly in instances where there are much clearer humanitarian abuses.
So we think that there is a right to self determination that all nations have, that we see this is been enshrined in international law by things like the UN declaration on human rights, and also by precedent with things like the american declaration of independence, but that activist needs to be consistent in the application of defense of this right.
At that point we think it's important that we fight for tibetan independence.
Thank you.