We should not further exploit aquaculture.
On our side of the house, we acknowledge that there are some benefits of aquaculture, but we think that the market has already accounted for the demand that exists for aquaculture and that trying to expand it any further, using some sort of government policy, would be unnecessary and unneeded.
Our first argument is that aquaculture is actually bad for the environment, especially were we to increase the amount of resources that are devoted to it.
Tim pointed out two different ways that aquaculture is used: one, when certain areas of the coastline are devoted to aquaculture, and the second when big inland pools of water are created for aquaculture.
In the first instance, when aquaculture is done off the shore, you destroy the natural ecosystem in a particular area in order to create this little safe space for your aquaculture.
So, if you're growing animals that don't necessarily live in a particular area or that are part of a certain ecosystem, while excluding every other animal that lives in that ecosystem, for instance, by raising shrimp and excluding all of their predators, you're doing a great harm to that ecosystem because, now, the shrimp that would have been part of the ecosystem and been food for those predators aren't, and many of those predators are going to die off.
Similarly, we think that if you practice inland aquaculture, first of all, you're creating a huge harm to the environment by digging these big trenches full of water that otherwise wouldn't be there, because they probably are disruptive to the local water cycle since you're taking a large amount of water out of that cycle, and also because you're taking this land, and enclosing it, and setting it up for use in agriculture in a way that it hadn't been previously.
One way, in particular, that aquaculturalists are different than traditional agriculture that's uniquely bad is that whereas many animals actually thrive around human agriculture, like squirrels and birds that live in fallow fields, essentially no native wildlife is going to be able to take advantage of these big pools.
They'll be sealed off so no animal will be able to access them, so this is actually much more disruptive for the local ecosystem than other types of farming, even if those other types of farming aren't perfect.
So we see that there are many environmental harms and, therefore, that even if aquaculture can save us some money or might encourage people to eat slightly less meat, that we shouldn't invest lots of resources into encouraging it.
And this leads nicely into our second argument that we would prefer an all-vegetarian society in the future and that investing heavily in aquaculture makes this less likely.
We would argue that the only sustainable way to have ten billion people in the world, which is the predicted population once population growth levels off in a few decades, we need to have everyone become vegetarian.
A vegetarian lifestyle dramatically lowers someone's individual carbon emissions and, of course, we need to lower everyone's carbon emissions in order to reduce the greenhouse effect.
The single largest contribution most people make to the greenhouse effect comes from the food and goods that they consume.
So getting people to switch over to recycled goods and vegetarian food is essential to cutting their carbon footprint.
The reason this is less likely on the other side of the debate is because if people get used to the idea that eating shrimp or fish produced through aquaculture is green and healthy, then they won't ever entertain alternatives, or they'll be much less likely to entertain alternatives like complete vegetarianism, which would actually be e-significantly better.
The other side might say that we shouldn't let the perfect be the enemy of the good, but when we're talking about the potential end of the world through climate change, I'm not sure that we have any choice here.
It's absolutely essential that people cut down on their use of carbon and the only way to do that is to get people to switch over to being vegetarian, which is less likely if they become invested in the idea that they're doing enough by being pescetarian.
For all these reasons, we should not exploit aquaculture further.
Thank you.