We should not introduce teacher tenure reform.
So we're going to argue that primary and secondary school teachers should continue to have tenure so that they can't be fired after they've taught for a certain number of years without some sort of gross abuse.
Our first argument is that teacher tenure reform is a thinly veiled attempt to fire more expensive teachers.
What do we mean by this?
Most people who are proponents of teacher tenure reform say that we need to get rid of old bad teachers and bring in better young teachers but implicitly what they're saying here is that they want to get rid of teachers who have been teaching a long time and so have a higher salary and replace them with cheaper younger people and in right to work states and in places where you don't have teacher tenure we often see that older teachers are forced out and replaced with cheaper younger teachers who lack experience and ultimately who are not strictly better than the teachers they replace.
While it may be true that these people went to college more recently, we think that older teachers have a valuable perspective, have more understanding about how to engage with students and parents, and that ultimately a school is probably best off with a mix of older, younger, and in between teachers.
But if you undermine teacher tenure then suddenly short sighted administrators who want to save on their bottom line can fire anybody who's old enough to have a high salary, or somebody who has a doctorate or a master's degree for instance, because those people are more expensive and replace them with younger or less qualified teachers.
We think that this makes it very difficult for teachers to bargain for their own salary.
If you know that once you get a high salary you're in a much higher risk of being fired, then we think that people would feel pressured to accept less money than they're actually worth.
We would argue that teachers in many countries are already underpaid and that this only worsens their position.
At the end of the day, we think it's quite likely that this will harm education because many of the teachers you lose out on are actually doing a very good job they're just being compensated well for that job.
Our second argument is about how this opens teachers up to political backlash.
Let's say you're a teacher in an area that's very islamophobic and you have a lesson plan teaching students about the history of islam, you might have many parents who want to have you not teach that lesson because it doesn't conform to their political ideology but perhaps this is an important part of a world history course.
We think that you should not be able to be fired for teaching something just because it's unpopular with parents.
We think that teachers need to be free to teach their students the truth and not to be forced to ultimately only teach what some political appointee or administrator thinks they ought be teaching.
At the end of the day, we think that things like sex education, climate change, education, and education about other cultures are all likely to fall by the wayside without teacher tenure because these are going to be unpopular with some parents, will then petition those teachers to be fired even though they're providing an important part of the education of these young people.
Our third and final argument is that teachers shouldn't be punished for student performance.
Most opponents of teacher tenure want to tie teacher salary and teachers contracts to student performance.
The problem with this is that it's largely out of the hands of their teachers.
If you teach at a wealthy suburban school than your students will probably get good test scores.
If you teach at a poor inner city school than the probably have worse test scores.
This is independent of how good a job you do as a teacher.
It might take a very qualified teacher to help students who are english as a second language speakers to do well on a standardized test that requires that you be fluent in english and it might take a much less qualified teacher to help a group of american students do well on the same exam but ultimately if you got rid of teacher tenure you could just look at the average exam score and then fire the teacher who did more work with students who needed more help.
So we think that ultimately these are arbitrary standards that don't actually reflect your ability only the ability of the students that you've been tasked to work with.
For all of these reasons, we should not reform teacher tenure.
Thank you.