We should further exploit wind turbines.
In other words, we think that in areas where wind turbines are economically or technically feasible, such as much of the northeastern united states, that we ought build substantially more wind farms at the expense of fossil fuels.
We would support closing down coal and natural-gas-based power plants wherever it's possible to replace them with wind turbines right now.
Our first argument is fairly simple, that this is a green alternative to fossil fuels.
While it's true that it's fairly expensive to build wind turbines up front and there is a certain amount of pollution that goes into creating them, once they've been created, in the long-term, they will produce very few emissions compared to, say, burning natural gas.
So given this, we think that it's always going to be preferable to build wind turbines rather than to invest in new fossil fuel infrastructure, and that's why it's so important that we expand our green infrastructure writ large, including wind turbines.
If we don't further exploit wind turbines, then we will have to further exploit natural gas and coal in order to fuel economic growth.
So this is really a zero-sum game where either you invest more in a renewable green energy source or you invest more in fossil fuels and commit us to decades of more pollution.
So that's just an unacceptable alternative, so we really have to invest more in wind turbines.
Our second argument is that there's just a lost opportunity when we don't build wind turbines, because the energy in the wind is just lost.
There is an enormous amount of free energy moving around the earth in the form of air movements.
If we don't build wind turbines, then this energy goes to waste and does nothing.
Ultimately, it would just be a missed opportunity not to take advantage of this energy in order to improve people's lives, and obviously the only way to do that is to build wind turbines.
So, on our side, we're actually being more resourceful than the other side, because we're taking advantage of a resource that would otherwise completely go to waste.
There's no sense in being wasteful, therefore, we ought build these wind turbines.
And the last thing we'd like to talk about is the effect that wind turbines have on domestic industry.
One great thing about building a wind farm is that there's no way it can be outsourced.
Even in countries like france and britain, that have seen most of their heavy industry be outsourced in the last few years, domestic energy production is always going to have to remain domestic.
There's no way to produce energy for britain and put the plant in bangladesh, for instance.
What this means is that investing heavily in energy infrastructure can create a massive amount of jobs in your country.
If, for instance, britain were to invest heavily in wind turbines, you would have to build the wind turbines, which I suppose could be done in china, but they're going to have to be assembled in the united kingdom, installed in the united kingdom, and operated by british workers in the UK.
This creates a huge amount of jobs for people of various different backgrounds.
It's going to take a lot of engineers, so you employ lots of people with a university education, but many of the maintenance workers or installation workers are going to be people who don't have as much education.
So this is helpful for working-class people as well.
Ultimately, in the long term, there're going to be fewer jobs available for blue-collar people, but this is one way to boost the amount of jobs that are available.
And in particular, switching over to wind turbines from fossil fuel infrastructure is going to create a short-term boom of jobs that will be really beneficial to countries that are struggling to create economic growth right now and also be a good investment in the long term.
So for all of these reasons, we should further exploit wind turbines.
Thank you.