We should fight against global warming.
So by global warming we mean man made climate change which we've seen occurred over the twentieth century and into this century due to industry.
And by fight against it we mean we should take drastic action to try to limit the scope of future global warming.
Three arguments.
First, climate change is going to lead to hundreds of millions of people being displaced from their homes.
The entire country of bangladesh, for instance, which has about two hundred million people, is in a river basin, which means that it will be under water if sea levels rise even marginally.
At the point where no country in the world has the ability to house two hundred million bangladeshi refugees we think it's essential that steps are taken to prevent climate change from happening on such a scale that water's rise.
We see that cities like new york are likely to be under water in two hundred years if action isn't taken.
So even wealthy countries won't be able to escape this.
But ultimately, because no one is prepared for a refugee crisis on this scale, think about how much difficulty we're having dealing with two million syrian refugees, ultimately it would be a humanitarian disaster if climate change were not averted.
Our second argument is about why global warming is going to diminish global economic productivity and why this is a disaster.
So, right now there's a sort of rising tide that lifts all boats.
If you'll allow the kind of joke about rising sea levels, but at the point where the global economy is growing, people living in abject poverty in places like india or sub saharan africa, can expect that their children or their grandchildren will have a higher quality of life because the global economy is growing and it benefits their regions too.
Climate change poses a massive threat to economic growth in every region.
Why is this so?
Think about food production in america.
The US is the world's second largest food producer and one of the world's largest food exporters.
Due to global warming, it's quite likely that the great plains where all of the american grain is grown are going to get too warm to continue to support large scale agriculture.
Now you might think, oh well if america doesn't isn't fertile anymore we can grow things in canada.
We can just move north.
But the soil is not the same and the conditions are not the same there.
So some of the world's most fertile agricultural land is going to become worthless due to climate change.
And china, the other major global food producer, faces a risk of desertification due to climate change.
Which will also limit food outputs.
So we see that there's likely to be a catastrophic reduction in the productivity of the land, which will put millions if not billions of people at risk of food insecurity due to climate change.
Our third and final argument is about the unpredictable outcomes of climate change.
Recognize that nobody knows what is going to happen when climate change continues.
For instance if sea levels rise perhaps we'll end up in some sort of positive feedback loop where because sea levels rise, more ice melts, which leads to sea levels rising even more.
Some scientists have proposed that this could lead to a change in the gulf stream, which would cause europe, actually, to become much much colder than it is right now, to the point that it couldn't support its current population.
So that's just one existentialist threat to hundreds of millions of people that is difficult to predict right now but that could happen as a result of climate change.
At that point we think that we need to take drastic steps to fight against global warming in order to prevent something like that from happening.
Or other unforeseeable harmful events from taking place as well.
We think it's grossly irresponsible to make decisions when we don't know what the outcomes will be.
At that point because we know what the world will look like without climate change, better than with, and we will be better able to cope with its problems, we should fight against global warming.
Thank you.