We should encourage self-employment.
By this, we mean to say that governments should provide resources and support for entrepreneurs.
We think that that might take the form of tax breaks for entrepreneurs for educational programs and opportunities for entrepreneurs and other ways that the government could step in to make it easier for people to start their own business and become self-employed.
We have a few main arguments on our side: the first is about how this promotes economic growth, and the second is about how this helps low-income communities.
So, first, why does this promote economic growth?
If people are working for themselves, it's obvious that they tend to work much harder than if they're working for someone else.
At the end of the day, when people work for large corporations, they know that they're just a tiny cog in a machine, and there's usually not much incentive to do more than whatever the expectation is in order to maintain your position.
People don't have a real incentive to innovate, for the most part, because any profits they produce beyond their salary just go to their boss, and they don't see any return or reward for that.
On the other hand, when people work for themselves, they have every incentive to innovate to try to come up with the best business possible, to work as hard as they're able because they keep all of the profits and reap all of the benefits of that hard work.
This is why we can see that startups tend to be more innovative than big companies, with no offense to IBM, of course.
We see that when people are working on their own at a startup, they're much more likely to work twenty hours a day or to push the limits of what's possible as opposed to when they have a nine to five salaried job.
Indeed, many times people have no choice but to do so, because it's difficult to get started when you're forming your own business.
But when you have lots of people working their hardest in this way, the country is much more productive.
You're going to see more economic growth because people are innovating and creating new ways to be productive, and also just because people are being more productive.
And at the end of the day, that's what you need for economic growth: innovation and productivity.
And we get that better if we encourage people to become self-employed for all of the reasons that I've just described.
Our second argument is about why this is important for low-income communities.
Generally speaking, when you think of entrepreneurs, you're probably imagining middle class people who have degrees from good universities, who are going on to start their own business, or working class, union-type people, who are starting contractor businesses.
Unfortunately, not a lot of people in very low-income, especially urban areas, start their own business, because there's a lot of barriers against them.
As a result, many of these communities are underserved by businesses.
They don't have enough grocery stores.
They don't have a lot of businesses except for barber shops and nail salons, because that's all that banks will lend people money to start.
On our side, if you provide microfinance and things like that to let people start businesses, you'll see a boom in business in low-income communities as people see a chance to better themselves.
And the best thing is that if you do this, you'll create a secondary effect where they employ more people in their community.
This will reduce unemployment and also bring capital into these areas that right now are starving for capital, which will increase outside investment as well.
This can lead to things like urban renewal and a higher standards of living for people who live in blighted communities.
We think that this is important because it's a way for the government to encourage people to help their own community rather than a way for a top-down bureaucracy to try to help people.
On our side, we just facilitate the grass roots growing, and we think that's more likely to be successful than telling people what to do and how to do it, because of the entrepreneurial spirit that we described before.
For all of these reasons, we should promote self-employment.
Thank you.