We should not ban gerrymandering.
On our side, we're going to argue that state government should be free to draw the boundaries of congressional districts as they see fit.
This is how the US government was set up under the constitution, and it's what's worked for the last several hundred years, so we don't think there's any reason to change it.
We're going to give you two arguments for why we should not ban gerrymandering.
The first is that there are actually times when gerrymandering is really important to having a representative democracy.
If you consider the voting rights act, which was a bill passed in the mid-nineteen sixties in order to give more rights to african americans and put an end to discrimination that was keeping them from voting, you'll see that the voting rights act actually requires gerrymandering.
One of the most famously gerrymandered districts in the country is in north carolina.
It runs between the cities of greensboro and charlotte, and it's very long and snaking and clearly has no geographical basis.
The reason that it exists is because this was the only way to create a majority african-american district in north carolina.
Under the voting rights act, there was a requirement that states create majority african-american districts if they had disenfranchised black people in the past in order that there would be african americans getting elected to congress.
And indeed, we see that majority black districts are generally the only ones that have black house of representatives members.
This is unfortunate but true, given the state that we live in, and I think it's part of the reason why southern states are more likely to have african-american representatives than northern states, namely, that they're required to gerrymander to a certain extent in order to fulfill their voting rights act obligations.
So with this in mind, I think that if you got rid of gerrymandering and had every state switch over to a computer system like what california uses, you would see a huge drop in the number of african-american representatives from southern states, in particular, that had the voting rights act in the past.
We think that although gerrymandering might mean that people are grouped based on some arbitrary characteristic like race, ultimately we're willing to accept that given the benefits that this can have for minority representation.
And I think the other side needs to explain how, if they give state governments another way to draw these boundaries, they're going to get the same type of representation without using something that works exactly like gerrymandering or how they're going to avoid disenfranchising african americans or other minority communities.
And our second argument is that what is and is not gerrymandering is cultural and arbitrary.
The other side might argue for geographic borders or for a computer-drawn system, but that's no more or less arbitrary than having state representatives go through and draw the boundaries of congressional districts.
If you have a computer do it geometrically, then you're going to see towns cut in half so that people don't have the same representative as their neighbor.
You're going to see counties in traditional divisions completely ignored.
And if you use geographic barriers, well, it's completely arbitrary if I live north of the charles river or south of the charles river.
So at the end of the day, we don't see why this is better.
The other side might say that many state governments are malicious when they draw these boundaries, but we think that the solution there is to have better state governments that draw these boundaries with good intentions, which most states probably already do, not to get rid of the process as a whole.
Moreover, I think that state governments will find a way to manipulate any sort of computer-based system or geography-based system.
For instance, if they don't like the first result that they're offered by a computer, they might throw it out and keep rerunning the algorithm till they get a result that seems reasonable and quote to them, which basically has the same effect of letting state governments decide how they want the voting districts to look.
On our side, we've explained to you why this would be bad for minority communities and why ultimately it's arbitrary to punish gerrymandering.
For all these reasons, gerrymandering should not be banned.
Thank you.