We should not get rid of marriage.
We think that's while it's true that marriage is somewhat antiquated and that it's associated with religion, ultimately there's no reason to get rid of it.
Our first argument is that right now people have more choice than they would if you abolish marriage.
If sam chooses not to get married that's his business and if another person chooses to get married that's their business.
Ultimately we would prefer to give people more choice rather than less.
We think that the best thing the government can do is facilitate people living the type of life that they choose to live.
Ultimately when you step in and tell people that they can no longer get married, you're taking away something that's very important to a lot of people.
And sam might say oh but we can still have marriage in the church but it won't be recognized by the state.
At that point the government isn't really respecting people's lifestyles.
We think that inasmuch as many people a majority of people indeed are married that ultimately we ought to respect the fact that they live in this way and have economic reality match social reality, and that includes things like different tax statuses for married people.
Now sam might point out that that some people aren't allowed to get married in some jurisdictions but we think that the solution there is to broaden marriage, not to get rid of it entirely.
Our next argument is that ultimately the popular will is to have the state recognize marriage.
Even in countries where there's huge amounts of tension over how marriage should work such as whether gay people should be able to get married, whether there should be polygamous marriage, etcetera no one is really talking in the public sphere about getting rid of marriage and to the best of my knowledge there is no country in the world that doesn't have marriage and there never has been.
Ultimately, we think that states derive their legitimacy by fulfilling the will of the people who live within them.
So if you refuse to implement something that's tremendously popular, something like ninety percent of americans will get married at some point in their life, and if you get rid of something that's a cultural universal every country in the world has marriage then you're not reflecting the will of the people.
It would be different if there was a huge coalition trying to get rid of marriage but that simply isn't the case in the world today.
So we think that the best thing that you could do is to have a middle ground policy where people can choose to get married or not to get married without penalty.
Ultimately that would maximize freedom as I've already told you about but would also follow the popular will because people would be making the best decision for themselves and no one will be denied the opportunity to do what they wish to do.
Ultimately the problem I think with the other side of this debate is that they have to explain to you why marriage is bad in itself.
It may be true that marriage has a patriarchal history and it may be true that it's associated with certain religions but that doesn't make it a bad thing in itself because ultimately what's bad about it then is its association with patriarchy or religion and if we divorce marriage if you'll allow the turn of phrase from religion or from patriarchy by modernizing it then we can escape from the problems that the other side has told you about.
So we would suggest that marriage is something that can absolutely be saved through reform and that doesn't need to be abolished entirely.
We think that this is a really radical proposal that hasn't adequately been explained by the other team and they need to do a lot more work to explain why two people choosing to unite some of their property and change their last names is the end of the world because ultimately that's all marriage has to be in a civil society.
So because we better uphold personal liberty, because we better reflect people's actual will on how they put their lives, because we better reflect economic realities and social realities ultimately we should not abolish marriage.
Thank you.