We should not abandon social media.
So this evening we're arguing that people should continue to use social media if they like to do so and not feel any pressure or think that this is ultimately bad for them.
One thing I'd like to say briefly before I get into my two arguments is that tim blames social media for a decrease in productivity.
But I'd like to argue that he's conflating two problems here.
People may be more distracted at work or at school today than they were in the past, I'm not sure if that's true but it certainly may be, but if it is true, then it's because of access to technology and information rather than social media.
As an example, I might get distracted looking at the score for a football game in class just as easily as I might get distracted by twitter.
So I don't think the problem is social media in itself so much as the ability to distract oneself using technology.
So, with that said, two arguments: the first is that people enjoy social media, and that's a perfectly good reason to use it, and the second is that it's better than other social technology.
So, first, people enjoy social media.
This is pretty self-explanatory.
The reason why people are on facebook, twitter, or other social media, presumably, is that they gain something from it.
And we think that most often that's some sort of enjoyment.
People like talking to their friends about sports, even if they can't meet up at the pub that weekend.
People like to see their cousins baby shower pictures, because they couldn't be there and they're glad that they're able to participate in this way.
You'll see a common trend here that social media let's people accrue some of the benefits, not all, but some of the benefits of other types of social interaction when they're not able to participate directly.
So we tell you that ultimately people have an obligation to themselves and to others to try to be happy when they aren't harming anyone else.
People who are happy make better friends, husbands, fathers, etcetera, and ultimately are also more productive members of society.
So at the end of the day, we think that if people gain some happiness from social media that even if it might be better if they spend all their time reading dostoevsky or the economist, that ultimately this isn't such a bad thing that people spend millions of dollars on things that are actively bad for them to try to be happy, like alcohol and cigarettes.
So social media is really harmless by comparison.
If anything, we should want people to be twitter addicts rather than drinking beer every day, because it's better for their health and the people around them.
So ultimately we think that if people enjoy social media, it's more or less harmless, so the benefits that they gain outweigh the supposed harms of people using social media in the long term.
Our second argument is that social media is better than other social technology.
What do I mean by this?
Now I am told, by those who are older and wiser, that before the internet people used to send letters and postcards and things like that to communicate.
So, people were already thinking about how to stay in touch with friends, relatives, etcetera in other cities long before we had smartphones that made social media possible, like we have it today.
So social media fills the same gap in people's lives that other forms of technology used to fill.
It's just better at it.
It's easier, cheaper, more efficient, and more satisfying to send a facebook message than a telegram, for instance, I can imagine.
So we think that when the other side says we should abandon social media, what they're saying is we should return to less effective, more expensive technology to do the same thing, and that's not a winning case for their side.
I think that the other team needs to explain to you how social media is different, not only in quantity but in quality, from other types of media.
And they'll say, " oh, it's distracting.
Oh, some people are unhappy when they see pictures of their friends having fun. "
But people were distracted waiting for letters and phone calls, I'm sure.
People were jealous of their brother when they saw a picture of his new car before twitter existed.
So at the end of the day, I don't think the harms they describe are caused by social media but rather by human nature, and therefore we ought not abandon social media.
Thank you.