We should not subsidize primary care.
By this we mean that the government shouldn't step in to subsidize people seeing their general practitioner or going in for their annual physical, that sort of thing.
We're going to explain to you how this is unnecessary, how there's a trade-off with other types of care that more urgently need subsidies and how this leads to a misuse of resources, medical resources in particular.
So first, we think that it's unnecessary to subsidize this type of primary care because it's already very affordable in general.
For most people in the united states, seeing their primary care physician cost about twenty dollars out of pocket if they have health insurance and maybe forty dollars out of pocket if they don't.
Now it's true that this does present a barrier to some people but considering that most people probably see a primary care physician once a year at most and more likely once every few years, we don't think that this is actually a substantial barrier to anyone getting the health care that they need and what's more, if people do need to care, we think that access to small amounts of money like that is pretty widely available even in communities that are fairly low income.
So we just don't see a huge need for this type of subsidy.
Yes, it would be nice if it was free to go in and see your general practitioner but I'm going to talk more later about how that would lead to abusive behaviors.
With this in mind, the second thing we'd like to talk about is the trade-off with other more expensive types of care.
We think that generally subsidies should be allocated to the types of care that are least accessible to ordinary people.
In other words even if only one in a hundred people needs chemotherapy because it's so expensive that no one could afford it without help, we think that this is where the government should focus its subsidies and I don't mean just on cancer treatment but any comparable kind of therapy that's so dramatically expensive that no ordinary person could afford it.
We think that because there is this trade-off between funding more expensive care and funding something that's already very accessible, in other words because money is fungible, the government ought use its funds in order to promote these more expensive types of care rather than to subsidize primary care and I know the other side of this debate is going to say " oh but governments have huge budgets and they should spend money on doctors instead of bombs ".
The fact remains that there is only a certain amount of money in the budget in any given year for health care.
So the trade-off here isn't likely to come from the air force, it's likely to come from other types of health care.
So if you introduce subsidies for primary care, you're probably going to see a decrease in funds for other more expensive, less accessible types of care or at the very least, a reduction in the growth of access to those types of care and because those tend to be more life saving, we think that that's a better use of the state's funds overall.
And our final argument is that if you subsidize primary care and make it free or extremely cheap, people are going to misuse it.
There are a lot of stories from when britain had a free primary care for a few years about elderly people, for instance, who didn't have a lot of social interaction going to the doctor because they just wanted someone to make a cup of tea and have a chat with them.
Now obviously providing for the social needs of the elderly is important and it's something we as a society need to do a better job of but if you remove the barrier to accessing primary care, people will use it too often because there's no reason for them not to.
You know maybe I'll go in if I have a hangnail.
At the end of the day, you might laugh and think people's time is valuable to them but the fact remains that people are much more likely to take this seriously and treat it as a privilege even if it is a right but therefore to respect it more if there is some cost involved and we think that a subsidy can remove that.
So for all of these reasons, we should not subsidize primary care.
Thank you.