We should limit executive compensation.
What we say is that the pay of a CEO or a CFO should not exceed the pay of the average employee at their company by a factor of more than ten or fifteen rather than being dozens and dozens of times higher, as it is right now in the status quo.
We have two main arguments for our side this evening.
The first is about the need to reduce income inequality.
Income inequality in highly developed countries today is higher than it has ever been in the entirety of human history.
Even during feudalism, there wasn't as big a gap between ordinary people and the wealthiest people as there is today.
This should come as no surprise since technology has made it easier to accumulate more and more wealth, while we haven't seen a similar increase in salary for ordinary workers over the last forty to fifty years in the most highly developed countries.
Income inequality is a threat because it undermines social stability.
At a certain point, if there is too large a gap between the rich and the poor, you're much more likely to see political violence.
But what's more, it also undermines democracy.
When eight people are wealthier than three hundred million people in a country, then those people have such an outsized influence on the political process with their money that the democratic will of the other three hundred million people who live there simply doesn't matter.
This is already an enormous problem in the united states and it's growing larger in many european countries as well, and if something isn't done, this seems like it's going to be the fate of every democratic country.
By limiting executive compensation, you make it impossible for some people to be tens of thousands of times wealthier than other people, since right now, the most common path for someone becoming a billionaire is to be an executive at a finance company.
We think that, ultimately, we can limit the amount of income inequality in the future and that this will lead to more social stability overall.
Our second argument is that this would encourage good corporate governance.
Right now, corporations are producing more than they ever have before, but much of this isn't being reinvested back into the corporation.
In other words, rather than take runaway amounts of production and invest it into better technologies, cleaner technologies, or the future, we see that executives are compensated at astronomical rates, while the companies themselves don't receive any reinvestment.
If you limit the amount that we can compensate executives, that money has to go somewhere.
There are a few possibilities.
One is that this money would go to the shareholders, but we don't think that's likely since they're already receiving massive profits from these companies.
We think it's more likely that either: you would see an increase in salary for other employees, this seems likely because executives would then make more money, since it's a factor of a multiplier and also because this money is lying around, or that the money will be reinvested into things like capital, technology, and research that will make the company healthier in the long term and make it less likely that in the future they would need a bailout or other public help to stay afloat.
So we think that there are only benefits in place for the other actors involved in the situation: for shareholders, for employees, and for the companies and the public, ultimately this can only be a good thing because it shifts resources away from a handful of super rich executives and towards everyone else.
So because this would reduce income inequality and promote social stability, and because it would encourage good corporate governance and reinvestment in either your company's capital or its workforce, we should limit executive compensation.
Thank you.