We should not end mandatory retirement.
So something that I think is missing from sam's speech is context about where and when we see mandatory retirement.
One country where mandatory retirement is pretty common is germany, where there are different mandatory retirement ages for different professions, and those ages are set with a lot of input from unions or professional groups that represent employees from that profession.
So it's not just something being set by government.
And this isn't something being done arbitrarily by dictatorships either, it's common in a lot of central european countries.
So our first argument is that mandatory retirement is fundamentally fair.
I think this is really the crux of all of sam's arguments: it's his perception that it's unfair to make people stop working.
But I think that it's obvious that this is a more complex issues than that when you consider that one person's employment denies someone else the ability to hold that position.
We would argue that mandatory retirement is important to help young people have the opportunity to work.
One of the effects of the vastly better medical technology we have today than a century ago is that people can continue working well into their seventies, but as a result that means that fewer new opportunities open up for young people to enter into professions.
This means that for a lot of professions, such as the professoriate, there are very few opportunities for young people to get involved, and this means that there's less and less new blood coming into those professions as the same people can keep a stranglehold on ideas and the way that work is done for long periods of time.
We think that mandatory retirement is fair because it prevents one generation or one group from monopolizing a profession.
We think it's important that new ideas and new people be allowed to enter into these professions, and we'd argue that no one has a right to work for as long as they want.
Where would that right come from?
Plainly not from convention since in many countries, like germany, this is something that's been done for centuries under many different types of government.
We also think that there's an important distinction between younger and older workers, because older workers have had time to make provision for their retirement.
For instance, in many countries, like germany, they'll have a pension.
They've had an opportunity to make savings, to buy a house, to provide for their family and all of these things that younger workers haven't been able to do yet.
So we think that we should defer to helping out younger workers who are financially worse off rather than older workers who have had time to save and are often kind of adding to the wealth they're going to have in retirement, rather than just meeting their needs.
Under this, we'd also argue that age shouldn't be a protected class.
Age is different than something like sex or race because everyone is going to go through every age in their life, at least, you know, assuming they don't have a premature death.
We think that, for instance, current young people will one day be old and that current elderly people once benefited from these programs.
It seems quite hypocritical for people who benefitted from mandatory retirement in order to begin their own careers to then pull out the rug under the young people of today because they don't want to retire.
And lastly, we think that with input from different stakeholders, like unions and professional groups, that governments can set a fair age.
If the retirement ages now are a bit too low in countries like germany or czechia, then they can be changed rather than abolished altogether.
The second main point we would make is that this creates more of a norm of retirement.
Many americans never plan to retire and will never have any sort of leisure time after the end of their childhood.
When you have mandatory retirement and have an expectation that everyone retires at sixty five or sixty seven or whatever, this ensures that people do have that leisure time and don't spend their entire lives working, which we think gives them more time to spend with their families and with their loved ones rather than at their desk for their entire life.
For all these reasons, we should not end mandatory retirement.
Thank you.