We should adopt teacher tenure reform.
So this debate is about tenure for primarily secondary school teachers in countries like the united states.
Presently in many school systems, like the one in chicago, teachers have tenure.
Which means that after they've worked at a school for a certain number of years they can only be fired for sort of gross misconduct.
Otherwise, generally speaking, they keep their jobs no matter how well they perform or what they do.
Two arguments for why we need to reform teacher tenure.
And by reform we mean make it easier for principles or school boards to remove teachers who have been at a school for a long time.
So two arguments.
First: this aligns the incentives of teachers with those of society and allows us to reward good behavior.
What do I mean by this?
Right now if you're a teacher who has tenure you don't really care if your students are succeeding.
Maybe you're a good person and you became a teacher for pure motives, and we certainly think that's the case for most people, but there are also people who become a teacher and don't really care if their students learn anything.
Maybe they just read out of the book in class or they show movies, etcetera.
But we tell you that by introducing tenure reform, suddenly you can make it so that teachers only succeed if their students succeed.
In other words you can attach things like salary increases or job security to certain performance by students on standardized or local testing.
What this means is that suddenly teachers have every reason to try to teach as best as possible.
Right now the only motivation that teachers have is intrinsic.
To do a good job because they care about the kids.
In our world, suddenly there's extrinsic motivation as well.
Namely the possibility of gaining bonuses or having job security.
And as an aside from this I'd like to point out that in our world we can reward good teachers.
We don't just have to punish bad ones.
We can give people bonuses if all of their students get into college, things like that.
Something that can't happen right now because tenure prevents us from awarding the good teachers as well because we're spending all of this money on the bad teachers.
And this leads nicely into my second argument about how this would improve the financial state of schools.
So the way that teachers salary generally works is you start out making a pretty low salary and then if you stay at the same school for a long time eventually you make a very high salary.
So what that means is that right now we have lots of elderly teachers who don't have a lot of incentive to care about the students who are collecting large paychecks.
Meanwhile there might be younger teachers who are better qualified or more able to actually invest themselves emotionally in helping their students who can't get jobs because we can't fire these older teachers.
We have to wait for them to retire.
So in our world we tell you that first of all, we could lay off teachers who are not performing and hire new teachers which would save money because we're getting more bang for our buck, so to speak, from a better teacher.
But on top of that, that it's more likely that we could hire young teachers to replace older ones who are no longer, you know, up to date on a certain field or no longer performing at a high level.
This is some huge impacts because money is so fungible within the school system.
If we spend less money paying bad teachers, and recognize, this isn't just a matter of paying someone ten thousand dollars more than someone else to teach algebra.
There are teachers in new york who can't be fired but who are so bad that they sit in a room all day and get paid for it.
To do nothing.
So we can get rid of people like that and reinvest that money into hiring people like special needs teachers, like ESL teachers, to fill gaps that we have right now in our education system.
At that point we think this will be a clear good for the children who should have our foremost consideration, because education exists to benefit them and secondly for the school system as a whole, because they can allocate resources more effectively.
So for these reasons we should institute teacher tenure reform.
Thank you.