We should do not adopt the metric system in the united states.
One thing I'd like to point out, before we get into this debate, is that it's only about the customary units people use in their day-to-day lives.
Doctors and scientists already use the metric system in the united states, and engineers use it when necessary, so we can see that, in any technical instance when the metric system is actually superior to the customary system, people already use it.
This debate is only about how people refer to things in their day-to-day lives, so when I give my height and weight at the doctor's office, for instance, rather than if I were trying to build a bridge.
With that in mind, we have a few arguments: first that this is simply unnecessary.
The only requirement for a good system of measurement is that everyone has a good picture of it in their head and understands how it works.
So, while the customary units may seem quaint and outdated to people in other countries, they work in the united states, because everyone here knows how long a foot is and how big an inch is.
And while it's true that it might be easier to divide by tens with the metric system, people who grew up with the customary system have no trouble calculating how many inches are in a foot and, therefore, how many inches are in a yard or even a mile, if you press them on it.
So, inasmuch as that's the case, we think it would actually be worse to switch over to metric.
Why?
Most americans, even if they know how the metric system works in principle, would have a hard time using it in their daily life.
I know about how tall I am in metric but it would be much harder for me to measure, say, the distance that I drive to work using kilometers rather than miles, just because I'm not used to it.
And for older people who didn't learn the metric system in school, like my parents, it would be much more difficult because they don't even have that basic level of knowledge of the metric system that younger people have.
And for units that are harder to gauge by sight, such as weight, many people just have no sense of how big those units are, and it would be a huge shift for people culturally to switch over.
Now the other side will be quick to say that every country in the rest of the world has already done this but, really, to what benefit?
It's not like the united states is suffering in trade because we don't have the metric system, which might have affected some smaller economies.
So I just don't see why the harms of being on the customary system outweigh the benefits of everyone already knowing the system of measurement that we generally use.
Our second argument is that switching over would just be expensive.
There are thousands of highway signs and units in the united states that would have to be changed if we switched over to the metric system.
Everything in the country would have to be relabeled and, in many cases, the existing signs and labels would be continued to be used for decades if they didn't have to be replaced.
So we can see that this would be a huge expense.
And given that, as I've said before, we already use metric in the few instances when it's clearly better, such as science and medicine, I don't see any real benefit here.
The other side might go on to say that it's actually a good investment in your country's future but if we're never intending to switch over, then I just don't see how that's the case.
And our final argument is that people don't want this.
The american people have absolutely no interest in switching over to metric.
Most people are perfectly fine using the customary units.
We think that democratic society should reflect the desires of their people as much as possible.
Even if washington DC technocrats want to switch over to the metric system as a prestige thing, if the american people don't see a good reason to do it and there's no pressing public interest, then we don't see any reason to impose this on people.
We think that it would be undemocratic and that it would create a huge amount of backlash against the government.
Americans are already notoriously distrustful of anything that the government does, and I think that imposing the units many people call call commie units, as a joke or not on the country, would go over extremely poorly, that there would be backlash against the state, and not a lot of buy-in into this very expensive program.
So for all of these reasons, we should not adopt the metric system.
Thank you.