We should not prohibit carrying a concealed weapon.
I just want to point out, in this debate, I think our burden is to argue that in places where this is currently legal, it should not be banned.
So we think that this should be allowed in texas or florida, where it's legal right now, not that germany or france need to introduce this policy where they don't already have it, because this debate is about prohibiting it, so that presumes that this is already legal.
That said, our first argument is that this is much safer than open carry.
In places where concealed carry is culturally a norm, people are going to carry weapons no matter what.
You can see that some jurisdictions in the US don't allow concealed carry and only allow open carry and, as a result, you have people openly carrying handguns.
We think that this is much worse than concealed carry.
First of all, it makes people much more anxious and uncomfortable in public.
If I'm in dallas, texas, and I don't know that people around me have guns, I can just enjoy my day and go about it not worrying that some cowboy is going to pull out his gun.
But if everybody has a gun on their hip, it's something that I can't not see.
I think this would introduce a lot of anxiety for most people and make them feel less safe in the public sphere, even if the number of guns actually decreased because these permits might be harder to access.
We think that because there's less of a perception of safety that this is really bad.
But also, concealed carry is probably better because no one else can touch your gun, because people are less likely to be constantly checking their gun and therefore to pull it out.
We just think that there are fewer accidents that are going to take place when people have to conceal their weapon by, say, putting it under a shirt and a jacket or something like that.
Our second argument is that concealed carry is going to happen no matter what.
You could change the law in texas but that doesn't mean that people are suddenly going to stop carrying guns, when people in their community have been carrying guns for a hundred and fifty years or even longer.
We think that given that, we shouldn't implement this policy, because it's unenforceable.
The only way to prevent concealed carry would be to have stop and frisk for every citizen who enters a public building, and clearly that's not possible, or at least it's not something that the public would tolerate.
We think that it's generally a bad thing to pass laws that are unenforceable for a few reasons ; first of all, because when people break them, it undermines the respect for the law.
They think, " oh, I can do this and get away with it, so there's no reason for me to worry about following the law, " and that sort of thing.
We think that's really harmful.
It undermines people's respect for the law.
But we think that aside from that, it also becomes a way for the police to just trump up charges.
They can pick someone up without probable cause and then say, " oh, look, they had an illegal concealed weapon, therefore we can send them to jail, " even though what we did was actually highly illegal.
We can see that the police use these kind of unenforceable laws to trump up charges right now for drugs, and we think they very likely would do the same thing for firearms in a world where you prohibit concealed firearms.
And our last argument is that at least sometimes, the knowledge that there are concealed weapons around prevents violence.
In areas where lots of people carry guns, we think that, generally speaking, people are very hesitant to carry a gun and use it to hurt someone on their own.
This is probably why there are a lot of mass shootings at schools and churches versus at gun shows, because people think that they'll be safe from the people around them.
Even if it's not true that a good guy with a gun stops a bad guy with a gun, the way the NRA likes to tell you, there must be some deterrent effect to the knowledge that other people around you could be armed compared to the certainty that they aren't if you don't see a weapon.
So for all of these reasons, because it's safer than open carry, because it's going to happen anyway, and because it can have a deterrent effect on violence, we should not prohibit concealed carry.
Thank you.