We should not end mandatory retirement.
So we have three arguments for our side.
The first is about the need for the government to intervene and to require people to retire in some instances.
And he model that I have in the back of my head is that in germany, for most forms of employment, people have to retire at sixty-five.
It's not like the united states where it varies tremendously from industry to industry, and where it's up to every single employer.
Generally speaking, everyone in germany has to retire at sixty-five.
So I think that the reason why this intervention by the german government is justified, first of all, is because the elderly people who are working lack perspective on why they need to retire from for societal good.
So we're okay with the government intervening, generally speaking, when there is an imbalance in knowledge or power between two groups.
And we think that, generally speaking, if you are an older person who works you don't know what you don't know and you don't see what you're not doing.
If you become too old to fulfill some of your job's duties, most often they're being assigned to someone younger.
If you lack training or education that didn't exist when you were going through school, then you're probably unaware of the extent to which you don't know how to do your job.
So we think at that point that it's important that someone steps in and sets a bar for when we expect people to retire so that, first of all, this isn't arbitrary and second of all, individual short sightedness doesn't harm entire businesses, universities and other organizations.
But I think even more importantly, there's a clear third-party harm, and we think the state should intervene to prevent third parties from being harmed by people's decisions.
If older people don't retire, younger people can't move up the career ladder to take their place.
So necessarily this keeps young people out of senior positions because, generally speaking, the longer you've been somewhere the more senior that you are.
So, there are going to be no young people as senior professors or c-level executives or other high level positions if older people never retire.
So, first of all, we think that's unfair to those younger people who aren't able to move up because there's no positions for them, even if they're very deserving.
But moreover, we also think that older workers are more likely to be from dominant groups.
In other words, senior professors who are sixty-five or more likely to be white men whereas younger professors are more likely to be people of color or women, because those groups have only more recently been able to participate in the workforce.
So we think that ultimately you help out disadvantaged groups when you introduce this mandatory retirement as well as younger people more generally.
Our second argument is that mandatory retirement ages are better for organizations.
In the united states and some other countries, you can't fire people for being too old to do their job.
It's called ageism and it's illegal.
So what that means is even if you have someone who is obviously too old to keep teaching, they they don't remember things as well, they're getting bad reviews on performance reviews, etcetera, you can't fire them just because of side effects of aging.
So what this means is that organizations have to have lower paid less senior people do the work of higher paid more senior people.
At that point, you have a lot of dead weight floating around and you're not allowed to fire them because of silly laws.
So we think it would be better to have mandatory retirement because, yes, some people can work until they're eighty in some jobs, but that's a small minority of people.
Most people really need to retire long before that so we think that although you can argue about where the line should be, there should be a mandatory retirement age to keep the people who can't keep working from doing so to everyone else's detriment.
And our last argument is that the other side has to explain to you in this debate why we should get rid of mandatory retirement ages, even when they're obviously important.
They might say, " oh, insurance claims adjusters and professors can keep working well into their seventies. "
Well, that's well and good for them, but there are other jobs like police officer where you can't really keep working even into your late sixties.
It's too physical.
So they have to explain to you why we can't have mandatory retirement, even when people obviously become unable to do their job simply as a factor of aging.
For all these reasons, we should not end mandatory retirement.
Thank you.