We should not further exploit solar energy.
So just to be clear, we're going to engage directly with tim's model.
Tim says that we should devote all of the resources that currently go to fossil fuels or non-renewable energy and put them into solar power.
We think that this is absolutely preposterous for two reasons: first of all, because solar power is not the best alternative energy and second of all, because this just isn't practical for many societies around the world.
So our first argument about why solar power isn't the best alternative energy simply relies on the fact that solar power varies greatly in efficiency from country to country, right?
Costa rica and egypt are very sunny, iceland and russia are not, yet russia is one of the world's largest consumers of energy.
But it goes beyond the fact that some places are sunny and some places aren't.
It's also very difficult to store and transport solar energy.
Now, battery technology is likely to one day solve this problem, but the production of batteries is tremendously damaging to the environment, and we don't think that it should be what we rely on to solve our problems.
If the other side's model is " make better batteries " and then ship them out from arizona to massachusetts, which is not a very sunny state, then ultimately that doesn't really solve our problems.
After all, the production of batteries is still going to cause immense pollution.
Rather, we think that we should focus as much of our energy as possible into safe nuclear technology.
It is mind-boggling to me that nuclear energy has existed since my grandfather was a young man, and yet today it produces only ten percent of the energy in the united states.
France is the only country in the world that has acted responsibly in this way.
I believe something like a three quarters of french energy comes from nuclear power.
We have extremely clean, extremely efficient technology available to us.
And what's more, people worry about safety, but new technology that already exists, like liquid thorium reactors which are being built in china, can solve for all of the concerns people have about nuclear meltdowns.
So we say solar power just doesn't make any sense in a world where we can split an atom and fuel an entire city.
And when there's no risk of meltdown because of advances in nuclear technology, that's what we need to invest more into.
We should be building reactors in the united states and shipping them to sub-saharan africa to fuel development, rather than encouraging people to put their help into useless solar power, which leads nicely into my next point, which is that solar power just isn't practical right now.
I live in los angeles and right here, it's true that solar energy is competitive with traditional types of energy in terms of providing people with cheap access to power, but that's simply not going to be the case in most of the world.
In major sunbelt US cities, this is likely going to be true that solar power is really great.
But in lagos, nigeria, which is one of the fastest growing, largest cities in the world, this simply isn't practical.
Most of the world's megacities today, like jakarta, like karachi, are not in the developed world.
They're very rapidly growing, developing world cities that need power right now, and they can't afford to wait for advances in solar technology.
And what's more, putting solar panels all around these megacities doesn't make any sense, because they're growing every day.
Putting modular nuclear reactors in these cities on the instead of solar power in order to encourage these cities to use electricity efficiently and not have to have brownouts and the like would be a much better solution.
And the other side might worry about nuclear proliferation, but liquid thorium reactors can't be used to produce plutonium, so there's no risk of nuclear weapons being built in indonesia or pakistan, which already has nuclear weapons, just because we help them develop more nuclear power.
So for all of these reasons, we say put your money on nuclear power, solar is just a gimmick.
Thank you.