We should increase student financial aid in the united states, a topic that is near and dear to my heart, I assure you.
We have two main arguments for our side about why we think more financial aid should be available but, first, what does this look like?
We think that rather than the federal government offering more loans or grants than they do right now, that universities need to offer more financial aid, particularly universities with large endowments.
I've gone to tufts university which has a billion dollar endowment and only five thousand students, and I received financial aid, but it certainly could have been more generous, and the university of california, which has a two billion dollar endowment and a hundred thousand students or something like that, and could also be more generous given that it has this money.
So we want these funds to come from universities rather than from the government.
That said, we have to main arguments.
The first is that college is now required for students in the same way that high school used to be.
Yes, it's true that many people go on to have successful careers working in trades and the like without a college degree, but the average job in a western country now requires that you go to college, and a college diploma is treated as just a proof of your competency in the way that for my parents' generation, a high school diploma was.
A high school diploma doesn't get you anything nowadays.
We think that because this is necessary for someone to be a fully fledged functional member of society if they're from a younger generation, in the same way that high school used to be, that there needs to be the same access that high school used to have, right?
A hundred years ago, it cost money to go to high school, and then it was made completely free.
We think that perhaps that's less likely to happen with college in america right now, because this is such a big business.
We do think that colleges have an obligation to increase access so that their students are able to go on and become successful, because this isn't just about getting more people to go to college, it's about letting people graduate.
Less than half of the people or fewer, I should say, than half of the people who begin a university degree in america graduate.
Oftentimes, this is because of financial stressors, because they're working a lot or because they're not able to afford their education.
So if we dramatically increase financial aid by diverting money to financial aid from other sources, we think more students will graduate and be able to get the education that they need to work.
Our second argument is about how this breaks down class barriers.
Right now a lot of financial aid is given to people who aren't really needing it.
Sometimes it's given for merit which we think is really bad, because the people who are most likely to have good high school grades and win merit aid are the wealthy, but we also think that you can help to break down class barriers when you allow students to go to the best universities.
Now, the best universities in america tend to have the best financial aid anyway.
So, right now, we have a class structure where if you are very smart and get good SAT scores, you can go to college very nearly for free, like many of my peers were lucky enough to get to do, and if you're a b student, you have to pay a huge amount of money to go to college because you're not able to get into those very low cost universities, like harvard, which is actually free for the average american.
So we think this is creating a new class.
There was a great atlantic article called " the new aristocracy " that talked about this, but we think that you can break down that barrier by making financial aid accessible to average students, who also have to go to college, remember, but are saddled with a lot of debt for a worse degree right now.
So by increasing access to financial aid at ordinary colleges like umass boston or other schools that aren't as prestigious but still give people an important education, we can prevent a new aristocracy from developing around the graduates of the country's best universities.
So for all of these reasons, I am proud to say that we should increase student financial aid in the united states.
Thank you.