We should not ban foreign workers.
On our side we would argue that a healthy economy includes workers from many different countries around the world and that countries like the united states or germany that presently have large numbers of foreign workers should certainly not ban them.
Our first argument is that the presence of foreign workers indicates that there is a demand for their labor.
Let's consider, first of all, that there are certain costs to hiring foreign workers.
In the united states, for instance, you have to pay for them to get an expensive visa in order to come to this country and be approved to work.
In countries in the european union, it might be true that people can move from eastern europe to western europe in order to work, but there are still certain costs with getting these people up to speed with working in your country.
So we can see that companies must feel that it's worth paying these costs in order to bring in these workers and the reason for that is that they are looking for people to do jobs that they can't fill.
We see, for instance, that many times engineers come from countries like china and india to the united states, and the reason why people are willing to bring in these engineers from other countries is that there is an insufficient number of qualified workers in the united states.
Many populist politicians point out the fact that there are unemployed people in our own countries and therefore that we shouldn't look abroad for workers, but what they neglect is that an unemployed factory worker probably isn't immediately ready to pivot into being a chemical engineer at a pharmaceutical company.
There are different types of work that need to be filled and if the only way to fill those jobs is to look abroad, clearly we ought let companies do so, because the alternative is that either companies move their production abroad, where they can actually afford to hire these workers or find these workers, or the jobs go undone and we don't get all the benefits of that productivity.
The other aspect of this, aside from the kind of skilled labor that we've looked at so far, is agricultural work.
If you've eaten an apricot or a peach from the united states, which I believe most of both come from the US, depending on where you live, that it was almost certainly picked by an immigrant worker from mexico.
The fact of the matter is that essentially all agricultural harvest in the united states is done by guest workers from mexico.
These are the jobs that americans just won't do, to use a sound bite from a few years ago, and the only way that countries like the US or many european countries could maintain their huge agricultural output is to bring in foreign workers.
If you look at a little country like the netherlands, for instance, it doesn't have a lot of people but they have a huge agricultural output.
The reason why is that they're able to bring in guest workers in order to help with their harvest.
If you got rid of the ability to do that, you would lose out on the ability to fill the demand for fruit and that would be a bad thing for that country.
This leads nicely into our second argument which is about how foreign workers increase your country's GDP overall.
Your country's GDP or gross domestic productivity is an important measure of economic health.
It indicates the total output of all of the production in your country for that year, and it seems intuitively obvious that if you have more people working that you'll have a higher GDP.
There's a reason why countries like china have massive GDPs and countries like, well, the netherlands, again, have relatively smaller ones, although the netherlands is still a wealthier country than china per capita.
If you have more people working and doing labor, then you produce more value and this effect also feeds back into itself.
If you're able to have more productivity, then more businesses can open to take advantage of that productivity and more technology is likely to be developed to increase the productivity of those workers.
So what we can see is that on our side, we better fill the demand for labor, and we also increase a nation's economic output overall.
For all these reasons, we should not ban foreign workers.
Thank you.