Big government should not be abandoned.
I'm happy to take tim's definition that this is a principle debate about whether or not we should have large, highly centralized governments but the way that I'm going to approach this debate is to show you some instances when we need big government and then explain to you why that demonstrates that principally we should want big governments.
So our first point is about the provision of services.
There are certain services that are just more efficient if they're highly centralized.
The most obvious is buying health care equipment.
The reason why it's much cheaper to get say medicine or medical services in countries with universal health care than in the united states is because all purchasing is centralized.
So what this means is that there's only one buyer and everyone has to sell to that buyer so the sellers can't just go to a different buyer to sell their product if they don't like the price.
The buyer is able to dictate the price to everyone.
This is something that governments are really good at.
It they want to purchase something and they are the only purchaser of that good, then they get to dictate the price and this can drive down the price of essential services for everyone.
Ultimately something that's very expensive like a highway network for instance can only be constructed using this type of purchasing power.
So in our world when we have more big governments it is easier for us to actually set up large infrastructure projects or two to provide services like universal health care than it would be on the other side when they get rid of big government and rely on some other institution, more on that in just a moment, to provide these things in its stead.
Our second argument is about development.
Ultimately the only proven path to development is with a planned economy.
To my knowledge, no country including britain ever developed without a certain amount of state planning for how that development would take place.
In the twentieth century we saw that many countries used either planned socialist or capitalist economies like countries in eastern europe for instance or south korea in order to go from being poor and backwards to being very wealthy.
Even the first wave of countries to develop like the US, britain, and france still used government planning of infrastructure in order to create development.
So we think it's clear that the only way for a country to get more developed is to have the state intervene to ensure that development takes place.
Given that billions of people right now live in under developed countries we think that this is an extremely important priority and that if big governments are good for underdeveloped countries then principally we ought to support them.
But even wealthy countries can still develop more.
Not every part of the united states has access to clean drinking water or electricity for instance so we think that there's always room for more big government to increase development even further and that this is especially true in areas where it's unprofitable to develop like rural mountainous regions for instance.
Those people probably would never see the benefits of development without a strong central government that can afford to spend on them.
And our last point is that the alternative to big government is probably worse.
Namely it's not going to be a bunch of mutual aid societies like tim seems to think it's going to be a bunch of meta national corporations who do whatever they want.
Ultimately if the government isn't the most powerful actor in society, some other group will be.
The government is the only democratic institution in society so necessarily this other actor will not be democratic.
So the trade off is between having the most powerful actor in society be a large democratic government, however imperfect it may be, I'm willing to concede that these governments do not adequately represent people's interests but they're preferable to a corporation that's only beholden to their shareholders for instance.
For all these reasons, big government should not be abandoned.
Thank you.