We should not protect animal welfare.
On our side, we're going to argue that governments should not concern themselves with the well-being of animals.
We think that, in the status quo, oftentimes there are many private organizations that promote animal welfare, such as the royal society for prevention of cruelty to animals in great britain, and we think that those organizations do a great job and should continue.
What we're concerned about is governments.
So our first argument is that the role of government is not to promote animal welfare.
Why is this true?
Well, first let's ask ourselves what governments do.
We think that, generally speaking, people come together to form a nation and form a government.
So it's something that's formed by a convention of human beings.
Those people give up some of their rights and freedoms that they might have in the absence of a government in order to get protection and services from that government.
So, basically, people give up some of their freedom and some of their money in order to get back services and legal protection from the government.
You'll notice that animals don't play any part of this.
Animals have no conception of the state and aren't a part of forming this convention, and even though we're used to thinking of states as geographic areas, really states are groups of people.
So we see that animals are, necessarily, not part of the state.
And I think that's important, because government shouldn't be concerned with anyone who isn't part of that state.
In the same way that we see that states aren't generally concerned with people living in other countries unless their own citizens choose to be interested in those people, we don't think that states should get involved with animals, unless their citizens choose to help those animals.
Now you might say most people want us to protect animal welfare, but we think if that's really true that we would be better off to frame to groups like the royal society for prevention of cruelty to animals rather than relying on government to do it.
We don't think governments are well equipped to promote animal welfare, and we think it's better, generally speaking, to defer to private groups rather than having the state take action since when the state acts, it compels everyone to be involved, whereas people can choose to give money to the RSPCA and similar organizations in their own country.
Next, our second argument is that we think there's a tradeoff with human rights when you promote animal welfare.
Government money is fungible.
All of the money that you spend on animal shelters, for instance, is money that isn't going to homeless shelters.
This is something that really irritates me about the place that I live, los angeles.
There's tons of money available for animal shelters, and yet there are thousands of homeless people in the city who have nowhere to go, and people seem to care a lot more about dogs than they do about human beings.
When there is a real tradeoff between human rights and animal rights, using the logic of my opponent, we need to always defer to humans, because humans have an experience that is fundamentally different than that of an animal.
Moreover, I think we also need to defer to protecting human beings because they're part of the state, as I discussed earlier.
So I think, because of this tradeoff, that money that we spend on helping animals would always be better spent helping the homeless, or the elderly, or children and similarly disadvantaged groups.
And lastly, I think government intervention in animal welfare is just unnecessary.
First of all, the government is just going to make laws that reflect what most people believe is true.
So, if most people think it's bad to beat your dog, then it will be illegal to beat your dog in that state.
But it's really difficult to enforce these laws so, essentially, you're just relying on people to do the right thing, and the government is just signaling what is or isn't virtuous.
But don't you see that if most people already agree that this is or isn't virtuous, then they just won't beat their dog to begin with, and that's the only enforcement mechanism?
If that's true, then the government getting involved doesn't really do anything.
And the other side might say you can call the police, but that is a whole host of other problems.
For all these reasons, we should not protect animal welfare.
Thank you.