We should privatize ports.
What do I mean by this?
We tell you that ports are just what they sound like.
It's where you load unload ships.
There's a huge amount of infrastructure that goes into this process such as cranes in places where ships can dock and infrastructure to deal with containers.
So these can be massive industrial centers that employ huge numbers of people and in most areas, especially in the united states, these are publicly run.
So you have, for instance, the port authority of new york and new jersey that runs the new york city ports.
There's a combined port authority for los angeles and long beach.
Those are the two biggest ones in the united states but we see similar ones around the world as well.
On our side, we think that when they're owned by governments that they should be sold off to private operators rather than operated by the government directly in the future.
So our first of three arguments this evening is that governments are ill-suited to run these ports.
Government bureaucracies have no special knowledge about what it takes to run a port and what the shipping industry actually needs.
Government bureaucracies are often very conservative and unlikely to change anything with an attitude that if it ain't broke don't fix it but unfortunately, oftentimes that means that they fall behind and fail to adapt to the needs of the industries that they claim to serve.
There are many reasons why this is problematic and we'll come back to that in just a moment, but we think that ultimately the biggest problem with having the government run these ports is that there are actors who just know better how to run them.
We think that in our world, it's very likely that you would have a handful of companies buy up many ports and that as a result they could consolidate bureaucracy to reduce overhead and also share expertise and knowledge from larger and smaller ports.
It might be the case that new york city has a well run port.
I don't know if that's true, but we can imagine but that other smaller ports like baltimore are less well run.
Again, we can imagine.
And if that's the case we can share expertise between the well run and less well run ports and help to improve them to ultimately drive down the cost of shipping as a whole and I think that that's the biggest impact in this debate.
If we can drive down the cost of shipping, we can reduce the cost of almost every consumer good and this has huge benefits for everyone in society especially those who need cheap consumer goods because they're low income, or fixed income, and can't afford to pay higher prices.
Our second argument is that port management is just a poor use of state funds.
All government money is fungible.
If we don't spend it on one thing we'll spend it on another.
We think that at a time when governments are struggling to pay for things like education and healthcare, that they should prioritize these essentials over auxiliary expenses like managing ports and airports.
On our side, we would prefer to let private entities take on the day-to-day cost of maintenance and not worry about doing it for governments especially since governments tend not to see a huge amount of revenue from this.
We're still okay with having taxes on things that enter through the port but we think that the cost of maintenance and any profit from operating the port itself should be privatized so that governments can focus their resources on essential goods.
And our final argument is that this would ultimately lower shipping costs.
I've already mentioned why this would be good, but I want to explain more clearly why it would be the case.
If ports are privately run, then now you can negotiate port-to-port on where you want to bring your goods much more easily.
If a port is owned by the city of new york they don't have any real incentive to cooperate with you because why does the city of new york care if a big shipment of pens and pencils from china comes in through their port instead of through baltimore?
They probably don't have a big incentive to make money especially the bureaucrats who managed this.
Where as a private port has much more incentive to be profitable and therefore they'll do everything they can to drive down shipping costs so that people will ship through their port and this will help everyone.
For all of these reasons, we should privatize ports.
Thank you.