We should subsidize condoms.
So, by this, we mean that we think the state should give away millions of condoms every year.
They should be put for free in places like schools and community centers, medical clinics, anywhere that lots of people are likely to be, where they might be comfortable taking one of these condoms.
We would be fine with purchasing these in bulk.
Many universities already do something similar, and we don't think that the cost would be very high.
Two arguments for why we should do this: the first is to reduce the rate of teen pregnancy.
Right now, one of the main reasons that teen pregnancy is so high in some areas is because young people are unaware of how birth control works or unable to take advantage of it.
We think that subsidizing condoms would have two major impacts to reduce this problem.
First, we think that if condoms were freely available everywhere, perhaps with an information sheet about their use provided, that more young people would understand how to actually use condoms effectively in order to prevent pregnancy, so you wouldn't have people engaging in behaviors that might break condoms or otherwise make them less effective.
But moreover, we also think that you could remove barriers to access.
Many young people might feel uncomfortable buying condoms or might be unable to buy condoms if they live in a very conservative community or if they have conservative parents, but as we all know, young people are still finding ways to have sex, even if their parents or adults around them don't want to.
So regardless of their community mores, we need to get this kind of education and information out to them, as well as access to condoms, and we do that much better by giving them away for free rather than requiring them to purchase them at the store, which ultimately poses a large barrier for some people.
The impact of all of this is that there would be fewer unintended pregnancies and fewer teen pregnancies in general.
And because women who get pregnant as teenagers are much less likely to go to college or to have high-paying, successful careers, we think that it is imperative that we do something to reduce the rate of teen pregnancy.
Our second argument is that this would reduce the spread of STDs.
One of the main reasons STDs spread right now is because people aren't taking precautions to prevent them.
We think that if condoms were freely available or available very, very cheaply that, first of all, many more people would use condoms just because one of the barriers to their use would be removed, and therefore fewer people would spread STDs in that way, but also because it's a sort of daisy chain effect.
If one person doesn't get an STD because they used a condom while having sex, then all of their future partners won't contract an STD from that person.
So the benefits don't just accrue to one person from one instance of using a condom, but also to all of their future partners as well, who now won't get an STD and also who might be more likely to use a condom with that person.
We think that there are several major impacts to this.
One is that it would reduce the spread of potentially life-threatening diseases like hepatitis or HIV, so we think that obviously this would both save many people's lives and also prevent very expensive medical costs from being incurred by the state.
But we also think that if you reduce the spread of STDs, that ultimately they're likely to be controlled in a given population.
For instance, there are many countries around the world where diseases like hepatitis simply aren't a problem.
It's possible if you have everyone in the community practicing safe sex that these STDs will cease to be a problem in your community entirely.
We think that that's a reasonable goal and one that can be better achieved by subsidizing condoms than not doing so.
For all these reasons, preventing teen pregnancy and reducing the rate of STds, we should subsidize condoms.
Thank you.