We should not ban smoking.
On our side we recognize that smoking is unhealthy, that it kills people, and that it would probably be better if no one smoked.
That said, we don't think that it's within the government's right to ban adults from smoking.
Let's talk a little bit about when the government can make decisions on people's behalf.
The first instance would be if there are third party harms, so if my action hurts other people.
It's clear that this is true for smoking in public, that secondhand smoke can be seriously harmful to other people but we think that that's a reason to ban secondhand smoke.
We think that the law ought be as unrestrictive or be the least restrictive that it's able to be and therefore that we should just ban the types of smoking that have secondary or tertiary harms namely secondhand smoke.
Therefore, we can ban smoking in public.
We would also be okay with the government banning something that has an information asymmetry, that is to say, where one party knows something that another party doesn't and takes advantage of them but we don't think that's the case with smoking.
That may have been the case with smoking seventy years ago before it was widely known that smoking caused cancer.
But today everyone is well aware of the risks and we think that people can make their own decisions freely about whether or not smoking is good for them.
We're okay with the government running anti-smoking campaigns to make sure that people have this information and in fact we think that's a really good idea but we don't think that's a reason for the government to ban smoking.
And the last instance would be if there's like a compelling state interest.
So if something poses a threat to the public or to national security but it seems pretty clear that smoking doesn't meet that definition either.
So we don't think that the government would have a leg to stand on if it came to banning smoking.
We think this would be a textbook case of the government trying to tell people how to live their lives and what sort of morality to impose on themselves and to be frank, we think the government is a poor arbiter of that.
If you think back to prohibition movements of alcohol in the early twentieth century you saw governments forcing their own morality and a majority viewpoint on other people and we think that banning cigarettes today would be much the same and that just as it was unjust to ban alcohol in the early twentieth century, so it would be to ban smoking today.
But our second argument is that this has a lot of classist undertones.
In most western countries today wealthy people are much less likely to smoke than poorer people.
So effectively, a smoking ban is tantamount to the wealthy, privileged class who largely determine who is in government ordering less well-off people to live their lives in a certain way.
Why is this problematic?
First, we think there's a huge divide in the lived experience of those who support the smoking ban and the people who make laws and the people who actually smoke.
People who don't work two shifts every single day probably don't understand how much it helps someone to be able to go take a cigarette break and get that boost from a cigarette.
We think that people are rational when they make their decisions and that there's probably a reason people smoke namely that they like it or that it helps them get through their day and we don't think that people who come from a completely different background should be able to dictate to lower class or working people or immigrant communities what is in their interest and what they ought to do.
We think that the government should absolutely inform people but not presume that what's best for one group is what's best for everyone else and not presume that people could get by without smoking as easily in every community.
For all of these reasons, we oppose a ban on smoking.
Thank you.