We should not abolish nuclear weapons.
Before I get into my arguments, I'd just like to point out that the period since the second world war has been much more peaceful than the period immediately before the end of the second world war.
Rather than constant war in europe which drags the entire world into a mess, we've seen relative peace around the globe and I think that nuclear weapons have tremendously contributed to this era of peace.
That leads nicely into the first of our two arguments which is about how nuclear weapons make great wars impossible.
Formerly, great powers had very little incentive not to go to war.
If germany and france were at odds then they could go to war and kill a few million people and hopefully one side would get what they wanted and be able to solve their differences.
Today, it's impossible for great powers to go to war because if they did they would certainly be destroyed.
Mutually assured destruction which evolved as a result of the existence of nuclear weapons ensures that great powers will never go to war.
The united states and the soviet union were every bit as diametrically opposed as any two powers in history have ever been and a war between them probably would have killed hundred and fifty, two hundred million people if we take world war two and scale it up to the relative power of the parties involved.
The reason this didn't happen is that any soviet invasion of europe or US encroachment on soviet territory would have been met with a nuclear strike that would have killed essentially everyone in america and the soviet union.
The cost of war has finally become so high that even the most hawkish decision makers, those who care not at all for the lives of their soldiers, still cannot advocate for war between great powers.
As a result, we've seen the development of other ways for great powers to solve their problems namely through attracting allies, through attracting proxy states and through the united nations.
If we were to abolish nuclear weapons, then there would be no reason for great powers to avoid war.
After all, you might say oh but war is so costly and people don't want to go to war but that has always been true.
Wars are almost never worthwhile for the aggressor and always have tremendous costs.
Yet we see throughout history almost constant war in europe and remember that european wars drag in the rest of the world because of alliance networks and the legacy of colonialism.
So if you were to get rid of nuclear weapons, it seems quite likely that we would return to the normal state of affairs, constant war, and that hundreds of millions of people would die.
Even if nuclear weapons are frightening they are better than the certainty of hundreds of millions of people dying and therefore we need to keep them around.
But our second argument is that publicly known nuclear weapons are better than secret ones.
Unlike in the nineteen fifties, nuclear weapons are no longer cutting edge technology.
Any highly developed country can easily create nuclear warheads and can probably do so in secret.
This is why the nonproliferation treaty doesn't mean as much as it did fifty, sixty years ago.
As a result of this, we tell you that if you ban nuclear weapons countries that want to use them for a first strike or to prevent invasion are going to do so secretly.
This means that people will no longer have the security of mutually assured destruction because the weapons aren't public.
They're necessarily secret but they'll still have the risk of a nuclear holocaust.
So we think that this is really the worst of both worlds.
The risk that nuclear weapons bring without the security and stability that they bring.
So we would prefer nuclear weapons to be public rather than private and for all of these reasons, we should not abolish nuclear weapons.
Thank you.