We should not adopt blasphemy laws.
I'd like to point out that blasphemy laws were extremely common in countries which now have free speech protections like the united states or britain or germany before the last hundred hundred and fifty years but that they've completely fallen by the wayside in western countries.
I think there are a few main arguments here.
The first is about the establishment clause, the second is about free speech, and the third is about the harm that blasphemy does.
So first of all, the establishment clause.
This is the name for the clause of the US constitution that forbids the establishment of a state religion and many other countries around the world have similar constitutional provisions against favoring one religion over another.
The reason why blasphemy laws violate this idea that's essential to liberal democracy that all religions are created equal, is that blasphemy laws will never be applied equally to every religion.
Almost every action could be seen as offensive to some religious group.
We think that it would be impossible for the state to protect every single religious minority from blasphemy.
So what that means is that this is going to be applied to protect powerful, religious majorities or large minorities.
So for instance in a country like germany this would probably be applied to protect the catholic church much more often than it will be applied to protect the rare mormon found in germany or the rare zoroastrian.
So this would actually just become another tool of the wealthy and the privileged to enforce their ideas about what culture should be like on everyone else and we think that's unacceptable.
At the end of the day, the other side can choose to present this as protecting religious minorities but those groups would never have the political capital to actually influence the government to protecting their religion.
So I don't think that this will actually come about.
Secondly, freedom of speech.
We think that principally people have a right to be offensive and hateful in their speech.
There is a difference between speech and actions.
This is why we're okay with banning an actual call to violence but not banning for instance blasphemy.
Calling on people to attack muslims or jews is very different than insulting the muslim or jewish religions or taking the name of god or the prophet mohammed in vain.
We don't think people should do either but at the end of the day, since there's no physical harm that the state can assess and assess a damage to in blasphemy, we don't think that the government should be in the business of regulating it.
Yes, this is something that's unpleasant and something we'd rather people not do, but frankly it's not a crime to be unpleasant and it's not a crime to insult other people's beliefs.
The other side needs to show that there is a real physical harm to blasphemy and they won't be able to do that because there isn't.
This is things like taking the prophet mohammed's name in vain, like the charlie hebdo magazine in france not calling for islamic anti-islamic violence.
So we just don't think that the other side has a leg to stand on in terms of the principles that we generally use to limit free speech and finally, we'd like to talk about the actual harms of blasphemy itself in a community.
Yes, people would probably rather not be around blasphemy, but I think it's rare that this actually has a serious negative effect on anyone's lives.
If people don't want to read charlie hebdo magazine then don't.
No one's making them do it.
No one makes you watch late night comedy shows that are more likely to be blasphemous than things on before nine o'clock.
This is something that is easily avoidable and moreover, we think that it's something that actually causes valuable conversations about what is and is not acceptable in society and how we treat different religious groups in society.
So we think there's actually a substantial benefit that outweighs these very marginal harms.
For all these reasons, we should not ban blasphemy.
Thank you.