We should not end agricultural subsidies.
I'm going to explain to you why it's important that we continue agricultural subsidies especially in developed economies.
The other side portrays this as an issue of food production but what we actually tell you is that this is a matter of where food is produced rather than the quantity.
So first, why is it important that we protect domestic production because necessarily that's what agricultural subsidies are about.
Enough food to feed the world will be produced whether or not the united states or the netherlands or other rich countries have food subsidies.
The question is whether any food at all would be produced in the absolute wealthiest economies like the netherlands where food production is probably more expensive than it would be in china or in india.
We tell you that this is important because there are large industries in these countries that depend on having local food production.
For instance, the netherlands is famous for its cheese.
If there was no cattle farming in the netherlands there wouldn't be any cheese production in the netherlands either and you might say that people should bear the cost of more expensive dutch cheese but then that comes into a problem of the fact that nobody would purchase dutch cheese if prices rose too high.
So we can see that sometimes it's necessary to have agricultural subsidies in order to protect other industries within your country because without this domestic production those industries become impossible.
Another good example of this would be ethanol in brazil.
The brazilian government subsidizes sugarcane production and it's then used to make ethanol which is a very profitable export good but if brazil ceased to subsidize sugarcane than either brazil's ethanol would be too expensive to export or perhaps brazil would have to import sugarcane from other countries at which point again, the cost of their ethanol would go up or other countries would replace brazil as one of the world's leading producers of ethanol.
So you can see that it's not as simple as just ending a subsidy to one industry.
In fact, there's a cycle of dependence and kind of a connection between many different industries that would be lost if we ended these subsidies and our second argument is about maintaining a country's independence.
It's rightly seen that having domestic agriculture is important to maintaining a country's independence.
One of the great lessons of the two world wars is that if the entire world imports food from the united states then whichever countries the united states aligns itself with will always win a conflict.
It's true that today many more countries are massive food exporters than they were in world war one or world war two and it's also true that a large conflict seems unlikely.
But the fact remains that from a perspective of national security, importing an enormous percentage of a country's food is very unwise.
It leaves your country dependent on favorable trade policy from your neighbors.
It leaves your country dependent on the political goodwill of wealthier countries in times of economic downturn.
So we can see that it is absolutely a threat to a modern country's stability and well being not to have domestic food production and you might say that countries would naturally produce food even without these subsidies but that's absolutely not the case in many wealthy economies or countries with inferior land.
If you think about comparative advantage, the idea that some countries produce a particular good better than any other country and that those secondary countries produce goods better than that country.
Countries like germany or iran are never going to produce food as well as countries like australia or the united states because of their land and the resources that are available to them.
So we need subsidies to overcome this comparative advantage that a free market would have and for all of these reasons, it's clear that we should not end agricultural subsidies.
Thank you.