Freedom of speech is not absolute.
So, what we're going to argue in this debate is that although freedom of speech is certainly one of the freedoms which we hold most dearly, in liberal countries we think that there must be limitations on that freedom of speech.
So, our main line in this debate is going to be that freedom of speech ought be limited when it conflicts with the rights and safety of others.
So, we're going to tell you that there is a hierarchy of rights.
In order for people to access their right to participate in democracy, to bear arms, to freedom of speech, they need to have bodily security.
What this means is that we think that it must be a higher order right for people to have bodily security then for them to have speech, since without the one they cannot access the other.
With this in mind, we're going to tell you that principally, we think that we should limit freedom of speech when it comes into conflict with the safety of other people.
We think that a really good example of this is that you can't yell fire in a crowded movie theater in the united states, even though this country has very strong legal protections for freedom of speech.
The risk to others of lots of people trying to crowd out of a movie theater ultimately outweigh the benefit you would receive from use of this speech.
We think that furthermore, directly inciting violence against someone, such as calling for someone to be executed, would also be an instance of a violation of someone else's most basic rights and therefore an instance when we ought limit freedom of speech.
A much more controversial application of this is that our side, we're principally okay with defending laws against hate speech.
We think that first of all, to give a brief definition, hate speech would be speech that derides a race or religion, in in very harsh terms.
We think that the reason why were okay with banning this, even though we wouldn't consider the same speech to be violent against a majority or powerful group, only the against a minority or disempowered group, is that there is disproportionate harm to hate speech.
What do we mean by this?
When you criticize in extremely harsh terms a minority religion, say, like muslims in the united states, these people are at much greater risk than another religious group such as christians in the united states, because they are less able to speak up for themselves and because they are more vulnerable to violence from the majority.
Similarly we see that were okay with limiting things like racial hate speech because there's a long legacy of racist violence in this country, and we think that ultimately there is a disproportionate harm to the african american community of some speech which might be acceptable if applied to, say, white people in america.
So ultimately we're okay with defending bans on hate speech because we think that we need to protect these minority groups or disempowered groups from disproportionate harms.
Our final argument is that we think that, to some extent, limitations on free speech are necessary for the functioning of a civil society.
For instance, on our side we are okay with forbidding juries to discuss what happened while they were secluded.
Obviously if you had absolute freedom of speech then jurors would be allowed to talk about seclusion, about which juror voted for innocent and which juror voted for guilty, all of these things.
But we see that in order for the trial system to function it's necessary that people are able to operate with a certain amount of security.
In the same way we're okay with limiting the rights of soldiers to talk about their operations even if those would be of interest to other people.
We have systems like top secret, we have officers who can order their subordinates not to talk about certain issues, and we think that all of this is necessary to the functioning of the state.
So at this point we think that because freedom of speech sometimes conflicts with the rights of others, that the freedom of speech is not absolute.
Thank you.