We should fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
Since they were first developed, nuclear weapons have been a scourge on the world.
They present one of the first ever existential threats to human beings that's within our control.
Because of their incredible power and their ability to change the climate, nuclear weapons have the potential to drive the entire human species extinct or to wipe out the lives of billions upon billions of people.
In the past we've relied on the idea of mutually assured destruction to protect us.
Essentially the idea that if america used nuclear weapons the soviet union would respond and vice versa so that neither of them could feel confident enough to use their weapons.
But today nuclear proliferation has caused this idea, this theory of mutually assured destruction to break down and as a result we're all in more danger than ever.
Two main arguments for our side: first, about why this is an existential threat and second, about why proliferation will only increase with time.
So I've already explained to you that this is an existential threat but why is that the case?
It's not just a problem that nuclear weapons can easily turn a city the size of new york or london into a smoking crater, it's also the way that they change the weather.
Nuclear weapons have the ability to throw up huge amounts of debris into the atmosphere much like a volcano which like a huge volcanic explosion will cause less sunlight to reach the surface of the earth.
This will lower global temperatures overall, a process called global cooling.
When you combine this with the massive amounts of nuclear fallout that we could see from a nuclear war, it's clear that most of the world's land will no longer be able to produce food or to sustain wildlife in the way it does right now.
This will lead to billions of people starving and unmatched damage on our wildlife and ecosystems.
As a result, we could effectively see a mass extinction event on the level of the one that killed the dinosaurs because the effect on the atmosphere would be quite similar.
So you can see that this isn't just a problem for people in america or people in the former soviet union.
This is a problem that could affect everyone on earth including millions of people who had nothing to do with the nuclear war that begins billions of people, in fact, who had nothing to do with the war that begins.
So we think that ultimately because this could destroy not only humanity but also huge parts of the earth's ecosystems, that these weapons have to be destroyed.
There's no way to use them responsibly so they must go.
But secondly, we tell you that proliferation will only increase with time.
First, I wanna say why this is a bad thing.
It's because the more parties have nuclear weapons the more likely it is that someone uses them.
That's straightforward enough.
But why is proliferation only going to increase?
Well at first, nuclear weapons were a closely guarded secret and only american scientists and british scientists and then later the soviets had access to these secrets.
But in the seventy years since they were first developed many scientists around the world have come up with ways to develop these weapons as we've seen in countries like israel and pakistan.
So it's clear that it's easier and easier for scientists to discover how to build nuclear weapons and also for countries to produce the fissile material that's needed for them to work and as proliferation increases, it's going to be less and less responsible actors that get them.
Many people were worried when pakistan got nuclear weapons because it's kind of a failed state, that might be a little unfair, but not a great state.
But in the future we could even see non-state actors or pariah states like north korea go fully nuclear and as a result the risk of nuclear war grows higher and higher and the doomsday clock ticks closer and closer to midnight.
So because nuclear weapons pose a threat unlike anything ever seen before and because the likelihood of their use will increase as proliferation does, we must fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
Thank you.