We should oppose water privatization.
We think that even using rachel's model, whereby governments license out water companies or allow private companies to operate and distribute water in the community, that it would be preferable to have public companies fill this role instead, as we see in most places right now in the status quo.
We have three main arguments: the first is about access, the second, unsurprisingly, is about cost, and the third is about foreign control.
So, first, why do we think this will lead to an erosion of access over time?
One of the really good things about public water companies is that they're legally obligated to serve everyone, and they have no incentive to fight against this.
For a municipally-owned water company, it doesn't really make a big difference that they're required to serve people, even if they make a huge loss providing water to rural people or people in certain areas.
Why?
Well, none of the staff have any obligation to care about the company making money, and the company itself isn't run for profit and can be subsidized by the government if it loses money so, at the end of the day, nobody has any incentive to cut off service to people who cost an unusual amount to provide service to.
Why is this different for a private company?
Well, private companies have an obligation to make money for their shareholders or, if they're privately owned, their owner presumably wants to make as much money as possible.
So these companies will try to weasel out of providing access to water to people who live in rural areas or people who are more expensive to provide water to.
You can imagine that maybe somebody who lives on a mountain is more expensive to provide water to than somebody who lives in a city, for instance.
So we think that these people are likely to lose access over time and that this is probably going to be gradual and will happen in such a way that the company can act like they're not doing anything wrong.
For instance, they can just offer worse and worse access to water over time until, eventually, the infrastructure hasn't been maintained, and then say that they can't provide water because there's no infrastructure.
And in doing this, they can basically cut people off while avoiding any legal ramifications.
We think this wouldn't happen with a publicly owned company, and therefore we think would be bad to privatize water.
Our second argument is about why it's bad that cost will go up.
Rachel concedes, in her speech, that costs will go up.
Let's talk about why that's a problem.
Water is a fundamental human right, and there's no way that people can live without access to it.
And moreover, the harms of having people drink dirty water or getting water from an unsafe source are enormous for public health, because people will get diseases like cholera that've been basically eradicated in the developed world if they don't have access to clean water in their homes.
Rachel says that if costs go up, that'll encourage people to conserve water.
But we think that, most of the time, people don't really control their water use, first of all, because this is very inelastic demand.
People have to have water to drink, and to run their toilet and their shower, and to clean their clothes, and they can't stop doing those things.
But, moreover, we just like to push back on the idea that it really matters how much water individuals use.
The enormous majority of water use is industrial, and most waste is industrial.
So even if every individual cuts their water use by twenty five percent, that's not going to solve the water problem in areas like los angeles that have huge droughts.
So we just don't think we should be placing a burden on these people by making them pay more for an essential good.
And, finally, we think that in many developing countries, these water companies are going to be bought up by foreign investors.
These people have no incentive to promote the good of the community.
I think the best case for the other side is to imagine that local investors will provide water who don't want to hurt their community.
But if american companies are providing the water in bolivia, they're just going to ring as much money out of the people as possible and not care about the service whereas, presumably, a local company would be more invested in those people's well-being.
For all these reasons, we should not privatize access to water.
Thank you.