We should phase out disposable or thin plastic bags.
So, essentially, this is a debate about the type of bags that you might get at the corner store when you go pick something up: these very thin, flimsy plastic bags.
We think that they should be banned over time.
We the way we would do this is, first, by introducing a bag tax where you have to pay ten cents or something to get a bag and then gradually banning them altogether.
We have two main arguments for why we need to do this: the first is about pollution, and the second is about why we need to encourage the use of better alternatives.
So, pollution.
The problem with these bags is that they eventually end up in places you don't want them.
People throw them out and they go to dumps and then end up in the ocean, or people just leave them on the ground and they blow around and end up in the ocean, but either way these present a big problem for marine ecosystems.
One great example of this is the effect they have on sea turtles.
Everybody loves sea turtles.
One of the main foods for sea turtles are jellyfish.
That's one of the main things that they eat.
And if you think about what a jellyfish looks like underwater versus what a walmart bag looks like underwater, you can imagine how it's very confusing if you're a sea turtle.
You've got this little blob-shaped bag, and one of them is food and one of them will kill you.
So lots of sea turtles eat plastic bags, and these block their intestine or otherwise kill them.
So, as a result, these pose a big threat to the sea turtle population.
And while that's kind of a cute animal that we all love, these also have a negative effect on many other animals that eat jellyfish or that live in the ocean.
Similarly, this plastic can break up into tiny particles which have gone on to form this massive island of garbage we've all heard about in the pacific ocean, and that can then lead to big filter feeders like whales consuming the plastic and, again, getting cancer or experiencing blockages and dying as a result.
So it's clear that there's a massive effect that this has on marine ecosystems.
And I think that's probably sufficient reason to ban them right there: is that they have a very modest utility to us and a huge harm for these sea creatures and, plainly, we want to keep those creatures around so we need to do something, and that, in this case, means getting rid of plastic bags.
But our second argument is that if you ban plastic bags, you'll encourage the use of recyclable alternatives.
Right?
Almost every store is willing to give you a paper bag right now but people don't take them, because they're slightly less convenient than a plastic bag.
But the big difference for the environment is that it's very easy and cheap to recycle paper whereas it's actually impossible, I'm told, to recycle these plastic bags.
So we think that if we, first, discourage people from getting a plastic bag through a bag tax, like you see in many american cities today, and secondly, encourage them to get paper instead, because it's cheaper, and then ban the alternative, that everyone will switch over to recyclable bags.
This means that even if we can't get away from a culture that uses too many disposable bags, we can at least use a better disposable bag.
Now the other side might say in response to all this that, first of all, there are other sources of plastic that pose a problem for sea life, and that's true, but this is a pretty substantial contributor and, moreover, it's one that we can so easily get rid of that there's no reason not to.
And secondly, the other side might point out that people need to move away from disposable bags altogether and that this doesn't really solve the problem.
But it's much easier to get people to switch over to recyclable or biodegradable paper than it is to get them to stop expecting a bag everywhere altogether.
Yes, we should all be taking a reusable bag to the grocery store and, yes, we shouldn't use so much plastic and paper in our takeout food but, at the end of the day, that's the culture that we have, and it's easier to slightly reform that culture rather than expect it to completely change overnight.
For all of these reasons, we should ban the use of plastic bags.
Thank you.