We should adopt blasphemy laws.
Blasphemy laws are laws that forbid people from for instance, insulting a religious figure or intentionally violating or causing someone else to violate some religious code.
So if you remember the charlie hebdo comics that caused all that trouble in france a few years ago because of how they depicted the prophet mohammed or similar comics that have existed over the past few years, we think that things like that should probably be made illegal.
We're not going to ban people from saying you know god damn and other things like that that have kind of seeped into general western culture, but we think that when someone is intentionally being blasphemous to provoke outrage or to offend someone that's when we want to step in and ban it.
I think that that intent to cause outrage or to offend a particular religious group is what we're trying to stop on our side of this debate.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that this will encourage respective minority religions.
Right I don't think it's a coincidence that the most famous instances of blasphemy causing problem in a community in recent years have been for islam and european countries.
So we've seen that many islamic communities have been highly offended by very blasphemous portrayals of muhammad or blasphemous statements made about islam.
I don't think it's a coincidence that this group is being targeted more than dominant religious groups with the intent to cause offense and the other side might say " oh well plenty of people do this about the catholic church too " but I'd point out that tends to be in protestant majority countries as well so the effect is actually similar.
But I think that the reason why we see minority religious groups being targeted is that although this isn't a racial prejudice necessarily, I mean many muslims are white living in white countries there is still a bias against these communities and people want to make them feel unwelcome because they don't want muslims to assimilate into their society.
So I think that it's clear that the intent here is to belittle and threaten a community not just to go after one particular belief system.
In other words it's not like the people making the charlie hebdo comic have some deep theological objection to some tenet of islam, rather they just want to make muslims feel unsafe or uncomfortable and in the same way that we would ban in most western countries speech that intended to make a racial group uncomfortable, for instance, we might prevent someone from publishing a magazine cover that betrayed black people in a very racist way, we need to do the same thing to protect minority religious groups.
After all, religion is for most people an immutable trait the same way that race is and it needs to be protected in the same way therefore.
But our second argument is that this would also limit inter-community violence.
So we've seen, for instance as a result of those charlie hebdo comics, a lot of violence between different communities that I think could be prevented with these speech laws.
Now it's true that no speech should prompt someone to violence but ultimately in the same way that we see the doctrine of fighting words, the idea that sometimes someone is threatened or put in a position that forces them to be violent, I think it's clear that there is speech that is created with the idea that it will cause another group to become violent and that that's something that we probably need to ban in the same way that we ban riotous speech, for instance.
So it seems clear to me that if one of the intentions of portraying the prophet mohammed doing sex acts or similarly vulgar things involving islam is to provoke the islamic community into going out in the streets and rioting in paris, then it's clear that that type of speech should be banned because it's intended to cause crimes and to cause people to be violent.
So this is actually quite consistent with existing laws.
So I'd like to close with the idea that what I'm proposing here while a blasphemy law is quite different from the laws we saw in the old conservative european governments and more like the hate speech laws we see in the EU today.
For all these reasons, we should implement blasphemy laws.
Thank you.