We should not ban smoking.
We're going to explain first, why we think it's wrong to punish poor people disproportionately and second, why we think people should be free to make this decision.
So why is banning smoking essentially criminalizing poverty?
If you look at who smokes in the united states and other wealthy countries, it's overwhelmingly low income people.
Why?
Well these people are more likely to work jobs where everyone smokes so it's a cultural thing and also to be less well informed about the harms of smoking.
So we think that effectively this is just placing attacks on the poorest people in society.
If you ban smoking then many low income people are going to be arrested for smoking, for trying to sell cigarettes etcetera while middle class people will be unaffected because they already don't smoke.
This would just be one of many policies that criminalizes the lifestyle of low income people because it's distasteful to middle class people who think that they know better.
But I would argue that it's actually rational for some people to choose to smoke right?
Cigarettes are a powerful stimulant, they're pleasant, they're a social experience when you smoke with other people.
I think there's a good reason to smoke especially if you don't think that you're going to live into your seventies or eighties and be affected by cancer.
It's just not the government's place and it's not middle class moralist place to decide what other people do especially people who have a radically different experience than their own because of poverty.
If you have a good job and live in the suburbs you just don't know what it's like to work two shifts at a mcdonald's every day.
This is really physically demanding, it's something that requires you to constantly be alert, and we just think that these people have such different experiences from the people making laws that it would be unfair to criminalize their lifestyle and you might say that this is about protecting people from harm.
But alcohol is certainly just as bad for people and causes many more social harms so why not ban that?
Well, middle class people like wine so alcohol is never going away.
So I think it's clear that this is something that's absolutely based on class discrimination as much as anything else.
But secondly, we think that adults can make a meaningful decision and that the government shouldn't opt in.
Let's talk about when the government can make decisions on people's behalf.
The first instance would be if there's a third party harm.
Yes it's true that smoking in the form of second hand smoke does have third party harms but we think that there are less restrictive ways to prevent that such as by setting up designated smoking areas and making sure that everyone knows where those are.
We think that it's better to use a less restrictive means because that way we can maximize people's freedom while eliminating these third party homes as well.
We also think the government might get involved if there were some sort of imbalance of power or unequal access to information.
But at this point everyone knows that cigarettes cause cancer.
You probably heard them called cancer sticks before.
This just isn't something that's super surprising and even though marlboro and other cigarette companies have a lot more power than their consumers, at the end of the day they can't really hide any information from them.
The days when no one was really sure if cigarettes cause cancer are long past and people learn about the risks in school today so it seems unlikely that this would meet that standard.
And lastly, we think the government can intervene and paternalize if there is a compelling state interest but it doesn't really hurt people's ability to work or function as citizens if they smoke so we don't think there's any reason for the government to get involved there.
You might say that people would be less fit for public service but remember that every single soldier in world war two smoked.
Clearly people can perform public service even if they smoke.
So we just don't think that there's a good reason for the government to limit an adult's decision.
So I've explained to you why this is just a way to criminalize poverty and a certain lifestyle and why the government should stay out of this matter.
So for all these reasons, we should not ban smoking.
Thank you.