We should not phase out the use of disposable plastic bags.
On our side, we're going to argue, first, that it's better to tax them than to ban them, and this does come on our side of the debate, as I'll explain, and secondly, that this would be a waste of political capital.
So, first of all, why is it better to tax something than to ban it?
If you ban these plastic bags, there's going to be huge public backlash, and there's also no immediately obvious replacement.
So we think that people are going to be very unhappy about this.
We think that it's better to just tax people for the harm that they're doing to society rather than to make it impossible for them to live their lifestyle.
The big problem with disposable plastic bags is the externality.
There's a damage done to the environment because these are difficult to dispose of properly.
If you make people pay for that externality, then there's no reason not to let them make their own decision about whether or not this is worth it.
You've gotten rid of the harm of this being free at the point of use.
So we think that the best thing to do here is to have a bag tax.
Where I lived in los angeles, there was a ten cent bag tax.
So, if you get a plastic bag, you have to pay ten cents.
I don't know if that covers the environmental cost, maybe it needs to be higher, but there were times when I didn't get a bag because that dissuaded me, and there were times when I did.
One good thing about a bag tax is it means that people aren't given bags they don't want.
Oftentimes, if you live in a city where bags don't have a tax, you'll get four bags with a bit a little bit of takeout food, for instance.
So we think that problem of dramatic overuse can be resolved just by having a tax, because people would choose to get only one bag or no bag rather than having many.
Why does this fall on my side of the debate?
Rachel can't defend a world in which bags are still widely used, but people pay for the harms.
She has to defend a world in which they're categorically banned, as they have been in san francisco, for instance.
But we think that there's a lot of problems with a categorical ban, and that it's better to just make people pay for that externality.
So with that in mind, what's the main problem with this ban?
Well, our second argument is about what this does with political capital.
Governments can only make so many laws and regulations in a given term.
Why?
Because the public just gets worn out and doesn't care about issues past a certain point, and lawmakers don't actually care about helping anyone.
They're completely self-serving and only do things to get reelected, so they stop working after they've worn out all of this political capital.
What that means is that if we ban these plastic bags, then governments aren't going to do other more important environmental changes, because they've already done something for the environment to win over the environmental voter.
And you might say that this is cynical, but I think you also probably know that it's true.
So if you want to do things like pass credits for electric vehicles or put limitations on the amount of pollution that cars can emit, that's much less likely to happen after a huge legal debate about whether we can ban plastic bags.
And if you doubt whether there would be such a debate, recognize that there are many conservatives who want to block any environmental regulation, no matter how common sense, so it's unlikely that this would be done quickly and easily.
We think that this is a misuse of political capital, because it's a finite resource and this doesn't do very much.
Even if you ban plastic bags, this is a tiny portion of the pollution entering the ocean and our landfills.
It will be much better to focus on industrial waste, which is where most of our pollution comes from, or to limit automobile emissions, which are another big factor, as opposed to going after something extremely marginal like plastic bags and having a huge political battle and burning political capital over that.
There's just not a good return for the amount of energy that would have to be invested.
For all of these reasons, we should not ban disposable plastic bags.
Thank you.