We should not increase wealth redistribution.
On our side, we would argue that governments should not seek to massively redistribute wealth from the wealthy to the poor.
We have three main arguments: the first about higher taxes leading to tax evasion, the second about the role of government, and the third about investment.
So, first, what happens if you raise taxes?
We think that you can set taxes as high as you want, but you can't force people to pay them.
In the mid-twentieth century, britain had extremely high income tax.
If you ever heard the song " taxman " by the beatles, that's kind of a funny way to see how high income taxes were at that time, that there were huge protests by ringo starr in this case and other wealthy people.
The reason why these higher taxes didn't lead to increased revenue is that if you raise taxes, you also increase the incentive for people to avoid paying their taxes.
People will just hide their money abroad or find other ways to avoid paying taxes if you raise the tax rates enough.
So this can actually lower your government's receipts.
We think that there's probably a an ideal point, a balance point, between taxes that are too high and too low, but that raising taxes above that point won't increase the amount of money that you bring in, because it'll lead to massive tax evasion.
We also think that there is the risk of a taxpayer revolt.
I don't mean that people are going to go out in the street and burn buildings, but rather that they will vote in new politicians or new policies that make taxation impossible.
As an example, california used to have extremely high property taxes.
So, people passed a constitutional amendment that lowered property taxes to one percent and made it illegal to ever raise them.
As a result, california schools today are drastically underfunded, and new funds can't be raised to improve them.
We think that's the most likely outcome of raising taxes too high.
Our second argument is that this just shouldn't be the role of government.
We think that governments are pretty bad at making decisions about who ought have access to what resources.
Generally speaking, we think that if the government does raise taxes in order to redistribute those funds that they'll probably redistribute them in a racist, sexist, and anti-immigrant fashion.
Why?
Because governments are run by racist and sexist and people who don't like immigrants, generally speaking.
This money is likely to be given to white men in countries like america and we think that, as a result, this won't actually solve the inequalities in society.
Many of the poorest people are going to be minorities or recent immigrants, and those people are unlikely to benefit from these policies.
So we think that, ultimately, this money isn't going to go where it's needed but rather to where politicians think they can buy the most votes.
So we don't think that this is something that the government is well-suited to do, in the first place, even if it were possible, and I've already explained why it isn't.
And thirdly, we think that this would hurt investment.
I think a lot of people think that rich people just sit on all their money like dragons and don't do anything with it, but obviously this isn't true.
What do you do if you have millions of dollars and you don't want to lose it all to inflation?
You put it into the stock market, and that's good for everyone for a few reasons: one, because that investment leads to real improvements in people's lives.
You invest in companies, and then they develop products and services to help people.
If there was less money available, then it would be harder to start a new company for people who want to open their own business, and it would be more expensive for companies to offer people their services, because they would have to raise more capital from sales rather than investors.
We also think that if you take away these people's money, then there are going to be fewer vehicles for people to invest things like their retirement.
After all, if the market crashes because there's suddenly not enough capital available, that's going to reduce the value of people's retirement funds immensely, even working class and low income people.
So, because higher taxes won't lead to more money, because this isn't something the government can do well, and because this will hurt the market, we should not try to redistribute money.
Thank you.