We should ban chemical weapons.
On our side we believe that chemical weapons should be banned by the international community and that there should be a major international effort to get rid of chemical weapons.
We've seen this happen in the past with land mines and we think a similar effort might work for chemical weapons as well.
Our first argument is that chemical weapons are cruel and unusual.
The method by which chemical weapons kill people is absolutely horrifying.
Some of them burn your skin and your lungs and turn your lungs to liquid inside your body, others make your eyeballs melt.
At the end of the day, these are absolutely atrocious weapons.
The other side might say that it doesn't matter if you end up dead.
But in the same way that we see that there's a difference between torture, which is illegal, and killing the enemy, which is legal, we do think that there's a difference between shooting someone with a gun or killing them with the bomb that's generally fairly quick, versus chemical weapons that only kill slowly and painfully.
I think that distinction really gets at the problem.
Sure, some people die horrible deaths because a bomb you know kills them in a very slow and painful way, but everyone dies that kind of death from chemical weapons.
So it seems like there is no time when it's acceptable to use them.
There's always going to be a better way to target military targets like using bombs which are much more accurate now than they were in world war one where as chemical weapons, which I'll get to in just a minute, kill indiscriminately and moreover they cause horrible suffering to everyone that they affect.
So our second argument is that chemical weapons should be banned because they kill indiscriminately.
Why is this a problem?
It's generally accepted that military forces have an obligation not to harm civilians or innocent people when they're fighting.
Chemical weapons are just a gas that flows across a field.
They kill medics, they kill nurses, they kill civilians caught in the line of fire indiscriminately.
Where is we think that soldiers can be trained not to shoot medics or not to shoot civilians or that cluster bombs can be targeted at uniquely military targets.
The other side might say oh we can target chemical weapons uniquely at military targets but that's not generally how these are used.
The appeal of a chemical weapon is that you can cover a huge area all at once in a way that would be very difficult to do with a traditional bomb or with infantry fire.
We think that the problem with that is that necessarily you're not going to know all of the people who were in that area and that it's much more likely that you get innocent people caught in the line of fire, so to speak, with these chemical weapons.
Moreover, there's no way to halt a chemical weapon once it's been deployed.
If you realize that you've made a mistake where as you could call off a bombing run or tell soldiers to stop shooting, you just have to wait for the gas to disperse.
So there's no way to actually react to a situation when it when you realize that violence wasn't appropriate.
And our final argument is that chemical weapons are very useful for a certain type of dictator and not really for anyone else.
If you are a western liberal democracy you never use chemical weapons.
When you go to war, which is rarely, it's probably as part of an international coalition that has f-eighteen fighter jets and all of this cool military technology that lets you accomplish your goals relatively humanely.
Know the people who use chemical weapons are generally tin pot dictators like saddam hussein or muammar qaddafi that type of dictator at least.
Dictators who have difficulty controlling their people and don't have access to the latest western military technology.
And because if you're saddam hussein it's very easy to kill lots of kurds with chemical weapons.
You have a huge incentive to stockpile them.
We think that banning chemical weapons is a proxy for weakening these types of dictators and making it harder for them to kill their own people.
For all these reasons, we should ban chemical weapons.
Thank you.