Blood donation should be mandatory.
On our side, we're arguing that people who are safely able to give blood, such as healthy adults and people who don't have any transmissible disease, should be required to donate blood if there is a shortage of blood in your country.
So we're not saying that everyone is going to have to go in every monday morning and donate a pint of blood but, for instance, after a natural disaster, when there is a huge demand for blood donations, we would be okay with requiring healthy people to donate.
A good example of this might be after the terrible hurricane that hit puerto rico last year.
We would be fine with requiring healthy puerto ricans to donate blood, if they're able, so that we have enough blood to supply all of the people in need after that terrible disaster.
With that in mind, we have two main arguments: the first is that from a utilitarian perspective, this is obviously ethical, and the second is about how this ends shortages.
So what do we mean about why this is ethical?
We would tell you that when you're making a decision about whether something is the right thing to do, you need to weigh the costs to different groups of people.
We would say that the harm to someone of not getting blood when they need it is so great that we're willing to ignore people's right to choose how to use their body in order to prevent that from happening.
We're not going to deny that this is an imposition on personal freedom, rather we're going to say that if you compare the enormous harm of someone who has a rare blood type or who just needs blood in general not being able to get that transfusion versus the relatively minor cost of having to give up a pint of blood and maybe drink a little bit of extra water that day, it's clear that we should defer to the person whose life is at risk rather than the healthy person, whose time is at risk.
Now, they other side might see that some people have religious objections or that some people are just very uncomfortable with needles but, again, I think it's clear that saving people's lives, especially in a time of extreme need, is much more important than any other freedom.
After all, the right to life must precede any other rights that people have.
You would have no way to access your right to freedom of religion or bodily autonomy if you aren't alive.
So we think that this is the most basic right that governments need to preserve.
And if there is a demand that isn't being met, we think that it's necessary for the government to step in and correct this failing of the market by requiring that people donate.
Our second argument is about how this uniquely ends shortages.
Blood donation tends to be something that people do a few times a year when their office or their school has a blood drive.
Many times this happens around the holidays.
The problem with that is that blood, apparently, doesn't remain stable very long.
You have to constantly be replenishing the supply of blood available to hospitals in your country.
In a huge country like the united states, this might be something that people can do easily, but in a relatively small country like, say, switzerland, there might be many fewer people donating at any given time so that, if god forbid, there should be a disaster, there wouldn't be enough blood on hand, even if people were donating a little bit throughout the year.
The only way to deal with this sudden demand is to have a sudden increase in supply as well.
And while it's true that many generous people might go out and donate blood of their own volition, what we're talking about is what happens when people aren't donating enough blood.
After all, if there was no need for this, it wouldn't be implemented.
So we think that given that there's this sudden surge of demand, the only way to end the shortage is going to be to require people to donate.
The other side might say you could import blood from other countries, but that probably isn't an option for many poorer countries and, also, sometimes isn't practical, because you have immediate need.
On our side, we've explained to you why this is ethical, why it's necessary and, also, how we uniquely stop shortages in the blood supply when it's most needed.
For all these reasons, blood donation should be mandatory.
Thank you.