Open primaries in the united states are advantageous.
So, by this we mean, first of all, regarding open primaries, these are votes to choose a candidate for a general election and they're run by the political parties, but if you have an open primary, then people who are not registered members of that party are free to vote.
If you have a closed primary, only people who are registered members of that party would be able to participate.
So, we're saying let people participate who aren't registered of the republicans or the democrats.
And by advantageous, we think what this debate really is about is which side better helps the party holding the primary to win more elections.
We think that the purpose of a primary ultimately is to get a candidate who will do well in the general election, so the thing that is more advantageous is the thing that will give you an advantage relative to the other party in the general election.
And we're going to demonstrate that by telling you how we get better candidates and why we think this process is more democratic and that's a good thing.
So, in terms a better candidates, we think that it's critical that a primary include moderates as much as possible.
The people who you need to sway in an american general election aren't your base.
If you're the republicans, you don't need to win over evangelical christians because they're going to vote for you anyway, they always do.
You need to win over white working-class people and other more moderate groups that could go to the democrats or the republicans.
Ultimately, only about a third of american votes are actually in play, so to speak, in a given election because about a third of people are republicans and about a third of people are democrats.
So, that remaining third is what the election actually comes down to and by having an open primary, you include more of those people in your primary because as moderate independents, they're not going to be registered as republicans or as democrats so they're more likely to actually participate if they're able to participate because it's an open primary.
So, therefore, your primary will better reflect the general election and you'll have a better sense of how popular your candidate will be when it comes time to have the real election in the fall.
So, we think that this is a really good way to ensure that your candidate has brought appeal and is going to appeal to the people that you actually need to win over to your side.
We also think that it's important that you reduce the power of radicals.
You want to avoid getting a candidate who's so far left or so far right that they can't appeal to moderates and the way to do that is to include more people who are moderates in your voting base because these people aren't going to pick someone in the primary who's too far left or too far right.
They'll pick someone who's close enough to center to be appealing to the american people as a whole.
So, we think you reduce the power of radicals in your party to actually hurt you by trying to pick someone who is ideologically good for them but not suitable for the general election.
So, we think that ultimately, you get better candidates and this is a huge advantage in the general election, so it's clear that you should use open primaries whenever possible.
Our second point is that we think open primaries are more democratic.
So, as I mentioned before, about a third of americans aren't republicans or democrats, which means that they're excluded from primaries in states like north carolina that have closed primaries.
So, we don't think that primaries in a state like north carolina are very democratic because millions of people who would be participating in the general election are not able to vote.
So, we think that if they're more democratic, then you're going to get more buy-in and more legitimacy because people will see that this actually reflects the will of the people and not just a plurality of the people that's relatively small.
We also tell you that candidates need a popular democratic mandate for legitimacy.
So, what I mean by that is that in order for a candidate to be seen as a good candidate and trustworthy, they need a broad base of people supporting them.
They need people of different races, of different socio-economic statuses, of different religions supporting them so that people don't think the candidate will be very biased towards one group of people.
And because you're including, ultimately, a much larger swathe of the population, we think that's going to be much easier to do with open primaries.
So, they're going to be more democratic and because of this, you'll see your candidate appears more legitimate to the american public.
So, for these reasons, I think it's clear that open primaries are advantageous.