We should support water privatization.
What we mean is that in places where water is provided by a public utility company, we would privatize that utility company or sell off the rights to distribute water to private organizations rather than keep it publicly owned.
We have two main arguments for our side: the first is that this would improve infrastructure, and the second is that it would lower costs.
So, first, why with this improve infrastructure?
Public companies oftentimes don't have a big incentive to maintain the drinking water infrastructure in their city.
So we can see that major american cities like philadelphia rely on very old infrastructure that's probably not safe anymore to provide their water, because there's no incentive for the government to fix it.
People are extremely unwilling to pay higher taxes, even when it's for something good like better water, and aside from that, the government faces other challenges, like spiraling pension obligations, or they need to fix roads, another more public infrastructure or more visible infrastructure, I should say, and so they don't invest in fixing the water.
We think that, on the other hand, a private company wants to fix the water supply, first of all, so that they can be more efficient, because private companies tend to be more concerned with efficiency in order to maximize their profit and, obviously, if you have old leaky pipes, this leads to waste, which leads to a loss of money, but aside from that, also because this is a good way for them to compete with their competitors, right?
If you have two companies that are competing to win a contract to provide, let's use philadelphia again, with water, then both of them are going to try to prove to the city that they'll offer something that the other company can't, and I think this will usually take the form of offering new infrastructure and better infrastructure.
So this is a way for cities to replace infrastructure that's oftentimes over a hundred years old and desperately in need of replacement and maintenance that it's just not getting from these publicly-owned utility companies.
And our second argument is that this will drive down costs.
This is for similar reasons to why the new companies will have better infrastructure, namely, in order to win contracts, right?
One of the things that cities are going to look at when they auction off the right to provide water is the rates that companies are going to charge.
If company " a " and company " b " both bid to offer the city of philadelphia water, and one company is going to charge customers two dollars a gallon and the other one dollar a gallon, obviously, those prices are ridiculous but just imagine, then it's clear that the government is going to offer the contract to the company with lower prices.
Indeed, they have a legal obligation to do so in most jurisdictions.
On the other hand, a public utility doesn't have any competition, so they have no check against higher prices other than public outrage, but since they have no competition, the public can't go anywhere else.
So outrage doesn't really affect them.
What this means is that prices can just keep going up with a public water company, and there's never going to be any check on it.
And, moreover, looking back to what I said before, prices keep going up, but the quality of service never gets any better.
So people are paying more for basically no reason.
We think that while people might pay a little bit more with private companies, they would actually get something from it in the form of better infrastructure and safer infrastructure and, indeed, they might actually pay less because of this competition to win the bid.
And note that I'm imagining a world where philadelphia still only has one water company, because it's a natural monopoly, but if somehow you were able to have multiple water companies, then they would have to compete even more to offer lower rates to attract subscribers.
So I think it's clear that over time, competition could lead to much lower prices for consumers.
So for all of these reasons, we should privatize water.
Thank you.