We should not increase wealth redistribution.
On our side, we don't think that government should seek to transfer wealth from wealthy people to poor people or from private individuals to the public on a dramatic scale, compared to what they do in the status quo.
We have two main arguments.
The first is about capital flight, and the second is about the reactionary backlash that would probably happen.
So, first, capital flight.
What does this mean?
This is what occurs when people move their money and wealth out of a country because of an unfavorable tax policy.
If you want to see a good example of this and how it's influenced by tax policy, think about american corporations that have moved their headquarters, on paper, to dublin.
Apple is a great example of this.
Every year, apple makes billions of dollars in the united states and around the globe, and rather than pay taxes on that in the united states, which has the highest corporate tax rate in the western world, they move that money to ireland, which has very low taxes.
Why is that the case?
Well, apple has a legal obligation to make as much money as possible for their shareholders.
To do that, they need to keep as much of their money as possible.
So rather than pay twenty five percent tax in the united states, they move their money to ireland and pay very low taxes.
In fact, they even sometimes write off a loss in the united states on paper, while making massive profits in ireland, and there's nothing that the US or any other country can do about this, because it's completely legal.
We think that if you dramatically raise taxes in order to redistribute wealth from the richest people to the poorest people, that individuals would also move their capital abroad.
This is already the case for unstable countries.
You see that people move their money out of countries like russia or greece to stable countries like switzerland or the united states.
But if the US, or britain, or another western country were to dramatically raise their taxes, people would just move, especially the super wealthy people, your warren buffetts and your jeff bezoses, who you really would want to tax.
They will take their money elsewhere, and if you put capital controls in place to prevent them from moving their money, then people will panic and probably try to leave the country completely.
So we think that there's just no way to do this without having massive capital flight, and that would be bad because it would lower your overall tax base.
So even if you raise the tax rate, the people that you need to tax just wouldn't be there anymore.
Our second main argument is about the reactionary backlash that would take place.
If you dramatically raise taxes in the US, or britain, or another western country, people wouldn't just roll over and tolerate it.
Conservative business owners, like rupert murdoch, would use the media to convince ordinary people that this was a threat to democracy or that this was evil, even if it benefitted ordinary people.
If you don't believe me, consider that these same people got britain to leave the EU and donald trump elected president.
Clearly, the average voter has no clue what is good for them and will do whatever their corporate masters tell them to.
So we think that this would lead to politicians being voted out of office who wanted to use this money for progressive purposes and to much more draconian policies being implemented.
A good example of this would be property taxes in california, where I live.
In california, property taxes are limited to one percent whereas in most other US states, they're five percent or even higher.
The reason is that california used to have very high property taxes, so wealthy people got a constitutional amendment passed to lower the property tax and, as a result, municipal incomes are really low and california has atrocious public schools for elementary, middle and high school.
So we can see that there's a good precedent for draconian tax policies to be put into place if you have too high a tax rate such that it upsets wealthy people.
For all of these reasons, we should not seek to increase wealth redistribution.
Thank you.