We should not ban chemical weapons.
Since the first world war, chemical weapons have held a special place in the public imagination.
People have these visions of a dark cloud descending over a battlefield and killing thousands of people in a single blow.
We think however, that it would be preferable if chemical weapons were allowed but regulated the same way that other types of weapons of mass destruction are rather than banned in jurisdictions where they are banned.
Our first argument is that this only promotes the creation of other weapons of mass destruction.
A hundred years ago chemical weapons were the only game in town in terms of weapons of mass destruction but since then, first of all, we've developed much more devastating weapons of mass destruction such as biological and of course nuclear weapons but also conventional weaponry has become much more dangerous.
Things like napalm bombs just didn't exist on the scale that they do today a hundred years ago or cluster bombs or white phosphorus or any of these other terrible conventional weapons that aren't regulated.
When you ban the creation of chemical weapons which are cheap and highly effective and therefore desirous for a state to have, you promote the development of alternatives that fill the same ends.
But we think that oftentimes these weapons can be just as bad like white phosphorus or even worse like the napalm bombs that destroyed so much of southeast asia during the american war in vietnam.
So we think that this has actually had a perverse incentive for governments to develop even more devastating weapons because cheap, effective, easy to produce chemical weapons have been banned to them for so long.
We would prefer to have chemical weapons around if it meant fewer napalm bombs, less white phosphorous and the like.
In particular I think this is true because the public will not accept the use of these chemical weapons as they would other weapons.
So this may actually lead to less violence in total.
Our second argument is that it doesn't matter to the dead how they were killed.
At the end of the day, if thousands of people are killed in a battle by fire bombs or thousands of people are killed by mustard gas it doesn't make a great deal of difference to them and it's obvious that you don't need chemical weapons to kill tens of thousands of men in a single day.
All you have to do is look at the second world war when no chemical weapons were used and yet thousands of people could die in a single day in places like stalingrad because of improvements to conventional weapons and weapons have only gotten more dangerous since then.
So we think that ultimately you're not protecting anyone by banning these chemical weapons, this the other side might claim.
People are still going to die absolutely horrible deaths as long as warfare continues and we think that banning chemical weapons has the appearance of a solution without actually offering one.
This can dull political will and make it harder to actually advocate for the piece that would help these people in the long term.
And our final argument is that this ban and its enforcement can actually promote conflict.
See for instance how US attacks on iraq and afghanistan used the presence of chemical weapons as a casus belli.
We think that it would obviously have been preferable if the united states had not invaded iraq and killed over a million people, if the united states had not gotten involved in syria and caused the war to drag on for years and years before assad still eventually won.
We think that in a world where chemical weapons were legal this casus belli wouldn't exist.
The other side might say that the US would have found some other reason to go to war but I don't think they can just assert that that's true when it took an enormous amount of convincing and lying on the part of the CIA to get the senate to invade iraq over WMD's.
For all these reasons, we should not ban chemical weapons.
Thank you.