We should increase wealth redistribution.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why it's a problem for society that we now live in the most unequal period in history.
As we can see from edward piketty's excellent book " capital ", a tiny number of people now control an even greater proportion of the world's wealth than they did during the time before the french revolution which, I think, previously had been the peak.
So our we have two arguments for you today: one about why inequality leads to violence and second about what causes poverty.
So, first, why does inequality lead to violence?
As we can see around the world, unequal societies are much more likely to have revolutions or violent civil wars than equal societies.
We can see, of course, that the french revolution began when the common people overthrew the nobility, who controlled all of the property in the country, essentially.
We can see that in russia, obviously, there was great dissatisfaction with the czar and the nobility there, so people rose up against them.
In china, people hated the landlords, and landlord is a poor translation.
These people were basically feudal lords, like we saw in europe, who were overthrown during the communist revolution.
So we can see that over the last two hundred years, there's been a trend towards violence in the world's most unequal societies.
And in places like latin america that have more inequality, we've seen more revolutions, whereas in places like europe which tend to be more equal, we've seen relatively fewer, although europe has surely seen its fair share.
But we can see it's obvious why people revolt.
If you have nothing and there's someone lording over you who has everything, if you can't provide for your children and there are people who are wasting all of their money on expensive luxury goods, then it's not a big jump to say, " I'm going to die either way, " or " my child's going to die either way.
Why not try to take that rich person down and get what I need to survive? "
This is perfectly reasonable, and I think there's actually no blame to be assigned for it.
It makes perfect sense why poor people have historically risen up to overthrow their masters.
So we need to fight against wealth inequality by redistributing that wealth so that society can be peaceful.
We need to give people enough wealth to provide for their families so that they don't feel the need to rise up in violence.
And, on the flip side, we need to prevent the super wealthy from being super wealthy so that they don't have such wealth that they drive other people to desperation, which leads nicely to our second point about eliminating poverty.
It is only possible for there to be massive accumulation of wealth if some people get rich at the expense of others, right?
All of the first millionaires in history, the industrialists of the early twentieth century, got that rich because they paid next to nothing to their workers, who were the most productive laborers in the world.
Similarly, today, we can see that many people like jeff bezos and bill gates have gotten extremely wealthy through investments but at the same time, we can see that those investments are only valuable because of massive inequality elsewhere.
Cheap production and the inability of some countries to have a domestic market that produces because of competition with wealthier countries means that some people are trapped in horrible poverty, and this is the only vehicle through which you can have a billionaire.
In other words, there is no benign, there is no innocent billionaire.
Everyone who has this type of inordinate wealth has it at the expense of people living around the world who are suffering in order to produce so that some people can have so much.
We think that it's necessary morally to end this poverty because people are suffering, but also because there's no benefit derived from it.
All of this money plugged into capital markets doesn't get fed back into helping ordinary people.
It just goes towards making the same handful of individuals richer, and that has to stop.
And for all these reasons, we need to fight against wealth inequality.
Thank you.