We should end agricultural subsidies.
On our side, we're going to explain that there are two main reasons why we should end agricultural subsidies.
We think that this would mean that the government wouldn't buy products in order to drive up their prices nor would they provide cash or material subsidies to farmers in order to encourage them to produce certain goods or to make their businesses viable.
Our first argument against agricultural subsidies is that they destroy foreign production.
When the united states and other large producing countries like brazil have agricultural subsidies they prevent other countries from being able to compete.
Indeed this is part of the reason why farmers demand subsidies is so that they can produce at a lower cost than farmers abroad but let's look at the effect that this has.
When the united states and mexico entered into a free trade agreement in the nineteen nineties it completely destroyed mexican agriculture.
Why?
Because even though mexico has low wages and has a fairly low cost of production, mexican farmers couldn't compete with highly subsidized US farmers and as a result millions of people, that's not an exaggeration, millions of people lost their jobs in agriculture and the country's agricultural output plummeted.
Now you might say that the only thing the US should care about is helping its own farmers but this is actually one of the main factors that led to the US current illegal immigration problem.
Millions of people who for hundreds of years have been working as maize farmers in mexico suddenly couldn't continue to grow maize and didn't have any other economic opportunity.
This led them to seek economic opportunity elsewhere oftentimes by going into the united states to work on those same subsidized farms or to work in other job in the united states.
Now the other side might say that you need to reduce the amount of agricultural jobs to develop because those workers will then go work in factories.
But for many countries like mexico this hasn't proven to be the case because the demand for their industrial output just doesn't exist at a high enough level to replace all these agricultural jobs.
So we can see that this is very damaging for countries that rely heavily on agriculture to employ their people and that this can have secondary effects that hurt wealthy countries that have been using these subsidies in the first place and our second argument is that these subsidies are really bad for the environment.
Why is this the case?
Well first of all, we would tell you that subsidies encourage people to cultivate more land.
We tell you that when farmers have an incentive to cultivate more land, this means that more land is not in its natural state.
It's not a habitat for wild animals.
It's not somewhere that migrating birds and other creatures can stop over.
It's ultimately devoted to this monoculture that has no resemblance to nature.
We think that if you remove subsidies much less land will be cultivated because it will be less profitable so only the best land will be profitable enough to cultivate and that as a result, the amount of land allowed to lie fallow and be returned to nature will greatly increase.
But aside from that, modern industrial farming relies heavily on huge abuse of fertilizers and other chemicals that then get into the groundwater and lead to huge problems.
For instance, a lot of fertilizer runs off into rivers and then leads to huge algae blooms in ponds that kill all of the native plants and fish and then leave these ponds is only a home to this algae that then continues to grow out of control and this damages local ecosystems greatly.
Similarly, the use of fossil fuel based fertilizers also increases a country's carbon output which can lead to greater global warming over time which is a problem for us all.
So for all of these reasons, we need to end agricultural subsidies.
Thank you.