We should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
So, essentially what we're arguing in this debate is that in countries that currently provide government subsidies for tobacco farmers, that policy should be ended.
So we think that these subsidies might involve the government setting minimum prices for tobacco or providing grants for farmers to purchase new equipment, things like that.
And we think that these policies could be phased out over a period of time.
We don't have to cut them all off, you know, a week from tuesday or something.
We're fine with phasing them out over a period of years to allow people to adjust.
Two big arguments for why we should not subsidize tobacco.
The first is that the use of tobacco is undesirable in any country.
Recognize that a subsidy fundamentally is government sanction of a given product.
We see that governments, for instance in the US, subsidize the production of dairy, because we want to keep the cost of dairy low so that low-income families can afford to buy milk for their children.
Things like that.
When you subsidize tobacco, similarly, you drive down the cost of tobacco, because the public is bearing part of that cost in place of the farmer, which means that you're facilitating access to tobacco for people who otherwise wouldn't be able to consume it at all, or they wouldn't be able to consume as much.
But why would we ever want to facilitate the consumption of more tobacco?
We see that as individuals smoke more and more, they place a greater burden on public health.
Why is this so?
In virtually every country around the world, the public picks up the bill for people's medical expenses or at least, those of people in need.
You see that in places like britain, things like national health are going to pay the tab if someone develops emphysema or mouth or throat cancer as a result of consuming tobacco.
Basically, what you do when you subsidize tobacco, therefore, is encourage people to develop medical conditions that will then cost the public a fortune in order to treat.
We think that this is completely counterproductive, that you should take every step possible to improve public health in order to minimize the cost of providing these services to for the government.
At that point, if anything, we should be trying to drive up the cost of tobacco rather than subsidize it.
And realize, that many governments are doing both.
There are high taxes on cigarettes, for instance, in many countries around the world.
How does it make any sense to subsidize a product so that it is cheaper to produce, and then tax it so that it's much more expensive to consume?
Effectively, you are canceling out the subsidy with the tax.
We think it would be better if you just cut the spending on the subsidy and keep the taxes where they are, so that fewer and fewer people smoke in the long term.
Our second argument is that it would be preferable if governments let dying industries die.
Now the other team's going to tell you that the tobacco industry is growing globally and that's true, but it is not growing in many of the countries that provide the highest subsidies.
In america, for instance, tobacco production has been going down over the years.
There's less and less consumption, and as china and india are producing more and more tobacco for internal consumption.
The same is true in europe.
Tobacco consumption is going down.
Tobacco production also needs to go down.
We think that governments, rather than intervene to prop up businesses that don't make sense anymore, should focus on making it easier for people to transition to more sustainable businesses.
It is cheaper to teach a man for to fish than to buy him a new fish every day.
So, we think that government should phase out these subsidies and encourage farmers, through grants or different subsidies, to produce other products instead.
Almost any other crop that they could grow would have more social utility than tobacco since, presumably, it would cause less cancer.
And on top of that, we think that it would encourage farmers to switch over to products which don't require the same level of subsidy in order to be profitable, thereby decreasing the burden they place on the rest of society.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Thank you.