We should not end agricultural subsidies.
Contrary to what my opponent said, agricultural subsidies are actually good for the subsidizing country, and we're going to explain how and why we're going to win the debate as a result.
Our first argument is about why this is necessary for state security.
In order for your country to be secure during a war, you have to produce a substantial portion of your own food.
The real reason that germany surrendered in world war one isn't that there were too many american soldiers joining the allied army for the germans to keep fighting.
It's that the british blockade of germany meant that people were starving in german cities, and the government wasn't able to keep putting down the food riots that were breaking out.
Sam tells you that subsidies are really bad because people in other countries benefit, but don't forget that people in your own country benefit as well.
Subsidies ensure that your country will keep growing food, even if it's not profitable.
Sam acts as though it's just the same to import food from other countries as to grow it yourself, but at the end of the day, in a conflict, only countries that produce their own food will be able to avoid being starved out by a blockade.
So we think that although this might seem like a remote threat, for many countries around the world this is actually serious.
If you are a small country with a powerful neighbor, it's really important that you grow enough of your own food to provide for yourself so that your neighbor can't cut you off and prevent you from being able to feed your people.
Moreover, it also affects your balance of trade.
If you're having to spend your money to import food from other countries, that means it's harder to import other goods.
There's a limit to how much your country can afford to import, and it's probably better to import things like german and american technology than it is to import rutabagas that you could grow for yourself.
So this just doesn't seem to hold water.
I think sam's wrong about what this does to your trade and that he underestimates the importance of this to national security, and that this is enough for us to win the debate because of the astronomical harms that can have for your country.
Our second argument is that this keeps food costs low.
This argument's pretty simple.
Low income people in your country directly benefit from food subsidies, because the cost of eating is lower.
Many people would have to go without if bread and corn and things like that weren't subsidized, and we think that that's an unacceptable tradeoff, that it's very important that people are able to afford a good diet, and that subsidies make that more likely.
In response to something sam said about foreign consumption, we think it's fine if american tax dollars indirectly help starving people around the world have more to eat.
Sure, that might not be what people intend when we give subsidies, but if this means that foreign countries that are going through a food shortage can afford to import more american corn and wheat, we think that's a good thing if it saves people's lives.
I think he just assumes that it's bad to subsidize other people, but we think you have a moral obligation to help those in need, and driving down the cost of food helps to solve this.
A brief point of rebuttal: sam talks about food waste and acts as though food overproduction is a reason to end subsidies.
But recognize that food is not all interchangeable.
The fact that a lot of grain goes to waste doesn't mean that we shouldn't subsidize dairy production, for instance, where the waste isn't as bad.
And, moreover, even though it's true that we overproduce food, millions of people are still starving around the world and thousands within the united states.
So I think it's clear that the problem is one of distribution, and it seems unlikely to me that driving up the cost of food would encourage distributors to get more food to people in need.
He also mentions lobbying, and I'd just briefly like to say it's unclear to me why this lobbying is bad, other than it perpetuates more food subsidies, which we don't think are bad.
So I think sam has to a lot more work to win on that argument.
For all these reasons, we should not end agricultural subsidies.
Thank you.