We should not adopt blasphemy laws.
On our side of the house we think that blasphemy laws are incompatible with a liberal society and therefore that they ought not be implemented.
First, because of their effect on freedom of speech second, because of their relationship to an established religion and third, because we just don't think blasphemy is actually something bad.
We think that in regards to freedom of speech, that it's much more important to allow people to speak their mind and hold their own opinions than it is to protect people from speech that they might find offensive.
This is why there are relatively few limitations on other types of offensive speech in western societies.
In his speech tim tried to compare blasphemy to libel but I think that the important difference is that libel damages a person's reputation in the community for instance, if I say that " tim is really bad at his job and nobody should hire him because he's bad at his job ", that has a clear affect on tim's ability to make a living and to live his life.
On the other hand if I say " god is not real and mohammed is not his profit " I'm not hurting any real person's ability to get a job or live their life.
People may not want to hear that and it may be offensive to some people but there's no right not to be offended and I think that what we hear at the other side is basically an argument that people have a right not to be uncomfortable but where is the line?
Many conservative people would use this to ban pornography or ban a lot of popular entertainment and we think that if you think that's absurd than the line clearly needs to be drawn at not caring about when people are offended.
If speech doesn't actively harm someone by undermining their livelihood or inciting violence, then we think that that speech should be permitted even if it's deeply distasteful and as a good example of this you can see that we allow people to have horrible political beliefs and express them in public in western countries even though that probably does much more harm than blasphemy.
It would be inconsistent to protect blasphemy when we ignore these other types of distasteful speech.
Secondly, in terms of establishment the united states and many other western countries forbid the establishment of one particular religion.
We think that blasphemy laws run afoul of this constitutional protection for a couple of reasons.
One, it's probably going to be the majority religion that gets protected by this law because that's the religion that people are going to be most familiar with and most likely to go after and also because judges are going to be more sympathetic to that religion and two, because we don't think anyone else is going to have the resources to bring lawsuits.
In other words you might think that this would be used to crackdown on islamophobia but we think it's much more likely that you're going to see the lutheran church or the catholic church using this to go after TV shows they don't like.
Essentially it's going to promote the majority religion which comes dangerously close to breaking the establishment clause.
If you are doing work for the church to prevent speech that the church doesn't like, that seems an awful lot like having an official religion even in a secular or nominally secular state.
But lastly, we just don't think blasphemy is actually bad, right?
Yes, people are somewhat offended by it but it also causes discourse about religion and leads people to more critically examine their own beliefs.
If you think about the famous charlie hebdo magazine that was so controversial a few years ago for blasphemy this led to a big discussion about the role of islam in france that actually probably led many french people to realize that not all muslims were opposed to the idea of blasphemy in secular society and that many muslims were very opposed to the protests.
So I think if anything this may have actually made the catholic or lapsed catholic french population realize they had something in common with the moderate muslim population.
Yes, some people were outraged and protested but ultimately this also let those people see how far removed they were from mainstream french society and hopefully may have changed some minds there as well.
For all these reasons, we should not adopt blasphemy laws.
Thank you.