We should not ban corporal punishment.
I want to be very clear what we're advocating today.
Our side is not advocating for legalizing child abuse.
We think that there are different gradations of physical punishment and that some are acceptable and others are not.
It's clear that there has to be a line somewhere and we think that that line probably varies based on cultural norms in a given country but that, ultimately, there is probably some acceptable level of corporal punishment, whether it be something as simple as spanking, on either side of this debate and in any given country.
With that in mind, we have two main arguments about why we should allow corporal punishment: first, that it's sometimes necessary, and second, that it's not the government's place to determine how parents raise their children in every respect.
So why is corporal punishment sometimes necessary?
I think it's important to recognize that oftentimes the parents who have the least leverage over their children are the ones who most need to be able to discipline their children.
Let's imagine two different families, one that's quite wealthy and one that's very poor, for instance.
The wealthier family gives the parents many more opportunities to have leverage over their children.
If you have a child who is acting out, or doing drugs, or not doing well in school, then a wealthy family can take away their smartphone or not let them go to practice and lots of other things that you might be able to use as leverage in order to encourage a child to improve their behavior, whereas in a poorer family where you don't have many of those things, you have much less leverage.
So I think it's clear that, in both instances, you would need to change the child's behavior for their own well-being, but that it's much more difficult for a low-income single mother who works two jobs to discipline her children than it is for a suburban family who have lots of money and whose children have lots of privileges.
Given that that's the circumstance, I think it's clear that, sometimes, even if corporal punishment might not be necessary for that wealthier family, it might be necessary for that less well-off family, because there just aren't a lot of alternative ways for them to instill discipline in their children, and I think that you can see this as a general pattern throughout society, that low-income people are more likely to use physical discipline with their children.
I don't think that's because these people are in any way morally different than anyone else.
I think it's a matter of need and that by banning this, by having very, very wealthy politicians, who have no clue what it's like to be working class, ban corporal punishment, you undermine the authority of many working class or low-income parents.
But secondly, we would argue that this just isn't the government's place.
We think that the government should intervene on behalf of children at times when their wellbeing is at risk, but it's not immediately clear that this is the case here.
A mild form of corporal punishment probably has no lasting effects on children and might actually lead them to have much better behavior and to avoid things that are bad for them.
Even if it would be better if we lived in a world with no corporal punishment, if the choice is between children who have a little bit of corporal punishment, who don't do drugs and who go to school, and children who do drugs and skip school, I think it's very clear that one is better than the other, that we're not talking about corporal punishment in a vacuum but rather as an alternative to other behaviors.
And given that that's the case, I don't think that the government can step in and claim that children are absolutely better off without any form of corporal punishment, and that's really the standard that we would need to see for the government to get involved.
Right, it's fine for the government to ban secondhand smoking because people are absolutely, in every sense, better off without secondhand smoke.
But I don't think it's as cut and dry for corporal punishment, so I don't think it's the government's place to get involved.
For all of these reasons, we should not abolish corporal punishment.
Thank you.