We should not ban nuclear weapons.
Contrary to what we heard from sam this morning, we think that actually there are many benefits to a world with nuclear weapons and that it would be naive to assume the world would be a better place without them.
Our first major argument and our main point of constructive material, before I get into some rebuttal, is about why mutually assured destruction is so important.
Right now, we live in a dramatically more peaceful century than our grandparents.
In the twentieth century and the late nineteenth century, wars between the great powers of the world were a constant threat, and the two wars that did occur between great powers killed over a hundred million people between them.
I think it's clear that the biggest possible benefit anyone can show in this debate is saving lives, and I'd like you to imagine how devastating a great power war would be today.
If world war two could kill over eighty million people with nineteen forties technology, it seems likely to me that a war between russia and america, or russia and china, or china and america could kill two hundred, three hundred, who knows how many hundreds of millions of people.
Strategic bombing and gas attacks and other weapons would be astronomically worse than they were in the wars of the twentieth century, which are already too horrible to comprehend.
Why don't these types of wars happen anymore?
After all, great powers are still at odds.
Certainly, the soviet union and america hated each other as much as any two great powers in history.
Nuclear weapons are the answer.
Nuclear weapons have changed the decision-making calculus of leaders around the world so that war between great powers is unthinkable.
The risk of nuclear war makes it so that conflict isn't worthwhile, even to the elite who wouldn't be affected by a regular war.
Whereas a senator might not care about, say, fighting a war in nineteen forty because his son won't die and his home won't be affected, no senator today would vote to go to war, because they would be incinerated in nuclear hellfire.
Mutually assured destruction has ushered in a great era of peace, and it would be a disgrace to throw that away, and many more people would die than would be saved.
Now I'd like to do a little bit of rebuttal to some points we heard from sam.
The first is in response to his point about imperialism.
Sam tells us that rich powerful countries like america are able to push other countries around because of the threat of nuclear attack.
This is patently absurd.
The united states has never threatened to use nuclear weapons against another country in order to extract economic concessions.
Indeed, as far as I know, the only time we've threatened to use nuclear weapons since world war two was against china in the korean war, and general macarthur was sacked and removed from his post for making that threat.
Countries don't need nuclear weapons to be imperialist.
The golden age of imperialism in the late nineteenth century, when british ships would show up in your harbor and tell you that they were in charge now, happened well before nuclear weapons.
The US and britain and other countries don't need nukes to be bullies, so this just isn't something that would change if you got rid of nuclear weapons.
Next: annihilation.
As I already explained, nuclear weapons reduce the risk of massive war.
Chemical weapons and strategic bombing can kill just as many people as nuclear weapons, so annihilation isn't something that nuclear weapons create.
Do they make it worse?
Maybe.
But the risk of a war that kills three hundred million people doesn't sound very appealing either.
Moreover, given that people know how to make nuclear weapons, even if you ban them, a country could still make them in secret.
You can't put the genie back in the bottle once it's been released, so we just don't think the other side is actually better off in this respect.
And finally, in terms of nuclear waste, first of all, nuclear weapons don't produce very much waste.
It's mostly from civilian use.
And secondly, we could dispose of all of our waste safely at yucca mountain.
It's a political problem that has a real solution.
For all these reasons, we should not ban nuclear weapons.
Thank you.