We should not support the phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.
I think the other side is completely correct that lightweight plastic bags cause pollution and are a major factor in plastic in the ocean, but we don't think that's a sufficient reason to phase out the use of these plastic bags, a policy which we've already seen implemented in cities like san francisco.
We have two main arguments: the first is about how we get more political will for environmental policies, and the second is about backlash.
So, first, we would argue that banning plastic bags uses a substantial amount of political capital but doesn't actually have a very large effect.
What does this mean?
So when we say political capital, let's imagine that in order to change government policies, you have to have a certain amount of call for change from the public and a certain amount of will to do something on behalf of the legislature and that both of these are finite resources, like any other type of capital.
So, in other words, if you see in a particular parliamentary session a massive tax reform, it's much less likely that you'll see a massive education reform in that same session, even though the two have relatively little to do with one another, just because people are tired and politicians feel like they've done enough, so to speak, for their constituents in that session.
When you ban plastic bags, first of all, this usually causes substantial uproar.
More about that in just a moment.
But secondly, it also takes a sustained effort by lobbyists and then by legislators to get this policy put into effect.
What does that mean?
It means that those lobbyists and legislators aren't working on other problems that are actually more substantial.
Are plastic bags bad?
Yes, of course.
Are they the biggest problem facing the environment?
No.
Having those legislators focus on things, for instance, like replacing all diesel buses with electric buses would probably have a much larger impact than banning plastic bags, but it's much less likely that they'll focus on that after working on plastic bags in a given legislative cycle.
So I think that the capital that's used up here is not being applied to the things that would have the largest change and, therefore, that this is not the optimal policy to put into place.
But our second argument is about the backlash that this policy raises up.
Unfortunately, the environmental movement has become extremely politicized in recent decades.
We are far removed from the nineteen seventies when both political parties supported the clean air act or from the widespread popular environmental movement we saw in the soviet union.
Today, around the world, the environmental movement is associated with the political left, and there's almost always backlash when governments try to implement new environmental policies from the right and from populists.
We think that, unfortunately, this backlash means that this policy won't be worthwhile.
Why?
Every time the right-wing populist base gets riled up about an environmental change, there is a great risk of having environmental policies rolled back.
It's almost a matter of not drawing their attention to environmental policy unless it's absolutely necessary.
I think that by implementing this policy, you make it much more likely that things like the EPA or like clean water and air regulations in the US and europe come up for review than what would happen otherwise.
If a legislature chooses not to engage with environmental policy at all, it's true that they're not improving the situation, but that also limits the possibility that it's going to be harmed in any way.
So we have to ask ourselves: is this policy worth the risk of having other policies rolled back?
And I think, quite clearly, the answer is no, because the impact of banning plastic bags is actually fairly small, and for all these reasons, we should not ban plastic bags.
Thank you.