We should introduce a smoking ban.
By this we mean that we should ban smoking completely in our cities.
We think that there are many reasons why this is the case but primarily it has to do with the obligation of the government to protect its citizens.
So in this speech I'm going to talk a lot about paternalism and why it applies in this instance.
So first of all, let's talk about secondhand smoke.
We think that the most important time for the government to limit individual's freedom is when an individual is harming a third party.
So it's one thing to let people destroy their own lives, although we'll talk about that in just a minute, but secondhand smoke can actually give people who don't smoke themselves lung cancer and this has been an increasingly large problem in the past especially with children growing up around parents that smoke.
We think it's clear that the government needs to step in when an individual's freedom is being violated and given that we assume people have a right to bodily autonomy and to good health, it's clear that the rights of someone who gets cancer from secondhand smoke or gets ill from secondhand smoke are being violated by the person who is smoking their cigarettes.
A useful metaphor to think about here is that your right to swing your fist ends where another person's face begins.
Well here your right to choose what you put in consume in your body ultimately ends when what you consumer or what you put in your body harms other people.
Now the other side might say that people can smoke in their apartment or in their house and not hurt anyone else, but the fact of the matter remains that nobody actually smokes in that way.
Everyone who goes out and goes to bars or has a job is going to have to smoke away from their house and that means that cigarette smoke is going to be exposed to people who don't smoke and who don't want to get cancer but are being affected by it through no fault of their own.
We think that this is a pretty compelling case for why the government needs to get involved to ban smoking and our second argument is about why the government should limit what individuals are allowed to do for their own sake.
We posit that no rational individual would choose to smoke in other words, if someone just sat down and tried to make a decision no one would ever choose to smoke.
People only begin because of outside pressure or because they're not able to make a good decision.
I think this is why if you ask people when did you start smoking a lot of people that I know and probably that you know as well say they started smoking because they were drinking and they started smoking whenever they would drink and then gradually they started smoking more and more when they weren't drinking until eventually they became a smoker and what we can take away from this is that one of the most common pathways for someone to become a smoker is to be unable to make a good decision because they're drunk and then to be put in an environment where lots of people are smoking like a bar.
We think that the government needs to intervene to protect people from themselves when they can't make a good decision.
In the same way that we don't let drunk people enter into contracts or make permanent decisions that affect their lives, we also probably shouldn't let them make a decision that affects their lives forever like becoming addicted to nicotine and the other side might say well plenty of people smoke who don't drink but those people probably live in cultures where cigarette smoking is normal and where there's a cultural pressure on them to smoke.
So even though smoking is very common in egypt and relatively few people drink for religious reasons, it's also a culture that encourages people to smoke that doesn't exist as much in the united states.
But we still think that that's coercive, right?
That if people are being pressured by their family and their friends to do something unhealthy, that they're not really able to make an unbiased decision but rather an emotional one.
So we think that people are being coerced or are being put into a position where they can't freely choose and therefore that it's justified for the government to get involved and to limit individual's freedom.
So for these two reasons, we should introduce a smoking ban because of the harms to individuals and to third parties.
Thank you.