We should not ban smoking.
Sam, in his speech, said that he interpreted this to mean that they would ban all tobacco.
We think that this would be a mistake and that the government should allow adults to make their own decisions.
I'm going to make two arguments, one about government overreach and the other about the effect that this would have in terms of its scope.
Some rebuttal will be integrated into this speech.
So, first: government overreach.
We think that government should only intervene to limit personal freedom in a few instances.
The first would be if there's unequal access to information.
So, for instance, governments don't let children enter into contracts because they just don't have the experience and the knowledge to make informed decisions, but we don't think that's the case here with smoking because, today, everyone knows that smoking causes cancer and that it's addictive.
We also think government can limit people's freedom in the event that they're hurting a third party, but I actually don't think that's the case here necessarily or that it's necessary to ban smoking for this reason.
Sam correctly points out that secondhand smoke can be just as bad as smoking, but there are ways to get around this that are less restrictive than a ban.
For instance, in los angeles, where I live, you can't smoke within twenty feet of a building so, you know, if you're at the bar and you want to have a smoke, you have to go way back in the alley.
You can't smoke at the front of the bar where everyone else has to breathe in your smoke.
So there's a less restrictive way to limit people's exposure to secondhand smoke than to totally ban smoking.
And then, sam also points out a third-party harm in higher insurance premiums, and I'll talk more about that in just a minute, but it seems quite marginal and not really the government's concern how high your insurance premiums go.
Yes, the government pays for insurance for some people, but because there are hundreds of millions of people involved in insurance in the states or tens of million in britain or in germany, we just don't think this is actually a very big concern.
Therefore, we think that it would be an overreach of the government's authority to ban smoking.
And, moreover, we don't think it would be the least restrictive thing the government could do.
Why does it matter that we do the least restrictive thing with state power?
Well, generally speaking, we think people deserve to live their lives as freely as possible, and sometimes we have to make sacrifices for the greater good.
But we should prefer the to ask people to make the fewest possible sacrifices, and that means using the least restrictive means.
And, therefore, we should allow smoking, with intelligent regulation.
I think sam has to defend a complete ban, and that's just obviously a worse solution than limiting where you can smoke or limiting advertising and the like.
Our second point is that banning smoking would actually not improve the status quo very much.
So, just a brief bit of rebuttal in terms of what sam said about insurance costs.
Insurance premiums are very high, but not just because of smoking.
And premiums are going to keep going up as long as insurance is for profit.
The problems with the US healthcare system cannot be attributed to marlboro or to other cigarettes.
We think that that's just unrealistic and that even if you ban smoking, the US would still have very high healthcare costs.
Why do we see that?
Well, even for people who are getting treated for other diseases, costs are dramatically inflated compared to what they are in europe.
So we just don't think that's the root of the problem, so nothing would change.
And in terms of the environmental harms that sam addressed, we think that people will litter, no matter what, and that cigarette butts, while it's true that they cause fires in the pacific northwest or in southern california, are not the only cause of fires, and that perhaps there's a better way that we could allow people to dispose of cigarettes or a better type of cigarette we could design that would limit the threat.
So, ultimately, because of this principle of using the least restrictive means, it's very clear that we should not ban cigarettes.
Thank you.