We should ban the use of chemical weapons.
On our side we think that there should be a total ban on the production, the storage, and the use of chemical weapons.
Many countries around the world have already agreed to stop production of chemical weapons, but we think that that doesn't go far enough and that existing stockpiles should be completely dismantled in a safe fashion.
We have two main arguments against continuing the use of chemical weapons.
The first is that chemical weapons lead to extremely high death tolls compared to conventional weapons.
If you look at past conflicts that have seen chemical weapon use, such as world war one or the iran-iraq war, we can see that chemical weapons kill enormous numbers of people in an extremely short amount of time.
And, indeed, that's the primary reason why they've been produced in the past.
We think that this is really harmful because modern conflict, in general, doesn't need to be as deadly as it is.
Infantry, small arms, and artillery can be very closely aimed and targeted at a particular goal or a particular area in a way that chemical weapons simply can't.
And as we see countries move more and more towards using things like precision strikes, special forces, smart bombs, etcetera, this kind of one-size-fits-all solution with chemical weapons doesn't make any sense anymore.
There's no reason to kill forty thousand people in a single day with a chemical weapons attack when, now, we can target leadership directly, or we can target particular goals directly with smart bombs.
It's been said before that if you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail, and I think that that's true with chemical weapons.
If you have a tool that can kill everyone in a large geographic area, then that seems like a great solution to any military obstacle that you face.
We see this in world war one, for instance, that chemical weapons were used to clear large areas of the battlefield so that infantry could try to advance.
But that probably wasn't the best possible solution to the problems that generals of world war one faced, seeing that armor was able to solve these problems in world war two with relatively lower death tolls, on a given day, in a particular battle.
We think that anything that makes war more costly is something that society ought try to move away from and that, ultimately, this is an extremely good reason to ban chemical weapons.
But I'd also like to point out a secondary use of chemical weapons that makes them particularly harmful.
Our second argument is that chemical weapons should be completely banned because of their use in ethnic cleansing.
One of the benefits of chemical weapons, if you want to call it that, is that it's very impersonal to kill lots of people with it.
You can kill people that you can't see.
You can kill large groups of people very quickly and very quietly, and that's one reason why genocidal leaders around the world have chosen to use chemical weapons in order to exterminate large groups of people.
The holocaust is a famous example of this.
Saddam hussein did this in the nineteen nineties to the kurds.
We can see that many genocidal regimes have relied on chemical weapons to quickly and efficiently exterminate minority groups in their country.
Ultimately, we think that it's much more difficult to get ordinary soldiers to go in and kill lots of civilians by hand than it is to have some artillery officers a mile away shell a city or to have soldiers kill people quietly with gas that doesn't look and feel like the traditional way and act of killing.
We think that if you got rid of chemical weapons, it would be much more difficult for leaders to get their militaries and their people to support genocide.
If people had to deal with the actual act of killing, we think that many people would be much more reticent to participate in these kinds of actions.
And, moreover, we also think that the types of regimes that are likely to commit genocide, such as those where military dictators are trying to solidify their power, are more likely to have access to chemical weapons than other weapons of mass destruction, so they're more likely to use these particular types of weapon in genocide.
For all these reasons, I'm proud to say we should ban chemical weapons.
Thank you.