We should ban corporal punishment in the home.
On our side, we're going to explain to you why this is a cruel practice and also about the long-term harms that it presents to children.
So, first, why is corporal punishment cruel?
Well, essentially, the idea of corporal punishment is that because adults are bigger than children, they should be able to beat them and violate their bodily autonomy in order to stop them from doing something bad.
And I think it's clear that this is cruel because nowhere that we would look to as a civil liberal country allows this behavior to be used for adults.
So, in US or EU prisons, you can't beat prisoners with a rod, but many people around the world make their children cut a switch or beat their children with a slipper or something analogous.
I think that it's clear that there's a double standard here therefore.
No one'd be okay with the government caning people in america the way that they do in singapore, but most americans or many americans, at any rate, are perfectly comfortable with a parent using a flip flop or a sandal to beat their child.
I think that oftentimes you can tell if something is a bad idea if you wouldn't allow it to be done to yourself, right?
Imagine if you didn't know how old you were, if you were behind some sort of magical veil that took away your knowledge of how old you were and where you lived and that sort of thing, would you want to live in a society that beats people for an arbitrary reason, namely that they're a child, or a society that doesn't?
Well I think almost anyone would want to be free of arbitrary violence in case it affects them and, therefore, that almost everyone would think that we should ban physical punishment of children.
This is absolutely cruel and unusual, and we can tell that because of our reluctance to apply it to prisoners or to other adults.
We're just treating children differently for something completely arbitrary, namely the year in which they were born, and subjecting them to a punishment that we don't even subject adults to although generally we try to protect children.
So it seems clear to me that because of this cruelty, we need to ban corporal punishment.
But our second argument is that even if you don't think it's cruel to beat your children, it still has negative long-term effects.
Children who beat are beaten are much more likely to beat their own children or their spouse when they become adults.
This shouldn't be that surprising.
Children learn norms and acceptable behavior from adults and once those norms are instilled in childhood, it's very difficult to change them later on.
So if you have children grow up in a family where violence is coded as acceptable, because if they do something bad they're going to be beaten by their mother or father, then obviously those people are going to grow up and think that violence is more acceptable than someone who didn't have violence in their home as a child.
So these people are more likely to be spousal abusers or to beat their children than people who weren't put in this position.
But, moreover, these children are also likely to have certain psychological issues.
Psychologists have found that children find it more difficult to trust their parents and other authority figures if they're beaten when they're young, so this can lead to people having trust issues throughout the course of their life.
So it seems clear that this can limit people's success and also that this has very acyclical harms, and I think that that's a pretty good reason for the government to step in.
Many people argue that they should be allowed to beat their children because it's a decision that only affects their child, but if this leads to someone being unable to work as effectively or unable to participate as effectively in society because of trust issues, and if this leads to someone beating their spouse or beating their children, then it's clear that this has effects on third parties and actually does go beyond just the confines of this one person's home.
So because it's cruel and unusual and because of the long-term damage that it does to children, we should ban corporal punishment.
Thank you.