We should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
So in this debate, we're going to argue for subsidizing the cultivation of tobacco in places where it has traditionally been a major part of the agriculture industry, so places like north carolina.
And we're okay with giving tax breaks in place of direct cash transfers, which I think undercuts much of what you heard from the last speaker about how subsidies involve direct transfers of wealth to certain companies.
In fact, we see that many subsidies take the form of tax breaks, so no money is actually being transferred to these companies or farmers.
They're just not being required to pay into the system.
With that in mind three arguments: first about how this impacts the affected communities.
We see that many communities, in places like eastern north carolina, have been blighted by the loss of the tobacco business.
In these areas, the soil is too poor to grow any other crop which is why tobacco was grown there to begin with, and in the absence of tobacco, no other industry has moved in.
There's literally no reason for any business to move into rural north carolina or virginia or other areas that have been affected by the loss of tobacco business.
These communities therefore have lost all of their tax base so they can't provide public services, and in addition, young people are leaving because there are no jobs are opportunities, which means that the communities are getting older and older without young people to care for them.
At that point, we think that these subsidies are a good way to help these communities to help themselves by putting money back into the community that has been leaving because of the loss of the tobacco industry.
If you care about helping those who are worst off, which we think every government should, then impoverished communities in the south are some of the poorest places in the united states, poorer than inner cities even, and are as deserving of public attention and support as inner cities that get more attention, generally speaking.
This affects hundreds of thousands of people.
It is not a small-scale problem.
Our second argument is about why it's good to keep production domestic.
Realize that whether or not you subsidize tobacco, it's still very likely that people will continue to smoke at the same rate.
People didn't stop smoking because they wanted to get rid of subsidies for tobacco.
They stopped smoking over time because, you know, they became more aware of health risks.
But at this point in twenty seventeen, everyone is already aware of the risks of smoking, so we think it's unlikely that more people are going to quit.
If anything, we think the rate of smoking is going to continue to grow globally as more people in india and china can afford to smoke.
At that point, the real choice is do we want china to produce most of the world's tobacco or do we want to do it in the united states?
We see no reason why you wouldn't want the US to have this big export cash crop, compared to other countries, at the point where demand for it still exists.
Realize that producing tobacco in the US doesn't mean it's consumed in the US.
It can be consumed globally.
So we'd like to keep that production here to provide jobs and bring money into this country.
Third and finally is about why we think that the government should support tobacco subsidies because of public will.
Even if the federal government decides they don't want to subsidize tobacco, we think that state governments in places like north carolina and virginia should do so.
In those states, as I mentioned before, thousands of people have lost their jobs in the tobacco industry, and thousands of other people have lost their jobs in secondary industries and tertiary industries that served the tobacco industry.
Think of the people who owned processing plants in winston-salem or people who owned businesses where tobacco workers used to shop.
These people want the state to step in to do something to protect their livelihood.
At that point, since a democratic government exists primarily to fulfill the wishes and desires of its people, we think that the state should intervene with these subsidies in order to protect their livelihood, and that this would be to the public good because it would bring more money into those states.
So for these reasons, we should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Thank you.