We should not abolish agricultural subsidies.
On our side of the house we're going to tell you why we shouldn't prefer one type of business over another and we're also going to talk about the effect this would have on the cost of food.
So rachel tells you in her speech that we should have subsidies for small businesses but not for large agro businesses and our first argument against this point is that it's wrong to preference inefficient farms over efficient ones and small businesses over large.
I know that there's a fetishization in american culture of small business but the reason why large businesses exist is because small businesses cannot provide the goods and services people need efficiently.
Every small business creates more overhead and is less efficient than a corresponding larger businesses and this is why essentially all agriculture today is done by large companies rather than small farmers.
Right, just to give an example of how this works: let's imagine that you have a company with a million acres of land, hypothetically, and a farm with a thousand acres of land.
They both need certain resources that are just fixed for instance, they both need a certain amount of tractors but where as the larger company can use those tractors over ten thousand acres, the small company is going to use them on a smaller amount of land and if we had a large group of these small farms that all had their own tractor then this would be much less efficient than having one large company that uses one tractor for that same amount of land.
So this is kind of a silly example, but you can see how there are certain costs that are fixed for doing business and that are much higher if you have many many small businesses rather than a few large ones.
But moreover, we don't see why small businesses are uniquely deserving of government subsidies.
Yes, it's true that the people who own them are less wealthy but remember that most large businesses are publicly traded so they're owned by the public.
So you might think oh well bankers are the people getting rich off of agro businesses but it's just as likely that your grandmother's IRA is invested in agra business as anything owned by goldman sachs.
So we think at the end of the day, that ordinary people benefit a lot from having these subsidies to large businesses.
The other side might say we shouldn't subsidize the rich but really you're making agriculture possible in your country in a way that that probably otherwise wouldn't be and also protecting people's investments and those investments are mostly coming from middle class people not from warren buffett and other super rich people.
So we think that actually there's no reason why small businesses deserve these subsidies more than large ones as rachel claims and secondly, we tell you that food cost would dramatically go up without subsidies and that this is true globally.
People all around the world benefit from cheaper food because of american corn subsidies to give one example.
An enormous part of the corn available for export every year globally comes from the united states and it's heavily subsidized.
As a result, even if you live in a fairly poor country you can still eat cheap corn because the american government pours money into it.
Similarly, low income americans benefit from cheaper food because corn is relatively cheap.
We think that if you abolish subsidies the price of food will dramatically increase and that the burden of more expensive food falls disproportionately on low income people as opposed to higher income people right?
Wealthy people pay the taxes that make those subsidies possible but they don't care how much a pound of corn costs whereas low income people care a lot about how much corn cost and don't really pay income tax into those subsidies.
So we can see that effectively this is a wealth transfer transfer from the wealthy to low income people and therefore that we ought to keep it around as much as possible to help those people make ends meet.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish agricultural subsidies.
Thank you.