We should not ban corporal punishment in the home.
I want to be very clear what we're arguing for in this debate.
We're not saying that corporal punishment is good, and we don't want to legalize child abuse, rather, we think that the line between what is and is not abuse is something that is culturally determined.
And I think that you can see that, in many western countries, this line has evolved over time, so that people once were okay with beating their children with paddles in school and, now, some parents choose not to use corporal punishment at all, whereas in many non-countries, for instance, corporal punishment remains completely normal.
We think that, ultimately, we would have people culturally decide what is and is not acceptable for their families, rather than try to impose one norm on all people.
Our first argument is that, unfortunately, sometimes corporal punishment is necessary.
While if you are a wealthy suburban american family, you probably have a lot of leverage over where your children are, and what they do, and what they consume, and you can use this to encourage them to behave appropriately, that's not the case for everyone.
If you live in a huge city in the developing world, it's probably much harder to ground your children, for instance, as a form of punishment.
So you can't get leverage over them that way.
You also probably can't take away their xbox because you have fewer material things that you can use as leverage over your children.
So if we accept that instilling discipline is sometimes necessary and that there have to be ways for parents to punish their children, and if we recognize that not everyone has access to the same tools that people do in suburban america or in major metro areas in the west, then you can see that sometimes, unfortunately, it may be necessary to use corporal punishment.
Obviously, this isn't a one-size-fits-all thing and it's something that we would rather weren't the case, but if it's true, then we think it would be unfortunate to ban corporal punishment, because parents will have to do it anyway, but now be vulnerable to legal action.
But our second argument is that this is unenforceable and that that leads to a lot of problems.
For the types of corporal punishment we're talking about, there's not going to be any way to actually enforce this ruling.
I think that, essentially, no children are going to report their parents for this and that no one's going to report members of their community for something that they think is a normal, effective parenting tool and that, as a result, the government's never going to know that people are disciplining their children in this fashion.
And, indeed, it seems likely to me that government officials will keep disciplining their children in this fashion if that's normal in their community.
So, as a result, you have essentially everyone breaking the law for something that's completely normal.
Why is that a problem?
If people think that the law is arbitrary or that it doesn't have anything to do with their everyday lives, then they're less likely to make decisions based on what the law tells them to do.
If we think of the law as kind of guidelines to public morality, when the law diverges too much from that public morality, people are less likely to look to it for guidance at all.
I think that this is really damaging because people are more likely to break other laws as a result, for instance, to say: well, they also ban animal abuse and other things and if they're wrong about one thing, I'm much less likely to be reported for breaking another law and I'm much less likely to care about what they say about another law.
So I think it's quite likely that if people are just routinely ignoring this law that's presumably something that would be strictly punished if anyone were caught, then they're likely to ignore other laws as well and just generally not to see courts and the justice system as a good way to resolve their problems, because it's so divorced from their experience and their expectations of what the law should be.
So this undermines government authority in a major way.
Because we think sometimes this is necessary in some communities and because of all the harms to people's view of the government that I've just explained, we should not ban corporal punishment.
Thank you.