We should not abolish nuclear weapons.
On our side we would contend that the period since nuclear weapons became available to multiple countries, nineteen forty nine, has been one of the most peaceful in human history.
That the great power conflicts which tore europe and the world apart in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century has become completely impossible due to the existence of nuclear weapons.
Two main arguments for our side.
First, about mutually assured destruction and second, about why it's better to have everyone know about nuclear weapons rather than have them in secret.
So first why is nuclear peace good and how does it work?
The idea behind mutually assured destruction is that if the united states and the soviet union both have enough nuclear weapons to immediately destroy each other and if those weapons can be launched before a strike reaches them from the other country, that it's much too dangerous for either country to attack the other.
If the soviet union, for instance, had attacked the united states everyone in moscow and saint petersburg and every other russian city would have been killed immediately.
Because of this there was no war between the united states and the soviet union even though you had two extremely powerful diametrically opposed armies in germany that were ready to go at each other at any time.
We can see that this has led to almost a period of global peace.
Yes, there have been wars between small countries or large and small countries, but the most dangerous type of conflict is one between two great powers, right?
If the united states invades iraq that's a tragedy and a million people die but if the united states invaded the soviet union a hundred and fifty million people might die, if we kind of scale up from world war two and the cost that that had.
Yes, economic integration has played a major role in peace but we think that the existence of this ultimate veto on conflict has been very important to establishing peace in the twentieth and twenty first centuries.
If you get rid of nuclear weapons then suddenly countries that have large, well equipped navies and armies have much less incentive to go to not to go to war.
The united states for instance could much more easily intervene to protect taiwan from china or to force the or the russians rather out of the ukraine than they can as long as one party has nuclear weapons and such a war could be extremely damaging and we think much more harmful than just having nuclear weapons that no one's going to use around.
Why will nobody use them?
Because of the aforementioned mutually assured destruction.
They're just not as risky as the other side would have you believe.
But our second argument is that it's better to have nuclear weapons in the open.
Right now every country that has nuclear weapons, except for israel, is very open about them and everyone knows that israel has nuclear weapons so it doesn't really matter that they officially deny it.
If you were to officially ban nuclear weapons, I think it's quite likely that most countries would just hide their nuclear weapons rather than actually get rid of them.
Why?
Well the deterrent of having nuclear weapons against conflict means that countries would have to be suicidal to get rid of them.
If you're a small country like pakistan next to a much more powerful country like india, nuclear weapons are the only way to guarantee your independence.
So we think that the alternative isn't a world without nuclear weapons, it's one in which no one knows who has nuclear weapons and that's a world where it's much more likely that nuclear weapons are used.
Why?
Well, one country might decide to invade another and then get a nasty nuclear surprise.
So we think that it's much more likely that one country will end up using nuclear weapons in a world where mutually assured destruction can't exist because no one knows who has nuclear weapons.
So because this undermines peace and because it makes it more likely that nuclear weapons are used, we should not abolish nuclear weapons.
Thank you.