Open primaries in the united states are not advantageous.
We believe this is true for three reasons.
First, we think that open primaries actually serve to silence debate.
We think that on the other side of the house, most of the arguments that they provide to you are also arguments in favor of adopting a california-style system where the two largest vote recipients in the primary go on to be on the ballot.
Now that might sound great at first, but what you end up with is a world where there are no republicans on the ballot from any statewide offices in california, and we think that that's really harmful.
Even if you don't like the message that these republican politicians spread, we still think that their supporters deserve an opportunity to be able to participate in this election, rather than to have two democrats on the ballot who probably have very similar views.
We think that this also switches the local narrative farther and farther away from the national narrative.
In other words, when you have one party who's able to gain a lot of control in a state because of this, ultimately we feel that it is likely that that state will be more disengaged from national politics and have a more difficult time protecting their own interest on the national scale.
But even if the other team wants to say they're not defending that, just the most basic form of open primaries, we still think that this silences debate.
Because what actually happens when you have open primaries is that both candidates have to pander more and more to the middle, rather than actually talk about what they plan to do when they take office.
We don't think that people's ideology changes when they campaign as a moderate.
We think they still have the same plans in mind, they just have more of an incentive to lie to get moderates to go out and vote in open primaries.
In a closed primary system, they can be open about what they actually intend to do because they only have to appeal to their base.
Our second argument is about corruption.
We think that there is a huge incentive for parties to try to undermine one another if there is an open primary.
For instance, we think that the republicans have an incentive to see the least electable democrat win the primary for say, governor of virginia.
So we think that the republicans have an incentive to: one, have their voters go vote in the democratic primary to vote for the worst candidate, and two, to run campaigns and other things that actually support candidates that they want to win, using their pac money.
We think that this is horrible because it means that the will of the people is being subverted and also on top of that, that you end up with worse candidates because you are intentionally selecting for people who are incompetent or otherwise not well-suited to do their job.
We think that creating these incentives is a massive harm of open primaries in that this can never happen with closed primaries, because it's a much greater commitment for people to change their party registration than it is to just go in and vote in a different primary.
Our last argument is a great response to some of the points that we heard in the last speech about partisanship.
So first of all, we think that people remain divided on the same issues.
People in america aren't going to change their views on things like abortion or gay marriage simply because their state has an open primary.
What's more likely to happen is that if you have a state where sixty percent of people are in favor of abortion and forty percent of people are opposed, but you have everyone going out to the polls and you end up with two pro-choice candidates on the ballot, that those people who were or pro-life all feel alienated and feel like they're shut out of the system.
We think that therefore you actually decrease buy in to the political system, increase people opting out and choosing not to engage and on top of that, that you only entrench their beliefs further because they don't feel like they ever got a fair shot at actually having their voice heard.
They're more likely to retreat and become more extreme and have less faith in democracy.
But on top of that, we think that it's unlikely that on their side of the house they actually increase participation from moderate voters or unregistered voters, because those people don't care enough to vote in the status quo.
What they don't tell us is why people who aren't committed enough to take a side on very polarizing issues are suddenly going to go out to the polls.
So we don't think that more moderates are going to vote if you have open primaries.
We think it'll be the same people voting in more pernicious ways.
So for these reasons, we think that open primaries are not advantageous.
Thank you.