We should ban live exports.
For those who don't know, live exporting is the practice of exporting live animals, usually sheep and cattle, from the country where they were raised to another country for slaughter.
One country that does a lot of this is australia.
Australia has a pretty small population, only twenty four or so million people, but it's one of the world's largest producer of sheep and cattle, and many of these sheep and cattle are exported to other countries to be slaughtered.
Many people believe this leads to a fresher, higher quality product at point of purchase, but we're going to explain why the harms outweigh that benefit.
Our first argument is that this practice is cruel and unnecessary.
When these animals are sent abroad for live export, they're crammed into huge holding ships and have very, very poor conditions.
They're packed in so tightly they can barely move.
They're kept in total darkness for days at a time.
Their waste products go everywhere and get all over them and damage their feet.
Many of them are crushed by their comrades and, ultimately, this is just an absolutely unacceptable practice.
If animals were kept in these conditions in australia or other countries, it would certainly be illegal, but this is very common on these ships, because they're not bound by the laws of how the animals are treated in australia.
We think that because these animals are produced by australian farmers and are oftentimes exported by australian companies that they should be held to a much higher standard.
But that would make the ships unprofitable and the industry would die, which we think is a good thing, because it's predicated and only exists because of animal abuse.
Just to give an example of the scale that we're talking about here: on one ship, because too many sheep were packed into it, four thousand sheep died on the way from new zealand to saudi arabia, and that was just one particular shipment.
These animals, because they died and then were trapped in a ship's hold covered in their own waste for days, couldn't even be used in saudi arabia, so it was all for nothing.
We think that this practice is disgusting and wasteful and needs to end.
Our second argument is that it's just unnecessary in today's day and age.
A hundred years ago, when it was much harder to ship high quality frozen meat, it might have been much more desirable for consumers to have something slaughtered in their own country.
But, nowadays, we can freeze meat extremely quickly to an extremely cold temperature in such a way that the quality of the meat doesn't degrade from the fact it was frozen.
Similarly, we don't think that people's aesthetic preference for fresher meat is worth all of the suffering that we described earlier.
Sure, I would rather eat chicken that is fresh rather than chicken that is frozen, but if that means that those chickens have to be kept in astronomically bad conditions, just the most abhorrent conditions that no living creature should have to go through, clearly, it's not worth it for me to get a chicken breast that's ten percent tastier.
And, in fact, most people probably can't tell the difference between frozen and fresh meat anyway.
They only prefer fresh meat because that's what they've been told is better.
And our last argument is that this is really bad for the environment.
The demand for meat that is shipped in this way drives up the carbon footprint of eating meat even higher.
Meat is already really bad for the environment because you have to feed all of this grain to the animals in order to grow them, and that means that they're consuming huge amounts of resources, but shipping them all the way from australia to saudi arabia or other countries just adds a huge level to this problem.
It makes these animals even more damaging to the environment, and it makes their consumption even worse for global warming.
We think that although there are some benefits in terms of the product people receive that these harms dramatically outweigh them.
For all of these reasons, we should ban live export.
Thank you.