We should not privatize water.
On our side, we think it's better to have municipally owned or publicly owned water companies rather than private water companies.
Even if the municipality still owns the infrastructure, we think it's better to have it operated and maintained by a public company rather than a private one for three main reasons: first, human rights, second, why this is a natural monopoly, and third, about avoiding abuse.
We think that one main reason why governments need to provide people water is because this is a fundamental human right.
People simply cannot live their lives if they don't have access to affordable water.
It would be impossible for them to bathe, to get enough water to drink, to wash their clothes and other things if water prices went up.
We think that the demand for water is pretty inelastic.
That's just " economist speak " for the idea that people are going to use the same amount of water whether it cost very, very little or whether it cost a lot, because people just need a certain amount of water to live their lives.
So what that means is that this is probably something the government should provide.
We think that because this is necessary to facilitate all of the other rights that people have to live their life in a democratic society, that the state needs to step in and make sure that they're able to do so regardless of their wealth, that people have equal access to water no matter what, and offering extremely cheap subsidized water is the only way to do that in this instance.
Our second argument is that this is a natural monopoly.
Essentially, any city is only going to have one set of pipes for water.
The reason this is important is because it makes competition impossible.
If you aren't going to have two water delivery systems, which would be extremely expensive and maybe even impossible, then that means that one company is going to dominate the market.
We think that this will lead to drastically increased prices because there's no competition, also, lower quality of service and, probably, poor maintenance of infrastructure because this company has no competition to keep them honest.
We can understand why you might want to privatize government services that would allow competition, like the railroads in britain, for instance.
Not that that went well, but we can understand why someone would think you should privatize it.
But with water, there's just no room for competition.
The other side might say that more than one company can sell access to water the way some companies do with cable, but we don't see how that would actually drive down costs, because it would be artificial competition.
Instead, because this is a monopoly, we think it's better to have the state maintain it and not price gouge people, and maintain the infrastructure, and things like that.
And, finally, we think that this is necessary to avoid the abuse of the investors.
If you think about the incentives of a publicly owned company, they want to make sure that people can access a service.
They don't care about the cost because they get subsidized.
They don't care about making money from people, because the employees get paid either way.
And you might say that this makes them lazy and less likely to innovate but, frankly, there's no room for innovation on providing water to people's homes in twenty eighteen.
We think that if you have a private company, they have every incentive to squeeze as much money as possible out of people.
Why?
Well, if it's publicly traded, and this probably would be since it would be quite a large company, then they have a legal obligation to make as much money as possible for their shareholders.
If it's privately owned, than the owner presumably wants to make as much money as possible.
As a result, they're going to try to cut service to the bare minimum, cut costs to the bare minimum, and charge as much as people are able to pay.
This means that they're going to price gouge people and that they're going to cut off service to anyone who can't pay.
We think that because this means that the those worst-off in society are going to lose service and that because this is going to make people have to spend an inordinate amount of money on water that it would be unjust to privatize the water supply.
Thank you.