We should not legalize doping in sports.
We agree with the other side's model that this would be sports leagues allowing their members to use these drugs like anabolic steroids, but we think ultimately this would be harmful for sport and for society.
Our first argument is that legalizing steroids and other drugs would be coercive to athletes.
Why is this true?
If you are a baseball player and every other batter in your league is using steroids then they hit the ball farther and better than you do without steroids.
The only way for you to compete in and to keep your job is to take steroids.
So what this means is that if you allow steroid use and some athletes begin using steroids, then suddenly there's an arms race of sorts where everyone in the league now has to use steroids.
Even people who would prefer not to for health reasons or because it's against their beliefs are going to be compelled to use steroids or risk losing their job.
And we'd also like to point out that aside from the financial pressure that people might face, that they also face a social pressure.
The last speaker talked about the idea that fans will like sports better if the athletes are taking steroids, but I think that that also indicates that the fans and society as a whole will pressure athletes who are uncomfortable with doing so into taking steroids.
So we think that ultimately this would be very coercive to the athletes and undermine their ability to make decisions about their bodies for themselves.
So for that reason we shouldn't legalize doping in sports.
Our second argument is that this sends a poor message to fans.
In the world right now, many people admire athletes because of the hard work that they do.
You often see commercials on TV that show athletes training at the gym or running or otherwise working very hard.
But the message, once you allow anabolic steroids, is that hard work isn't enough.
You need hard work and drugs to be successful.
So we think that this undermines the messaging that athletes are working extremely hard because people can see that they need a crutch in order to be successful.
And what's more, we also think that the public is likely to resent this because there's so much public opposition to drug use.
Since most people don't approve of people using drugs, we think that they won't approve of athletes using drugs either.
So we think that there are two problems with the messaging of legalizing doping.
First that people won't respect the hard work that goes into sports and this will undermine some of the value of hard work in many people's minds, and secondly that there will be backlash against the athletes because people will resent their drug use.
Our third and final argument is that this sets up a double standard for athletes and for everyone else.
Presumably, even if major league baseball or the premier league allow the use of steroids, ordinary people are not going to be able to go down to the corner and pick up a big box of steroid pills.
Instead, ordinary people will be held to one standard where these are criminalized or very difficult to get and professional athletes will have take them every day and have trainers give them to them and have very easy access.
We think that fundamentally this is unfair, that professional athletes are no more deserving of being allowed to use steroids than anyone else.
We think that at the point where there are clearly some benefits to allowing performance enhancing drugs, that they should be open to everyone, not just a footballers or basketball players or who have you.
And what's more, if we allow one career path, namely athletes to take advantage of performance enhancing drugs, why shouldn't we allow scientists and researchers to take amphetamine?
Why shouldn't we allow pilots and truck drivers to use meth to stay awake for long periods of time?
Ultimately it seems hypocritical to allow one profession to take advantage of illegal drugs while denying every other profession the ability to do the same.
So for all these reasons, we should not legalize doping in sports.
Thank you.