We should oppose doping in sports.
We should not legalize the use of performance enhancing drugs in sports, even if they're non-addictive and non-psychoactive.
A few reasons why, but before I get into my own constructive arguments, I'd just like to counter some things we heard from the last speaker, because we tell you that sports were great before steroids.
We see that people were still filling up soccer stadiums in the nineteen forties, long before steroids were in use in their modern form.
In the same way, we see that many people consider that the golden age of baseball, for instance, was long before the doping scandals of the nineteen nineties.
We tell you that ultimately you can access all of the benefits of thrilling sports, of encouraging young people to work hard and things like that, without the use of doping.
With that in mind, two main arguments for our side.
The first is that doping in sport sends a bad message to young people.
We think it's important that young people are taught that they need to be themselves and that they need to work hard in order to solve their problems.
Doping undermines both of these messages.
Because effectively, when you have people doping, it's an admission that being themselves is insufficient to succeed, that their body is not good enough and that no matter how hard they work, through natural methods, they will always have to take chemicals in order to be good enough to compete.
I'll come back to this later.
But it also tells young people that it's acceptable to take the easy way out.
Many athletes don't take steroids in order to surpass their own natural peak.
They take steroids instead of ever reaching that natural peak.
We see, for instance, that many young athletes who are caught using steroids do so in order to bulk up, to be as large as older athletes, or that they start taking steroids when they're relatively young, so they never know what their natural peak is.
Effectively, people just want to get strong and fast as quickly as possible, not through hard work but through taking what amount to magical drugs that make them the best that they physically can be.
Young people are likely to take these messages away to other parts of their life.
They're likely to try to change themselves and deny who they are in their personal lives because their heroes are doing this on television.
And on top of that, they're likely to cheat in school, to do things like take adderall without a prescription to do better in their classes.
Ultimately, we think that this creates a culture that's more accepting of cheating and it's more accepting of relying on drugs as a crutch than the one we have right now.
This undermines self sufficiently sufficiency, and we think ultimately is a poor message to send to young people.
Our second argument is that this is a violation of personal autonomy of athletes.
This is true because in a world where some people are doping in your sport, everyone has to dope.
Effectively what happens is let's say you're an athlete who doesn't dope right now and other athletes in your sport, let's say, baseball, begin doping, suddenly, even if you're very good at baseball before people begin doping on a wide scale, you are at a disadvantage relative to people who are taking steroids.
If everyone were natural, maybe you would be one of the best hitters in the major league baseball league.
But we tell you that when some people start doping, they surpass you, even if their natural talent is less.
Now the only way to maintain your position as one of the best batters in the league is to begin taking steroids.
And this is effectively what happened in america in the nineteen nineties, as we saw every major baseball batter started taking steroids because it was the only way to keep up with the other batters who were taking steroids.
This is a few harms.
First of all, people right now have a choice about what they want to put into their body in terms of drugs.
You lose that choice if your livelihood is tied to taking steroids, which I've already explained will happen.
But on top of that, we tell you that people are likely to be forced to experiment with new and different steroids in order to succeed.
In other words, in order to keep up with the people who are taking existing human growth hormone, whoever it may be, you will be pressured into taking different steroids, different drugs, and this creates a cycle where everyone is experimenting with new drugs.
People are putting their health at risk, and nobody is doing as well as they could naturally, in terms of their physical health.
So for all of these reasons, we should say no to doping in sports.
Thank you.