We should not abolish intellectual property rights.
I think that the first issue that we need to identify here is what do we mean by intellectual property rights.
I think it's clear that we're talking about things like patents and trademarks and copyrights and not just something as simple as movie rights and the like.
So these are things that have a very real impact on the physical world.
They're not just something that exists out in the either.
So with that in mind, we have a couple of arguments for our side.
The first is about incentivizing creation, and the second is about how this works internationally.
So on the first point: people are less likely to create intellectual property if they don't know if they'll be able to benefit from it in the long term.
Let's think of someone who wants to make a movie, for instance.
It cost millions of dollars and takes an enormous intellectual effort to create a unique idea for a movie and then see it through to completion.
Why would you do that if someone in china can then just put your movie in theaters on their own and not pay you any royalties?
Why would you go through the trouble of creating memorable, unique characters if you know that people are just going to create their own films and not credit you at all using those characters?
We think that the impact of this is that people will invest much less of their time and effort into creating intellectual property.
This has many harms.
First, culturally, you'll see a much reduced output of films and books and other types of cultural goods that rely on intellectual property because artists won't be able to support themselves anymore.
There will be no way for a musician or an author to pay their bills if they can't make money off of their work.
So even if you think that copyright should end at the artist's death, it's clear that at least during the time that they're alive, they need copyright in order to be able to feed themselves and their families so that they can keep producing their work.
But on a more concrete level, you'll also see things like less drug development.
It cost over a billion dollars to develop a new pharmaceutical drug.
Why would any company spend a billion dollars on something that'll then be copied by other companies and sold at a much lower price than they'll be able to offer it for.
Instead, companies will just focus on producing drugs that already exist, and we won't see as many new cures developed unless governments are willing to pay for them.
Ultimately, that would lead to a much reduced amount of pharmaceutical drug production in the long term.
And the last thing I'd like to talk about is why we need to reward people for creativity in the first place.
If you want people to be creative, then you need to offer them some sort of reward to incentivize them to develop those skills.
So were fewer people have unique skills in a world where you don't allow intellectual property rights, so we think that this is a huge reason not to abolish them.
But our second argument is that if your country abolishes intellectual property rights, you'll become an international pariah.
Why is this true?
Well, first of all, we see this to a certain extent in the status quo, where countries like india have a harder time being allowed to produce or import drugs from the west because it's known that indian companies often circumvent patents or copyrights in order to produce those drugs at a lower cost for the indian market.
We see that this ultimately harms people because they can't access the newest treatments from the US, germany, and other more developed countries.
But moreover, in places like china, where you have lots of violation of property rights for things like software, many companies just won't license their software for use in china.
So people aren't able to legally get access to what they need.
This makes it harder for your workers to interact with the rest of the globe.
It disincentivizes foreign direct investment and ultimately makes it harder for your country to catch up with the more developed countries.
So we think, therefore, that this is a really bad policy for any government to implement.
For all of these reasons, we think it's clear that we should not abolish intellectual property rights.
Thank you.