We should not ban partial birth abortions.
So we're going to argue that abortion should not be limited to the first trimester or the first half of pregnancy but rather that it should be allowed very late in the pregnancy.
I'm not sure about the medical implications of extremely late abortions so we'll say it should be done during the period in which this is safe for the mother.
We have three arguments for our side: the first is that the first trimester is not enough time for people to make the decision whether or not to have an abortion.
The other side tells you that they are okay with allowing people to exercise their choice during the first few months of pregnancy.
But we think that there are many reasons why someone might need or want an abortion, very reasonably, after that time period.
First of all, there are people who for medical reasons need to get an abortion later on.
This might include somebody who finds out that they can't have the birth safely, they might discover that the fetus has severe defects and wouldn't have any quality of life if carried to term, there are many reasons why someone might choose to get this abortion.
We also think that for certain people, their body may show signs of pregnancy later than other people, so they wouldn't have enough time to make a decision in the period permitted.
And lastly, we think that because this is such a weighty choice that we ought to allow people to reconsider it as new information, or new opportunities to reflect on the situation, come to light.
In other words, we shouldn't force people to make a rush decision in the first couple months of pregnancy.
We should let them think through more thoroughly.
So our next point then obviously is about the ethics of whether or not late term abortions are acceptable.
The other team's ethical framework is that we should defer to protecting the fetus is life because we don't know whether or not it's it is a human life.
So basically they're adopting a principle that we should try to do the least harm whenever possible.
That's the guiding moral principle, I think fairly charitably, of the other side.
But we think that that's a poor guiding principle.
Because ultimately it's difficult to assess harm.
How can we weigh the harm to the fetus, of not being born, versus the harm to the mother of having this child that she doesn't want and the emotional harms or the risk of a difficult pregnancy?
We think that while in many cases it might come down on the side of the fetus, it will be different in every instance, and moreover that we always lack information to make these judgments.
We think there's a far simpler rule which we can apply which will return better results.
Which is that we ought not use human beings as a means to an end.
Realize that when you prevent women from having an abortion you are using them as a tool to bring this child to birth.
Basically, you are treating them like an incubator that can get this child to the point of being born.
But we think that this is dehumanizing and disrespectful of the will and the desert of respect of the mother in this instance.
We think that it would always be better if we deferred to allowing people maximum choice so that they can make decisions, rather than treating them as a tool to get some end which we desire.
Our third and final argument then, is about why even if you think that this is enough time for people to make a decision and even if you think that we should rely on utilitarianism rather than deontology, that the black market that emerges would ultimately undermine the ban.
Because what happens when you make it difficult for people to get abortions?
They don't stop getting abortions.
Instead they get them done in unlicensed doctors offices or in back alleys and they're done in a very unsafe way.
This puts the mother at potentially great risk if she is part of a botched abortion or if there's an infection or if there are complications.
So we think that in reflection of the safety of the mothers, many of whom may be relatively young, we should keep this safe and legal rather than ban it so that it goes to the black market.
For all these reasons we should not ban partial birth abortions.
Thank you.