We should legalize doping in sport.
So we're talking about steroid use, human growth hormone, all of that good stuff, and by sport we mean, you know, track and field, anything that would be an olympic style event we think would constitute sport for the purposes of this debate.
And it'll legalize we think that not only should it be allowed by a country's criminal justice system, but also that regulatory bodies like the international olympic committee, or national bodies like the national basketball association, should allow the use of these doping techniques.
So three arguments for you.
The first is that we think that it's unfair to set arbitrary limits on what substances are and are not okay.
Recognize that banning a substance is always a post hoc thing.
What we mean by that is that scientists or doctors or trainers are always looking for new drugs that will give athletes some advantage over their peers, and these drugs can't be banned until after they've already been in use enough that they come to the attention of the regulators.
What this means is that if you're an early adopter of the drug, you get to use it while it's still legal and nothing bad will happen to you, and you get a bunch of benefits, and then later adopters get punished.
We think that this is grossly unfair.
You shouldn't reward some athletes for being willing to discover a new drug before it happens to get banned and then moving on to the next thing, and then punish someone else for doing the same thing a few years later.
At the end of the day, we think that first of all it's arbitrary what is and isn't allowed.
There were many things that are allowed for so called medical purposes and not allowed just for the benefits of the steroid, so people have fake medical issues.
But on top of that, we think it's arbitrary to say that, oh, it's too much of an advantage for someone to take this hormone, but not too much of an advantage for someone to take that hormone.
At the point where nobody is competing completely natural, we just don't think you can ever draw a fair line.
The other side of this debate needs to draw a clear line in the sand for when doping suddenly becomes unacceptable.
Our second argument is that the optics of so called cheating harm sports.
So recognize that whenever a major athlete gets caught doping, there is a massive amount of backlash, many people stop watching the sport, and you lose a lot of fans.
A good example of this would be barry bonds.
Barry bonds was a player in major league baseball a little more than ten years ago who was one of the best guys in the league, and ultimately got caught using steroids, and there was a lot of backlash.
The media was up in arms over the fact that barry bonds was a cheater, people were angry at at the MLB, the the league for allowing this to go on.
People were angry at his team for presumably sanctioning this behavior.
I think that a lot of young people probably didn't play baseball because of their parents' reaction to this whole scandal surrounding barry bonds.
And ultimately that's the worst thing that can happen as a result of an athlete doing something that's questionably ethical, is for this behavior to change the way that young people look at the sport.
Because if in the future, fewer kids are playing baseball as a result, then that hurts the quality of play, it hurts our nation's ability to compete internationally, and also we think that there's something intrinsically valuable to a cultural institution like baseball in the united states, or like football in other countries.
And ultimately, we think that that is harmed by this optics of cheating.
If you get rid of the ban, then you lose out on all of these harms.
Our third argument is about quality of play.
We think that, obviously athletes play better when they're doping.
What this means is that you get more fans, because when people say are watching basketball, they want to go out and see incredible slam dunks and shots that nobody would ever have been able to make a few years ago, and the best way to ensure that that happens is to have doping, so the athletes can perform at the highest level.
And remember, it's not like athletes don't have to train in order to do well.
Doping is just a supplement to training.
So I think that you ultimately get better play, which leads to more fans.
This means more money for athletes in the league, and also that there are more fans enjoying the sport which we think is something that's intrinsically good.
So for these three reasons, we should legalize doping in sport.
Thank you.