American jobs act brought more good than harm.
So, we think that this debate is fundamentally about whether or not on balance the american jobs act offered something that was good for the american people or bad for the american people.
Obviously, there's always going to be some winners and losers.
So, a little bit of background: this was a twenty-eleven stimulus bill proposed by president obama to fund job training, unemployment insurance and tax reductions.
It included tax increases for the wealthy and cuts to payroll taxes which are paid by every american who works and it was focused on creating so called shovel-ready jobs by promoting infrastructure and other types of large-scale building projects.
So, we have two arguments in favor of the american jobs act: the first is about good spending, so to speak.
Obviously, the american government spends lots of money frivolously, but we think that this would have been a really good way for the american government to spend money back in twenty-eleven.
First of all, interest rates were historically low at the time, effectively zero, which means that the government could borrow lots and lots of money and not pay any interest on it.
This is the perfect time to engage in some large-scale spending, of course, because it's cheaper than borrowing money at a time when interest rates are higher and you're going to be paying a lot of interest on it.
It's similar to getting a personal credit card with an introductory zero percent rate.
That's the time when you want to spend money, not later when it's going to collect twenty percent interest.
Furthermore, infrastructure is a good investment because it has a long-term value.
If you build an airport now and you borrow money at zero percent, you're going to be using that airport for fifty, sixty years, even longer, the airport in boston goes back before world war two, and so you're going to keep using that airport long after the debt is paid off.
So, at that point the airport is going to be debt-free and you're going to get an excellent amount of value for your money at this particular time.
But moreover, this is good spending because it helps some of the neediest americans, namely those with little education.
Back in twenty-eleven when we had very little economic growth and the financial crisis was quite recent, those who hadn't gone to college, who didn't have a lot of opportunity, were really struggling to get jobs because things like building that had employed lots of them fell off after the housing crisis.
So, this would've been spending targeted to help some americans who really needed help from the government at that time.
And what's more, we think that this type of spending would encourage secondary private spending which would lead to economic growth.
If you spend a lot of money to build an airport or a train station, then businesses are going to open up nearby to serve that airport or whatever you may be building and businesses are going to open up to serve the people working on the project and ultimately, you're going to encourage economic growth which is what stimulus is all about.
Not just spending money, but encouraging private people to spend money and thus, get the economy growing again.
So, our second point is that we think that the tax adjustments that were part of the american jobs act are fundamentally fair and necessary.
So, a payroll tax in america is a tax that's a flat rate, say, ten percent, on every single person's paycheck every month that gets taken out and goes to things like social security for elderly people.
Meanwhile, the wealthy in america pay some of the lowest rates of tax of any group of people in highly developed countries.
The income tax is not terribly progressive and capital gains tax, which is the tax paid on investment, is very very low in the united states.
So, what we see is that there's a fairly high flat tax on income for everybody and relatively low taxes on the kind of money that wealthy people have.
We think that this is unfair, particularly in times of economic stress, like twenty-eleven.
The increased marginal value of another dollar is much lower to a wealthy person than a poor person, because for a poor person, that might be the difference between paying your bills this month and, for a wealthy person, it's the difference between a yacht or a slightly larger yacht.
So, we can see that we want the wealthy to pay more taxes relative to their income than the low-income people because the money doesn't mean as much to them.
Therefore, we need to shift the tax burden away from the or away from low-income people and onto the wealthy and the american jobs act would have done just that.
So, for these reasons, we think it would have brought more good than harm.
Thank you.