We oppose the american jobs act for a few reasons.
The first one that I want to talk about is why we don't think that you should raise taxes during times of economic strain.
We tell you that raising taxes does not increase revenues.
It's easy for government to think that if they increased tax rates, more money will come in.
But we tell you that as you increase the rate of taxation, you increase the incentive for people to avoid paying taxes.
And in a country like the united states, with an extremely complex tax code, this is relatively easy to do.
Many people who currently pay their taxes because the rate is low enough that it doesn't make sense to spend money to avoid their taxes, would do so if the rate were to go up.
We see that this has happened in the past.
Under jimmy carter the united states had a tax top tax bracket of over ninety percent, but revenues were actually lower than they were in the early eighties when that bracket was cut down to about forty five percent, because when the tax brackets fell, people had more of an incentive to pay their taxes.
We also tell you that on their side they're going to get less spending in the economy.
The first speaker was correct.
We tell you that less consumption is ultimately harmful for business.
If people are giving more money to government, then they aren't spending that money at local or national businesses, they're not consuming goods and services to drive the economy.
The other team might try to tell you that the government is going to spend this money in a way that will grow the economy, but we think that the government is inefficient, because you're paying a huge bureaucracy to filter the money through to where the economy will actually grow, instead of allowing the money to flow where it will naturally.
So we think that that's a huge inefficiency.
Our second point is that we think that on their side, that they don't have a real path to getting better infrastructure in america.
We agree that america needs better infrastructure and we think that this part of the bill is a good idea, but we think that it's a better idea to borrow money to fund the infrastructure, rather than to raise taxes to pay for it.
We think that we agree, you have to spend money to make money, it's just about where the money comes from.
In twenty twelve and up to the present, you have very low interest rates, below one percent.
So the american government can basically borrow money for free, because they're going to be paying one percent on the money that they borrow.
We think that if the american government were to borrow money to build airports or roads or what have you at one percent, this would be a very good deal because effectively they can pay for an investment that will be used for a long period of time, like an airport or a road that might be used for thirty or forty years, and then pay it off gradually with very little cost to borrowing this money.
And we think that it's easy for america to borrow money because so many countries around the world buy american bonds because they're so reliable.
We think that this will lead to more confidence in the economy, because the government will be investing rather than raising taxes that make it harder for people to do business.
We think that will actually decrease confidence in the economy and lead to less spending and lead to more money going abroad, as you heard about from the last speaker.
Now I'd like to respond briefly to a couple of arguments that we heard in favor of the bill.
So first of all, regarding stagnation.
We tell you that the reason that the US has low economic growth is because there's little confidence in the economy.
But you reduce that confidence further by making it more expensive to do business by raising taxes, so they'll actually get a worse economy and fewer jobs on their side.
Regarding this idea of geographic alignment.
No part of president obama's plan actually benefits the most deprived areas of the united states.
States like ohio or michigan that are very post industrial and don't have a lot of investment.
Because the tax income coming in is all going to go to washington, but a lot of it is going to go back to the very same wealthy states that they talk about on their side as being better off.
So we tell you that this isn't going to work, and you can't make states spend money.
If they were unwilling to expand medicaid, we don't see why they're going to be willing to take the president's money in this stance.
And last regarding investment.
The market is doing very well right now because there's nowhere else for people to keep their money.
So we don't think that this is actually the problem that we hear about, and we don't think that they'll actually be able to increase investment by raising taxes.
So for these reasons we oppose the american jobs act.