We think that these prenatal diagnoses are unfair to atypical people and that they preference one type of human experience over another.
We tell you that there is fundamentally no line in the sand, no clear break between so called serious and acceptable disorders or disabilities.
When the opening speaker for the other side says that parents naturally want their children to have the easiest and most convenient life, we tell you that this opens up some serious questions.
The other side has to defend selecting against any perceived defect, even if it's something that is not seen why there's a defect in our society, if that means that it would give the child an easier or more convenient life.
People who are taller make more money, should we select against fetuses which are likely to have a smaller stature?
Or darker skin which is more likely to be to a confrontation with the police in many countries?
Should we select against anything that makes someone's life more difficult?
The logical outcome this is a world which is much less diverse and much less rich than the world that we have right now.
So we stand fundamentally opposed to this sort of prenatal diagnosis.
So our main point of substantive material to defend our side is that we think that at the end of the day, this is tantamount to eugenics.
So we tell you that you should judge an action by its outcomes.
In other words, if it looks like a rose and it smells like a rose, it is a rose.
But in this case what we're talking about is effectively erasing all populations that don't meet some societally constructed notion of what it means to be normal.
Because remember at the end of the day, there's no such thing as a normal person.
There's nothing normal about being taller or having fairer skin or looking like a supermodel, or whatever people might slot for to give their children an easier and more convenient life.
The other team might say that those are unfair examples, but at the end of the day what is the bright line here?
Many people live deeply fulfilling and wonderful lives who happen to be blind or deaf.
Would the world really be better off if those people didn't exist?
Because that's the logical outcome of the arguments that we hear from the other team.
We tell you that entire communities will be eliminated.
Consider the deaf community.
So there are large communities around the world to people who communicate in sign language, and who actually see deafness as something that brings them together and not as something that hinders their lives, and we think that that community has every bit as much right to exist as anyone else's.
But when you allow this policy, you are essentially having parents choose before their child is born not to let them be a part of this community, and we think that that is unfair.
We also would like to pose the following question: if you had two deaf parents who wanted to have a deaf child so that that child could integrate more fully into their community, should the courts or doctors allow them to select for a deaf fetus?
So we think that principally on their side, they're caught in a bind here, because either they're in favor of giving parents the right to choose what they think will get the best life for their child, which two deaf people might well thinks to make their child deaf, or following societal norms for what is the best, in which case most people probably think that he being hearing is better than being deaf.
So we think that either, on their side, they have to infringe on the rights of parents to choose, or they have to infringe on the right of the child to have an easy convenient life.
We don't think that they can have it both ways, and we think that that is going to cost them the debate.
But we also tell you that nobody would accept a a policy that involved killing deaf babies, or removing babies that are likely to have unfortunate genes.
So we don't see why you should be okay with preventing these people from being born.
Because ultimately, the outcome is the same.
You are eliminating diversity and you are making posterity poorer by making their society less diverse.
We think that this will lead to less engagement, different ideas, and ultimately make everyone worse off.
So for these reasons we are opposed to prenatal diagnoses.
Thank you.