Atheism is the only way.
So, what we mean by this is that one ought not believe in an omniscient, omnipotent, omnibenevolent god.
So a god who's all knowing, all powerful, and always good or just.
So basically, don't believe in the god of the bible or the koran.
Two big arguments for this on our side.
The first is about the problem of evil.
So this is an idea first proposed I think by the greek philosopher epicurus, who said that given that the world is an evil place full of terrible things, it is impossible that there should be a god who is all knowing, all powerful, and always good.
Here's why.
If there were such a god who is all knowing, then that god would understand the nature of evil in the world, would understand that there are people who are dying from easily preventable illnesses, people are being treated in awful ways, genocide is occurring, the world is a terrible place.
And if this god is all powerful, then the god could step in and end that at any given time, god could snap its fingers and everyone around the world would be delivered from suffering, there'd be no more hunger, no war, no pain, and it would be instantaneous.
And if that god were always good, then clearly they would choose to do so, because evil is the antithesis of good.
So we can see that it's impossible that there should be a god who has these powers, because we observe that evil exists.
Now the best thing that the other side could say, would be to retort that it is not for human beings to decide what is good or evil, that we must defer to god and believe that god has a plan and that there's a reason for all the evil that we see.
But we think that given that this god presumably created the universe, because nothing could create this sort of being other than itself, given that this god created the universe, it could have chosen to create a universe where none of this evil was necessary.
So even if, within the confines of our world, it was a requirement that there be genocide and things like that, god could just as well have created a world where we had cotton candy to fulfill that role instead.
So we think that it's patently absurd for people to believe that such a god exists, when the physical evidence is all around us.
That it does not.
So even if there is some sort of divine being with lots of power over us, it can't be what we call god in this debate, because it is choosing not to end hunger and genocide and all of these other terrible things, and so we win the debate.
But our second argument, even if you don't believe in that, is that one ought be skeptical.
What do I mean by this?
It is impossible to observe god.
Christians believe that god can only be known through faith alone, muslims similarly believes that god's nature is mysterious.
So we see that one cannot come to know god through science, you can't find god in a laboratory.
We think that you ought be skeptical of anything that you can't observe in the physical universe.
It is perfectly plausible that there is a giant teacup on the far side of jupiter, and that we are unable to observe this teacup because it's hidden from us by the planet, and our probes have just missed it because in their orbits of jupiter they happen to always be at the opposite side from the teacup.
But why would we believe in such a thing, that's silly.
So, in the same way, it's impossible to prove that god doesn't exist, but that's not a reason to believe that he does.
It's impossible to prove that the teacup doesn't exist, but it's impossible to prove that it does.
And there's no inherent reason to believe in either.
It may be the case that we have a cultural predilection towards believing in god and not in giant floating teacups, but that's not enough reason to say that something exists, we have a cultural predilection to believe that the sun revolves around the earth, but we can see that that's not true.
We should defer to what we can observe and avoid making statements based on what we cannot.
So because of the problem of evil and because of our own inherent skepticism, atheism is the only way.
Thank you.