We should not further exploit wind power.
By this, I don't mean that we should tear down existing wind turbines or that we should prevent them from being built in the future, rather I'm going to argue that wind power should not be our strategy moving forward in terms of alternative energy.
Two reasons why: the first is about lock-in.
Lock-in is a phenomenon that occurs when you basically invest so much in a technology that you're committed to it for the long term.
So if you spend hundreds of billions of dollars to build wind turbines across the US and the EU, all of the infrastructure in the country also has to be redesigned around these wind turbines.
So, for instance, you would have to lay cable to bring in wind energy from where the wind turbines were and to distribute it from those regions to other regions.
Why is this so problematic?
Recognize that wind turbines are unlikely to be the most effective energy solution long term.
So if you invest lots of money in wind turbines now and we get lock-in, it's more difficult to change over to other, more efficient or more effective technologies in the future.
So we don't think we should adopt wind turbines.
We think that we should adopt a diverse array of energy sources so that we're not so committed to one form of energy production that we lack the infrastructure to be able to commit to a better source of energy in the future.
A sort of balance energy diet of clean natural gas, wind turbines, nuclear power, hydropower, et cetera, all being used in tandem, would make it much easier to adopt new technologies in the future, because we would avoid being locked in to any one technology.
But what's more, we also would like to point out, with this lock-in, that it has huge potential cost down the line to maintaining this infrastructure.
If you build all of these wind turbines, then you're committed to maintaining this infrastructure for decades.
The other team is going to say, " aw, that's true for any form of energy. "
But it's more true for some than others.
Nuclear power plants are a bit like a self-cleaning oven: as long as you maintain them properly, they don't really need any maintenance.
Wind turbines, on the other hand, are going to have to be continually upgraded in order to meet our requirements for new energy, and it's not as simple as just attaching a bigger rotor.
You have to rebuild the entire power plant.
They're not scalar, which means that you're locked in to an inefficient form of energy that won't scale up well in the future.
So we think that this is a good reason not to focus on wind power as our future primary energy source.
Instead, we think something like solar, that scales more easily, or nuclear power, which we think is the ideal, would be a better direction for countries like the US or like EU member states to move towards.
Our second argument is about the comparative disadvantage that you take on relative to other nations.
What do we mean by this?
So imagine one country chooses to build lots of wind turbines, let's say, britain.
So, britain is now dependent on wind power, which is unreliable and inefficient compared to traditional natural gas energy and also compared to nuclear energy, as is used by france.
So what we see is that britain is now at a disadvantage in producing energy relative to its neighbors in the european union.
We tell you, therefore, that this is a good reason not to further exploit wind power, is that every wealthy country, like britain or like the states, has the option to buy into more efficient forms of energy, like liquid thorium reactors that are being used today in china.
While it may be true that wind power is green and clean and all of these other great things, at the point where you would have to produce energy more expensively than other countries, you make it cost more to do business in your country.
This dissuades investment and makes ordinary people's lives worse, because they spend more of their income on various products that are more expensive, because energy costs are higher.
And it's not as simple as a small bump in your electric bill every month.
Every product you consume will be more expensive if energy is more expensive.
This hurts your exports, and it also hurts your citizens.
So for all of these reasons, we should not further exploit wind power.
Thank you.