We should further exploit wind power.
So in this debate, we're talking about greatly expanding the amount of wind turbines and their use to produce electricity, for general use on the electrical grid.
So, we're going to present three arguments for you this evening about why we should further exploit wind power.
So first of all, we think that subsidizing wind power, which is one of the mechanisms that we would propose to increase its use, would be beneficial for domestic industry.
Recognize that a great deal of the energy that countries use is produced from imported fossil fuels.
Some countries, like the US or mexico, have been blessed with lots of fossil fuels that they can use for domestic energy production.
Other countries, like germany, rely heavily on imports for their energy needs.
So we think that countries, particularly those which rely heavily on imports for energy right now, should subsidize and exploit wind power more greatly in order to create a domestic energy industry, first of all, and to reduce their dependence on imports which likely drive up the cost of energy, secondly.
So we think that overall, the cost of electricity for everyone would be lower if this were the case if you look at the long term, even if it drove up taxes a little bit in the short term.
And we think that, ultimately, when you consider the benefits twenty, fifty years down the line, they're going to outweigh the short-term costs of the subsidies.
Our second argument is about the benefits of the research and development that will take place if we further exploit wind power.
Realize that if you make it feasible for companies to switch over from traditional to wind-based energy production, that they're going to do a lot of research on how to most effectively implement wind production in different environments, on the economic and environmental impacts that it has.
We think that you're likely to see a research boom.
I think that something comparable to consider would be that in the united states, in the nineteen fifties and sixties, there was a huge amount of subsidies were a huge amount of subsidies available for nuclear energy.
As a side effect of that, a tremendous amount of research was done about nuclear fission, possibilities for nuclear fusion, about safe waste disposal, about where and how we could use nuclear power.
And many inventions with military application, with applications for the space race, and other things that have benefited civilian life took place as a result of this.
We think it's very likely that if you took similar steps to promote wind power that you would also see bleed over of the benefits of this research and development to energy production, writ large, and also to other sectors of the economy.
So we think that this would be a good thing for research and development in your country, in general, as well as green research and development, more specifically.
The last argument for why we should further exploit wind power is to increase its use in more diverse environments.
Right now, when people think about wind power, they probably think about turbines put up, you know, on big, open pieces of land or on the coast, where you have these strong winds, there's nobody around, and then the energy has to be transmitted miles and miles to get to cities where people need it.
We think that it's more likely that you'll see the, first of all, increased acceptance of wind power as something that you can build in suburban and urban environments.
You'll reduce the " not in my backyard sentiment " if you increase its uses.
People become more accustomed to it.
But also that you'll see more development of new types of wind turbines that are safer and less disruptive to use in these types of environments, so things like quieter turbines, turbines that are safer to use around places where people live, etcetera.
And that, ultimately, this will make it easier for urban areas to have economic and environmental environmental footprints that are more sustainable in the long term.
So for these reasons, we should further exploit wind power.
Thank you.