We should not abolish congressional earmarks.
So we're going to present to you three arguments for why we think congressional earmarks are actually good, or at the worst where they shouldn't be banned.
Our first argument is that congressional earmarks are important for rural areas.
Recognize that, in areas that have relatively few people and a not very dense population, there isn't much incentive for state or federal government to invest in these regions, and that these are some of the poorest parts of the united states.
Places like rural south carolina for instance, are as poor as any inner city but where as there are lots and lots of programs devoted to helping people who live in new york and chicago with poverty, there are almost none for people living in rural areas.
This is especially true in southern states and midwestern states that have lower tax receipts than the northern states and western states that tend to have very large cities in them.
So congressional earmarks are a unique way for money to flow into these regions from government.
Even the smallest town in south carolina is still part of a congressional district, and they still have someone in congress who is looking out for their interests, who can be sure that they get some form of investment from government.
This is why oftentimes you'll see military bases and things like that located in the rural south.
This is because it's one way for these congress people to help these very poor areas.
So we think that if broadly speaking, one of the purposes of government is to alleviate poverty and increase opportunity for people living everywhere, not just people living in cities, then earmarks are one of the only ways that the american people or government fulfills that purpose of government.
We see that whereas there's relatively little direct intentional investment in rural areas, earmarks are a major way to help people who live in those regions, one of the only ways.
So inasmuch as those people are better off, and they're some of the most vulnerable people in american society, we think earmarks are a good thing and that abolishing them would be bad.
Our second argument is related, which is about empowering minorities.
Again, the government has relatively little incentive to directly invest in minority communities.
We see that inasmuch as these groups will never make up a majority of seats in congress because by their very nature they're minorities, that earmarks are one of the best way to be sure that minority communities receive investment.
If you think about it, because of the civil rights act, you have districts in places like north carolina, georgia, maryland, that are majority african americans, so these places routinely elect african american congressman.
So these congressmen or women can then go on to get kickbacks in the form of congressional earmarks for their district.
Now some people might say that that's corrupt, but I say that any policy that actually helps these communities that have been systematically ignored by government, that have faced decades of discrimination, is ultimately a good policy.
Again, we think that you need to help those who are worse off in society, prioritize their well being above everyone else's, because they're the people who are falling through the cracks right now, and earmarks are a unique way that we actually see that happen in the status quo.
Because everyone is entitled to a congress person and representation, we see that these earmarks can actually help communities that otherwise get ignored, and uniquely help african americans and other minority communities.
Our last argument is about the duty of legislators.
We think that, legislators have an obligation not to the american people as a whole necessarily, but to the people that they represent.
In other words, you receive a mandate as a democratically elected official, but we think that mandate is not to everyone in the united states who theoretically voted in an election, but to people who directly voted for you.
In other words, if you are a representative for boston say where I'm at, then you have an obligation to the people of boston, not to people in the entire united states as a whole.
We're not saying that you should ignore the wellbeing of others, but we are saying that you should try to help out your area, and if there is some shortcoming in federal funding or state funding for your region, we think that you should try to alleviate it, and that often time congressional earmarks are the most effective way to do it.
Earmarks are basically ad hoc spending on a particular area, and we think that they solve a lot of shortcomings in government spending writ large and therefore we should not abolish congressional earmarks.
Thank you.