Year round schooling will bring more good than harm.
So by year round schooling we mean a system where students go to school for several weeks, and then have a short break.
As opposed to a system where students go for months at a time and then have a very long break.
So perhaps on our side we're defending a world where students go to school for eight weeks and have two weeks off, and on the other side they're defending a system where students go to school for eight months and then have three months off.
So, our first argument is that students will learn better with year round schooling.
Students forget a great deal of material over the summer, which then has to be re-learned at the beginning of the next school year.
For instance, many students forget advanced mathematical concepts and have a more difficult time adjusting when they get back to school.
This means that valuable instruction time is spent not on new material or on the kind of helpful review that we do every day, but rather on re-teaching material that students have forgotten.
And since no two students are the same, it seems likely that some will remember what the others have forgotten, and ultimately he will not use class time as effectively.
We also tell you that there are some skills, like second language, that need to be practiced every day or they will be lost.
So for instance if you're teaching english as a second language at your school, those students will likely forget a great deal of vocabulary and lose speaking proficiency, if they aren't practicing every day during a several months of long break.
We also tell you that we can probably have students go to school for a longer period of time every year using this system.
Burnout is a real phenomenon.
It is true that students couldn't go to school every single day.
Children, especially younger children, simply don't have the capacity to focus day in and day out the way that adults do.
But we tell you that we could better fight burnout by having a short break every few weeks, rather than having one very long break.
For instance, american students tend to go to school for less than two hundred days a year because they have such a long break, in order to avoid burnout.
But finnish and japanese students often go to school well over two hundred and forty days a year, so they actually get more contact hours.
It's unsurprising then that countries like finland or south korea or japan, which have year round schooling, also have the best schools and the best students.
We tell you that these students are doing better than their peers in the US or britain, simply because they have more contact hours.
It's difficult for students to learn if they're not around their teacher for months on end, and if they're wasting all their time reviewing.
So we think that it's clear that students would learn better and learn more with year round schooling, and that alone is enough of a reason for us to implement it, because obviously the purpose of schools in the first place is to educate students.
But on top of that, our second argument is that we think this is better for parents, especially low income parents.
So right now, having your children home for a very long break in the summer means spending a lot of money on daycare.
If you have children who are under say, thirteen, and can't be home for a long period of time on their own, and if you don't have a lot of people in your community who can look after them, then you have to spend money on daycare, which is very expensive in many parts of the world for low income families.
We also tell you that in many places where schools provide breakfast or lunch to students, families are under more food distress during the summer break, because they have to provide more meals for their children.
This often means that children get worse nutrition during the summer.
I'm reminded of the community where I grew up where churches would send food home with kids during the summer, because otherwise they just wouldn't have anything to eat, it's quite sad.
And we tell you that you can reduce this by having children be in school more often so that we know that they're being fed properly, because they're eating two good meals a day at school.
So we think that this would be better and take some burden off of parents.
And lastly we think it would be easier to plan family travel if you didn't have everyone in the country trying to travel in december, but rather spread out throughout the year.
So we think that year round schooling will bring more good than harm, because it's better for children and better for their parents.
Thank you.