We should abolish congressional earmarks.
So, by abolish, we think that congress should be forbidden from including earmarks in legislation and by congressional earmarks, we mean language in laws requiring spending in a specific area beyond the required level of specificity for the law to take effect.
So, this might be an example of if the federal government were to build new highways, congress requiring that the highway go between town a and town b in a particular state, rather than just saying look, have the executive branch figure out where the highways ought to go.
So, two big arguments here: one is that this undermines the executive branch and the second is that this is fundamentally corrupt.
So, regarding the executive branch, the US constitution sets out very clear separation of powers.
Among these separations is that the legislative branch, namely, congress, gets to determine what the government is going to spend their money on by passing laws that allocate funding.
However, it's up to the executive branch to determine how to use this funding after it's been approved.
So, the executive branch has tens and tens of thousands of professional employees whose job is to determine how best to spend the federal government's money.
So, it might help to think of this as congress is the big picture.
They say we want highways and the federal government has the people with the expertise to determine how these highways should be built and where and by whom.
But when the legislative branch, when congress decides that they're going to include earmarks, they prevent the executive branch from doing this.
It doesn't matter if experts on highway construction in the executive branch say that this road needs to be built between town c and b if congress has already included requirements in the law that it go between a and b because that's convenient for some senator who's up for reelection this year.
It is inconvenient for the executive branch to have to balance all of these concerns which are often contradictory as different congress people require different earmarks and different bills and this leads to it being very difficult for them to do their jobs, to the point where they're spending more time dealing with earmarks than they are dealing with how to best actually carry out business.
This ultimately also leads to much less effective spending.
If congress approves the amount of money that it should take to build a road but they include requirements that make the road much more expensive to build because it has to go to lots of towns that shouldn't have been included on the highway in the first place, then ultimately, the taxpayers are going to have to borrow money rather than spend the money that they were actually allocated because congress is making it more expensive to get something done.
We also think that the cycle of greed creates mistrust and resentment between the executive branch and the legislative branch which makes it more difficult for the two groups to get their business done, as the legislators know that the executives want to take away their precious earmarks and the executive branch knows that their job would be much easier if they were just allowed to get things done.
So, our second argument is that this is fundamentally corrupt, which is probably pretty apparent because basically what this does is lets congress people buy reelection through what we call pork barrel spending.
Basically, congress people can say look, I will get a bridge built in our town that'll employee lots of people and buy supplies from local businesses, but only if you reelect me.
Otherwise, I won't get it.
So, in that way, the voters know that they can basically sell their vote to the congress person to get federal money.
So, what this means is leads to huge waste and redundancy.
A good example is that in the US, even though we have tons of battle tanks and the army doesn't ever expect to fight another war where we use these tanks, we keep building them because there are requirements set by congress in the form of earmarks that require tank factories in certain towns because the employment that these factories create is part of how certain senators get reelected.
The same thing with the US government, literally building bridges that don't go anywhere because of earmarks.
And certain representatives even hold congress hostage and refused to pass things like emergency relief bills after hurricanes unless earmarks are put in that help their district up in nebraska who wasn't affected by the hurricane at all.
So, what we can see is that this is tremendously corrupt and undermines the executive branch, so we should abolish congressional earmarks.
Thank you.