School vouchers are beneficial.
So basically, the way that school vouchers work is people pay the normal taxes that they would pay that goes towards a fund, but parents have the option to rather than send their child to a neighborhood school, send their child to another school by turning in a voucher.
So that might be a charter school which is a kind of semi private school that started by a private group but funded by the state and held to certain government standards, or even a private or parochial school we're perfectly fine with people using these vouchers at catholic schools for instance, on our side of the debate.
So, two arguments for why these are beneficial.
The first is about maximizing individual choice.
We think that broadly speaking, governments or an institution that limits people's freedom we see that, you know in a state of nature, parents would presumably have the freedom to send their children to any form of education that they wish, with no intervention from anyone else.
That would be a state of maximum freedom.
Now obviously, we want to guarantee certain minimum standards and we want to be sure that children are being educated well enough to become functional citizens, so the state has a clear interest in limiting people's freedom in some respect, in as much as it requires them to have their children get an education.
But we don't think that government needs to intervene at the level of deciding which school the children go to.
We think that if parents want their children for instance to get a catholic education, ultimately that's not the concern of the government.
These people who come out of catholic school are just as able to be functional citizens.
The people coming out of charter schools are just as able to be functional citizens anyone else.
They can get jobs, they have all the skills that we care about, so it's not really our concern whether they have a religion class twice a week at the end of the day, and I think that that's really the comparative.
The other team might try to tell you that some charter schools are like this unregulated libertarian nightmare, but if that's the case we think that the solution to this problem is to regulate schools better, not to get rid of vouchers.
We think that by maximizing choice you also empower parents.
We think individual parents probably know what's best for their child better than the government.
Recognize that lawmakers can't consider what's best for every individual child.
Imagine if you had a kid for instance was being bullied in their neighborhood school, who needed to go into a different school to get away from that but their parents didn't have enough money to afford it, we think that vouchers could be a really powerful tool there.
We also think that if you had children with special needs those might be better met at a different school farther away than in your neighborhood, and school vouchers again could be a way to maximize choice in that respect.
So this would ultimately maximize freedom, and be better for children with special needs are who are facing special circumstances.
Our second argument is about integration and access.
We think it's likely that charter schools will be much more diverse than neighborhood schools.
Most people probably live in neighborhoods where their neighbors are similar to themselves.
The neighborhood I grew up in, most people were white americans, for instance.
I think that's probably true everywhere in the world people live with people who are similar to themselves given the choice.
It's unfortunate but true.
With that in mind though, we think that you would get more integration of people from different racial, ethnic, religious, cultural, language backgrounds, through these schools, because if anyone could turn in these vouchers then you'd probably have something like a lottery system, and you would have students who were from an immigrant background or hispanic or black or white, going to the same schools.
And we think that this would ultimately lead to a society where more people were empathetic towards those who are different from themselves because they're socialized with them at a young age.
And in terms of access, I think that these vouchers increase the access to really good schools for low income students.
Unfortunately right now there's a tendency that wealthy areas have good schools and low income areas have bad schools.
But with these vouchers if you're a parent and you know that your town doesn't collect a lot of tax revenue, so your private sorry, public school isn't that good, you can send your child to a better school, ensure that they get a better education, and ultimately we think it's more likely that those children will go on to get back to their community and help to make this a rising tide that lifts all boats kind of things, by investing that education in helping others, or at least that they're more likely to do so than people from outside the community.
So for these reasons, school vouchers are beneficial.
Thank you.