We should not protect endangered species.
So this may sound a bit radical but we're going to tell you that ultimately government should not devote significant resources to protecting endangered species.
We're fine with private groups stepping in to fill the gap, but we don't think it's a good use of the state's resources.
Our first argument is that this is simply not a good use of the state's funds.
Remember that all of the government's money is fungible.
If it is spent on protecting endangered water lilies, then it's not being spent on helping people in inner cities who don't have access to good housing or education.
What does this mean?
We think the state has a moral obligation to allocate its money effectively to help people.
After all, a government derives its legitimacy from its citizens, and its citizens are giving up certain rights and privileges to live within that state.
At that point we think it's important the government allocates its money in the way that will best help its citizens.
Now water lilies may be aesthetically pleasing to those citizens or culturally relevant to some groups and we're fine with those groups trying to protect them, but they don't benefit most people.
If there's an endangered plant in boston it doesn't help the people in chicago.
We think that the state needs to allocate its money in order to help the largest amount of people and that will almost always mean focusing on things like reducing poverty or protecting the ill or the elderly rather than protecting endangered plants and animals.
We just don't think that's a good use of money when the trade off is with people's lives.
Our second argument is that no one individual is more deserving of protection than any other individual.
So consider a common fox and an endangered red fox, let's say.
Both of them have similar mental faculties.
Both of them do similar things they may live in slightly different places but ultimately, the common fox and the red fox, both are foxes.
So we think that if you believe will's analysis, that animals are deserving of certain rights and privileges because they're able to experience pain, then there is no justification for focusing on endangered species to the expense of every other group.
Why is an individual red fox more deserving of government protection than an individual common fox?
Where I live we have a program that goes around and shoots coyotes because they're a nuisance.
But we have programs that protect wolves on the other hand which are also a nuisance but happen to be endangered.
These are very similar animals with similar capacity for pain and pleasure.
We think that it's unjust to prioritize some of their lives over others just because of their species.
In other words, we think that this is basically discrimination against certain animals or in favor of others based on an immutable characteristic, namely the species which they happen to be born into.
If you believe that animals are deserving of certain rights and protections then these should be applied equally across the board and not more to endangered species and in that case we should not protect endangered species especially.
Our third and final argument though is that we don't think that animals are deserving of rights.
Why?
Where do rights come from?
Some people would probably say that rights come from god, other people might say that they come from nature, but we think that the most useful way to think about rights is something that come from convention.
After all, back before people lived in organizes societies people didn't have many rights at all.
You might be killed by your father for disrespecting him and no one would bat an eyelash.
But today we live in a society where your father can't kill you or take your property because the state has decided and society has decided that that's not acceptable.
But our society hasn't applied these rights to animals and we think that therefore they ought not be granted them by certain elites.
If people wanted to get together and vote on a constitutional amendment in america or a law in britain that guaranteed that animals would bear receive certain rights then that would be acceptable.
But in as much as they haven't this tends to just be elites projecting their wishes onto everyone else even though no such right exists by convention.
So for all of these reasons we should not protect endangered species.
Thank you.