We should protect endangered species.
So in this debate, what we're saying is that countries around the world should create laws and take drastic action to prevent species from going extinct.
We see that conservation laws have been in place for about a hundred years in the US and some parts of europe and that they've been very effective at slowing the rate at which species go extinct.
But we think that even further action could be taken, by things like creating more national forest and extending this protection to more, different animals.
So, three arguments for you.
The first is that we tell you that current people ought not damage the environment in which future people will live.
We tell you that people who are alive today are not the sole owners of the earth, that future people have equal moral consideration with people who have been born right now.
What this means is that we have a moral obligation to leave the environment as we found it, for posterity.
We think that, for instance, when species go extinct because we failed to take action to preserve them that ultimately we, ultimately, we impoverish the experience that future people have in terms of being able to engage with the environment.
If you think about something like the great panda, clearly this has value to us culturally and aesthetically, and we think that future people have an equal claim to be able to enjoy that.
And in terms of other species which may have pragmatic benefits, such as genes that might be used to cure a rare disease, or species that might have other value for society that hasn't been discovered yet, we think that future people have an equal right to observe and discover these opportunities and to take advantage of them for the benefits that they may have for society in the future.
Our second argument is that there is an environmental value to conservation.
We tell you that it's often difficult to predict the effect that one species' extinction will have upon other species.
A type of grass, for instance, that grows in meadows, that people might not even notice on their way to work, that might just seem like it's no more valuable than any other grass, might provide a unique habitat for a species of butterflies, say.
We tell you that, ultimately, every species is connected and dependent on every other species.
But moreover, we tell you that as more and more species go extinct, the rate of extinction will increase.
Why is this true?
It's probably the case that an ecosystem can afford to lose a few species.
If you imagine an ecosystem is a web, where every species is touching, if you pluck out a few strings the entire web probably won't come unraveled.
But as you pluck out more and more strings, more and more of the remaining strings will come unraveled.
We tell you that a species have a harder and harder time adapting to the loss of other species.
Ultimately, you run the risk of entire ecosystems collapsing, which means that even very useful species or species that we care a lot about, could be put at risk by the extinction of species that right now we don't place a lot of value on.
Our last argument is that different species have an aesthetic value in and of themselves.
In other words, that we should prevent extinction because it is the loss of something that is irreplaceable and valuable in its own right.
We tell you that, for instance, while it might be true that buffalo don't do a lot for us day to day, that ultimately there is an aesthetic value to an environment that contains the buffalo and that particularly for some cultures, like certain native american tribes, this may be very significant to their religious or other cultural practices.
We think that species deserve to be conserved for this aesthetic value in and of themselves, and also for the aesthetic value that they impart to different communities or religious practices.
At the end of the day, we think that because it is impossible to replace a species once it is gone extinct, that it is uniquely important to ensure that as few species as possible are because we can't accurately measure their value right now and can't predict what it might be in the future.
So because of the rights of future people, because of the environmental value, and because of the aesthetic value of the species, we should protect endangered species.
Thank you.