We should protect the antarctic continent.
So by this we mean that antarctica should be made an international nature reserve where nobody is allowed to drill for oil or minerals, or exploit the wildlife, or whatever other resources may exist on the continent.
And on top of that, we think that under the scope of protecting it, it should be considered as international property in the same way that the open ocean is in the status quo.
So with that in mind, we have three arguments for you.
The first is about antarctica as the last major wilderness.
So this is the last big territory that hasn't been exploited for resources yet because technology hasn't made it possible to do so up until the current day.
Recognize that the value of antarctica as a wilderness is irreplaceable.
After you have exploited virgin land, it can never go back to its original state.
Any damage that you do is likely to be permanent especially with things like mineral extraction that can fundamentally change the shape and lay-out of the landscape.
We think that there are probably unknown benefits and bounties to this continent that we can't exploit right now.
We think that if you destroy the local biodiversity and things like that, they will never be able to be replaced because once those things are gone, there simply gone and we can't recover them and that since we don't know what their benefits might be, we should leave them for posterity.
We think it's important that future people have every bit as much of a claim to use antarctica as current people and that the most responsible way to use it, therefore, is to act as stewards rather than as miners or exploiters.
We all should we also think that it's important to avoid past mistakes.
At other times in history when people have discovered new continents or had technology open up previously inhospitable regions, the first thing that they've done is stolen everything they could and taken it back to the places where we already live.
We think that this has drastically damaged the ecosystem in places like alaska or the american west and that we should learn from those mistakes and not do the same thing in antarctica.
We should plan carefully how will interact with it and the best way to ensure that this happens is to treat it as a nature reserve in the meantime.
Our second point is about reducing conflict.
So recognize that right now it's really unclear who antarctica belongs to and what part of antarctica belongs to what countries.
There is a group of very complex and conflicting international claims to different parts of the continent.
Argentina, chile, britain, norway, the US, russia, all claim different parts of antarctica for their own and many times these conflicts or claims overlap.
We think that as oil and other minerals are discovered in antarctica, there's likely to be a lot of conflict.
Up to the early twenty-first century there wasn't conflict over antarctica because it was basically worthless ice and it was only claimed because it was convenient to do so.
But if there's suddenly hundreds of billions of dollars worth of oil, hypothetically, discovered then we think countries are going to go to war, potentially, over that resource especially as mineral resources become more scarce in more easily accessible locations.
Without limitations and treaties and plans about how to deal with antarctica, rudimentary steps have been taken in this direction but enough we think.
Without these steps, we think that ultimately you are more likely to have conflict in the future and antarctica will simply go to the strongest rather than be allocated fairly.
So I think that on our side, what we promote is a world in which countries should be able to share equally in the bounty of antarctica, rather than have strongest countries take everything for themselves our last claim is about urgency.
We think that antarctica is becoming more and more accessible due to global climate change and rising temperatures and due to increases in technology.
So recognize that right now most of the continent is hidden under an ice cap but it seems that in the next couple hundred years the ice cap is going to melt and all of that land will suddenly be exposed to the surface for the first time in thousands of years.
We think that it will be very easy for countries at that time to exploit resources that right now are very inaccessible.
We also think there will be great demand for easy to use resources at that time since places like the US and russia by that time we'll have had many of their resources exhausted.
We think, therefore, that it is urgent to deal with the problem of antarctica right now before it is possible to access the resources.
Once people are already mining or drilling on the continent, we don't think it's going to be easy to make them stop and we don't think it would be just to overturn existing property claims.
We need to act before those claims are actually state.
If the ice caps are going to melt, we need to have plans to deal with this in place and on our side we think that the best way to do that is to promote international cooperation and to prevent exploitation of these resources until some sort of plan is in place.
So for these reasons we think it's clear that we should protect the antarctic continent.
Thank you.