We should not criminalize blasphemy.
So in this debate we're going to explain why blasphemy first of all is not a serious concern and second of all why even if it is it shouldn't be illegal.
So three arguments.
The first is that this is an arbitrary line to draw for when we limit speech.
I want to draw a clear distinction between blasphemy and the hate speech laws which exist in countries like canada or britain.
Hate speech laws generally exist to protect a traditionally disenfranchised minority group or a group that faces disproportionate harms from certain speech.
We're okay with those limitations.
We're okay with banning islamophobic speech if that speech takes a form that draws into account traditional harmful narratives or that puts the muslim community of a country at risk.
But what we're not okay with is banning speech that is contrary to the doctrines of a religion.
Namely blasphemy.
We think that people should be able to challenge islamic teachings in the public sphere even to ridicule islamic doctrine or christian or jewish or hindu or whatever doctrine as long as they do it in such a way that doesn't incite violence or cause legitimate fear in the community that practices that religion.
We think this is a clear and easy distinction to draw and one that countries like britain and canada are already drawing today in their hate speech laws.
So this is just an arbitrary extension of free speech limitations.
For instance, why is religious ideology more deserving of protection than political ideology?
For many socialists their political ideology is an essential part of their core being.
Why should we not protect them from hearing views that they don't like if we're going to go out and protect all these other people?
We think that the other team needs to explain to you why religion is a characteristic that is deserving of the same protection as race or sex when it's actually something that's a personal choice, more like political ideology.
And I'd like to point out on top of that that there's a slippery slope here, of a state banning speech that is popular to ban.
We think that in many cases these limitations on blasphemy wouldn't be used to protect minorities.
It would be majority religious groups limiting anyone from criticizing them.
So maybe you would see catholics in poland, say, use this to ban any speech that goes in the face of what the majority wants to hear.
So we think that ultimately this has a chilling effect on free speech generally, and therefore that it's a bad thing.
Our second argument is that free speech is a fundamental good because it promotes a stronger marketplace of ideas.
We think that when ideas have to compete freely, if you think about the analogy of a marketplace where businesses compete freely, when ideas have to compete freely than the best ideas ultimately win out.
We think this is why over time incorrect ideas about science, for instance, have fallen out of favor because the ideas conflicted and eventually the better one wins out.
We've seen over time that old ideas like racism and slavery and sexism have fallen gradually out of favor because they're bad ideas and better ideas have defeated them in this open market.
We think the same thing should happen with religions.
If religions have dogmas that are nonsense or that are harmful to the community, we would prefer a world in which those dogmas or doctrines are cast aside and better ones are adopted in their place.
And we think that can't happen if you criminalize any speech that criticizes some aspect of a religion.
And our third argument is that we think this is a violation of the separation of church and state.
Now we recognize not every country has these separations but those that do, places like france or the united states, we think that it's unreasonable for the state to be the arbiter of what is and is not acceptable religious speech.
It's simply not the purview of american or french judges to decide what is and is not blasphemy.
And what that means is that priests and imams and rabbis are going to have a lot of say over this process and we think that's a clear violation of the separation of church and state.
So because it's arbitrary, because it shuts down the marketplace of ideas, and because it's a violation of church and state separation we should not criminalize blasphemy.
Thank you.