We should exploit antarctica.
So, we're going to present two arguments: one is about morality and the other is about international relations.
So, regarding morality, antarctica, we have every reason to believe, is full of things like oil, natural gas and minerals, all of which are capable of tremendously improving the quality of life of millions of people around the world, if not billions.
Recognize that if you increase the supply of things like gas and oil that the cost of these things will fall and they will be more accessible to those most in need around the globe.
People right now are dying for want of resources, so we cannot turn our nose up at them simply because the source may be slightly distasteful to despoil.
We tell you that current people who are dying right now because they lack energy have greater claims to these resources than any future people who have not yet been born and do not yet have rights and we tell you that the preservation of human lives will always be more valuable than the preservation of aesthetic beauty in nature.
So, we don't think those arguments from the last speech really hold up.
But we'd also like to point out that if you don't exploit antarctica, you place more strain on other ecosystems, which are also unique and also precious and also deserve protection, because we will have to focus on those ecosystems alone in order to meet our energy needs around the globe.
At that point, we tell you that you are for a happy medium, exploiting antarctica along with exploiting other resources in different environments around the world.
So, from this we can see that we must exploit antarctica, both for moral reasons and to protect the aesthetic beauty of other parts of the globe as well.
But an important point that I think our opponent has missed is about the international effects of exploitation of the antarctic continent.
We tell you, first of all, that some nations need antarctica's resources much more than others.
A country like norway is relatively rich in oil and a country like britain, much less so.
So, to norway, there is much less need to exploit antarctica than there would be for the british, and both countries, of course, have claims on the continent.
This strains countries with fewer resources unfairly and unfairly benefits countries that have lots of resources right now.
Recognize that the neutral thing to do is not to do nothing.
That's still taking an active stance in favor of countries that are rich in the status quo and at the expense of countries that are more resource-poor in the status quo.
At that point, we think you ought defer to allowing countries to access resources that they have a claim to because otherwise, you will face resentment and conflict in the international community and we think that it is far better to drill for oil among the penguins, than to risk conflict in europe or elsewhere around the globe.
But we also think that it's entirely possible to exploit antarctica fairly.
We see that in the past, attempts to access things like space and the deep sea have brought nations together.
The technological difficulty, the sense of adventure, the commonality of the people who were explorers in these regions brings people from different countries together, such that nations are able to work together on a scope elsewhere unseen.
Space perhaps provides the best example of this where even the soviets and the americans, who were at each other's throats on earth, were able to work together to build spaceships together.
We think that antarctica similarly offers an opportunity to bring people together.
Taming antarctica and bringing its resources into the world will be no small feat.
It'll be on a scale comparable to space exploration.
So, we think that nations will have to work together and we would prefer a world where they do so to one in which nations remain more divided from one another, more willing to have conflict.
So, with that said, I think it's clear that we should exploit antarctica, but I want to refute something we heard from the last speaker.
He spoke about ice caps and told me told us that they're going to melt if we exploit antarctica.
So, first of all, I'd like to point out that we already exploited greenland which has huge ice caps, but also, it's not like we're going in there with flame throwers and melting the ice.
The problem is that warmer seas and warmer air from global warming will melt the ice, but that's going to happen either way because we're not going to stop burning oil on either side of the house.
So, we think that there's no unique harm here and that we might as well exploit the resources since the ice cap will eventually melt anyway.
For these reasons, we should exploit antarctica.
Thank you.