Tower blocks are advantageous.
So, what we mean by this in this debate is that high-rise housing, such as residential buildings of five or six or more stories, is ultimately advantageous over more traditional smaller housing buildings.
So, three main arguments for you today.
The first is about cheaper housing.
A major problem facing many cities today, such as new york or london, is that housing has grown so expensive that even middle-class people are no longer able to afford to live in the city.
We tell you that the only way to solve this is to build high-rise housing.
Why is this true?
You can't increase the amount of land in a city.
The only thing that you can do is house more people in the same area.
Since you can't build out, you must build up.
Ultimately, the only way to ensure that people can continue to live near the area where they work, can continue to remain in the communities where they grew up, is to facilitate the creation of cheaper housing, and the best way to do that is with these tower blocks.
So we see that there's a tremendous advantage here over traditional housing in terms of the cost of individual apartment units.
Our second argument is about sustainability.
We think that people living more densely, ultimately, is going to be more environmentally sustainable.
Why is this true?
We tell you that people, when they choose to live in a more urban sprawl or suburban-type environment, ultimately, damage much more of that environment.
Imagine that in new york city, the maximum amount of environmental damage has already been done.
There's already very little green space and things like that.
It would be preferable to put more people into that environment rather than to have them sprawl further and further into new york state, where you still have large forests and fields in places where the environment is relatively less damaged by human occupation.
We think that, if anything, you would want to facilitate people moving back into cities, who have left in the in the past, which kind of gets back to what I was talking about in terms of cheaper housing.
But on top of that, we also tell you that it's easier to provide services, like water and electricity, more cheaply to these tower blocks, because everyone is located all in one place.
We think that in the future, sustainability needs to be one of the hallmarks of urban development, that we can no longer continue to build low-rise housing just because people like it a little bit better, when it means that in the future the environment will be greatly harmed, and future people won't be able to enjoy high or low-rise housing, because places like new york will be under water.
Our final argument is about urban renewal and why we think it is improved by the use of these tower blocks.
First of all, we want to talk about why tower blocks have been constructed historically.
In addition to lower prices, we also see that they've been built in areas that had fallen on hard times in the past.
In eastern europe, tower blocks are common in cities that were destroyed in the second world war.
They were built as a quick way to revitalize cities where lots of people had lost their homes.
This is still the case in places like serbia today, and we think that obviously it would be better to rebuild cities more quickly than less quickly.
But even in places that haven't seen lots of conflict, we tell you that if you want to bring in lots of people to a city in order to revitalize communities that have fallen on hard times, in order to create more opportunities for businesses and investment, that the best way to do that is to create a large housing stock for these people to live in.
Ultimately, if there's nowhere for people to go, they won't come.
If you build it, we tell you that, ultimately, they will come.
So we see that since most cities around the world probably have districts that have fallen on hard times, that are not being used as effectively as they could, that ultimately tower blocks should be advantageous for those reasons.
So I'll conclude by saying that while it's true that tower blocks have some disadvantages in terms of aesthetics or privacy, that ultimately, the benefits in terms of cost, in terms of environmental sustainability, and in terms of the ability to renew areas that have fallen on hard times, outweigh these drawbacks.
Thank you.