Holocaust denial should not be illegal.
On our side we would argue that people should be free to say and do stupid and offensive things if they want to as long as they don't advocate to harm anyone else.
So with that in mind, I think it's clear that we need to legalize holocaust denial in countries like germany where it's currently illegal.
So our first argument is that sunlight is the best disinfectant.
Ultimately the way to deal with the problematic idea is not to ban it, rather it's to show people that that idea is bad or wrong.
If you ban holocaust denial then it looks to people like you're afraid of that idea.
It doesn't seem like germany is strong because they've made holocaust denial illegal.
Instead, young idiots think that the government is trying to cover something up by bending any speech.
There's a famous martin luther king junior quote along the lines of " darkness cannot drive out darkness only light can do that ".
I think that in the same way, stupidity cannot drive out stupidity only intelligent debate can.
Ultimately by having the government prevent debate on the topic by criminalizing discussion of it, there's no way that you can actually convince people that they're wrong and change their minds.
The other team in this debate has to prove to you that they get a world with fewer holocaust deniers and I think that's empirically false because countries that have laws against holocaust denial, like germany right now, have a very high rate of holocaust deniers where as countries like the united states, where holocaust denial is legal, also have many holocaust deniers.
At the very worst we can see that these laws don't do anything but I think that they probably lead to more people believing in it than otherwise would just because there's no debate.
Similarly, I'd like to move on to our next point which is that ultimately banning holocaust denial is an arbitrary limitation on free speech.
Sam is correct that the holocaust is terrible and no one should deny that it happens, but I'm not sure that the holocaust is categorically different than every other bad event in human history.
The united states systematically exterminated hundreds of thousands of native americans.
Why should this be legal to discuss and deny when the holocaust is not?
In fact many US government officials denied that the US government ever tried to exterminate the native americans.
It happened.
Historians will tell you that it happened.
If you go out west you can visit places where it happened and ultimately the discussion a lot around this has forced white america to come to terms, at least in some extent, with the fact that they're responsible for the removal of the native americans.
I think that similarly discussion of the holocaust no matter where it comes from makes people more aware of the risks of nationalism and of genocide and of anti-semitism than what you get otherwise.
But moreover, you just see more and more bans if you try to not be arbitrary with this.
Pretty soon you would have to ban denial of the holodomor which is much more complicated historiographically and denial of every single other mass atrocity that's ever happened in history otherwise you're arbitrarily preferencing the holocaust over other instances of extermination.
The holocaust is a genocide.
We think that either you have to ban all genocide denial, which probably has serious implications for your foreign policy and also for what can be discussed and debated in your society, or you need to leave holocaust denial legal.
The breakdown of this debate is very clear.
On the opposition world you ban something that right now is a pretty marginal issue and make it a much larger public issue so that many more people become holocaust deniers.
On our world you let people talk about this, you let people censure and mock those who deny the holocaust and ultimately it's not a serious issue.
For all these reasons, holocaust denial should be legal.
Thank you.