We should criminalize blasphemy.
So, by blasphemy, we mean things like defamation of particular religion or acts that are really considered heinous by that religion, such as creating pictures of the prophet muhammad.
And by criminalize, we think that someone who does these things should face charges by a public prosecutor and then possibly, you know, large fines.
We're not looking at jail time or anything like that.
So, three arguments.
The first is that we need to protect minority faiths.
We think that, by and large, the blasphemy that takes place today is not going to be, you know, the medieval catholic church hunting down heretics and forcing them to swear themselves back to the true faith.
We think that what this really looks like is people deliberately doing things that are heinous or very offensive to a minority community in order to make them feel unsafe and unwelcome.
For instance, when people in the US burn qurans, we don't think that this is out of any desire other than to intimidate muslims and make them feel unsafe.
When cartoonist in france draw pictures of the prophet mohammed having gay sex, we don't think that they're doing this out of any legitimate artistic desire other than to alienate and offend people in this minority community.
We think that at the end of the day, the government needs to step in to protect communities which are at risk of, basically, disproportionate harms.
In other words, when you are a minority in a country, the risk of public opinion turning against you, the risk of speech that says that your beliefs are invalid, ultimately those harms are much greater than for the same thing to happen against a majority group.
We think that, in general, the laws right now do a lot to protect majority groups, such as banning things that are offensive to their sensibilities, and we need to step up to do more to protect minority religions in the same vein.
Our second argument is about public decency.
Almost no country in the world has absolute freedom of speech.
In many countries around the world, a certain language, whether that be offensive or threatening language, is seen as inappropriate for the public sphere.
You see, for instance, that certain speech is not allowed on television or the radio.
In the US you can't use profanity before eight o'clock on television, for instance.
So what we tell you is that, ultimately, you need to apply these principles equally.
As I was alluding to earlier, the things that we ban right now as publicly indecent are informed by religious beliefs.
Christians think that it is in poor taste to show a nipple on television, so it's against the law to show a nipple on television, in the US, at any rate.
Why should we give legal protections to what christians think is right or wrong and not to what muslims think are right or wrong?
We think that ultimately the justice system derives its legitimacy from applying equally to everyone regardless of their creed or faith and that in order for that to be true, we need to take into account different people's desires when we set up public indecency laws.
Our last argument is that we don't think that blasphemy can be considered the type of speech that we want to protect.
If you look at free speech laws in most countries, oftentimes people have a constitutional freedom of speech, but this isn't absolute.
For instance, you can't go and yell, " fire ", in a crowded movie theater.
In a certain sense, publishing lots of very offensive materials to muslims in paris is not that different from yelling " fire " in a crowded movie theater, because you put people's backs up against the wall in the algerian and other muslim communities.
You put young people at risk of radicalism and ultimately, pose a threat to the public good, because you are making it impossible for people to live normal lives, because you systematically alienate them through this blasphemous speech.
So we don't think that this can be considered under the types of protected speech that people normally have in democracies.
So for these reasons, we should criminalize blasphemy.
Thank you.