We should not protect antarctica.
By this I mean to say that we should exploit the resources of antarctica in the same way that we exploit the resources of every other continent.
We think that countries should come up with some way to take the resources of antarctica and allow them to be extracted for the greater good of the world's people.
Our first argument is that antarctica is tremendously bountiful and that this could ultimately improve the lives of billions of people.
Antarctica has huge mineral resources as well as food resources, which ultimately could go very far to alleviating poverty throughout the world.
Antarctica has huge amounts of fossil fuels available as well as many minerals that are needed for things like technology and development.
Right now, these resources are doing no one any good lying in the ground.
The only way that they can be used productively is if we stop treating antarctica as this sort of virginal nature, and instead treat it as part of the common dominion of nature that we have.
In the same way that we harvest resources from the open ocean because if we were not to do so, many people would suffer privation or want, we should exploit the resources of antarctica.
I mentioned food resources as well.
There are huge amounts of plankton and krill in the antarctic ocean which are not generally harvested right now, but which could be used to alleviate hunger throughout the world.
We see that in the future, people will have to look to alternative food sources as the population grows and as the climate warms, and harvesting the antarctic ocean is one major way that we could alleviate concerns about food as the population continues to grow.
And I think that it's a moral imperative that we use the resources in antarctica, not just a convenience.
Because if we don't use them, then we're letting human beings, who have equal moral worth to you or I, go hungry or suffer, because we would prefer not to disturb some sort of wasteland far to the south.
Ultimately, these are real people's lives that would be affected.
So, it's important that we step in and use these resources to maximize the good, which means distributing the food, which means burning the energy in such a way that we can help the most people possible.
And our second argument, which is a little bit broader, is that the status quo for antarctica is unsustainable for two reasons: imperialism and climate change.
When antarctica was first discovered and divided up in the early twentieth century, a handful of european imperial powers were able to project their will on to the continent.
Today argentina and chile also have claims on antarctica, but ultimately the lines were drawn by a handful of imperial countries claiming to represent the entire world.
But ultimately, this was extremely unfair to countries like china or india which, at that time, were not able to project their own will on to antarctica, because in india's case, they didn't have an independent foreign policy, and in china's case, they were dominated by foreign powers.
So we think that in the future, we need a new way to deal with antarctica that allows people who live in countries that were subjugated when antarctica was first discovered, I should say, to have some part in deciding how antarctica ought be used, because those people have an equal claim to it.
And the second reason is that climate change is going to make antarctica more and more appealing.
In nineteen hundred, when it was much colder than it is today, antarctica was effectively a worthless wasteland.
So it made sense to kind of wall it off and call it a nature preserve because, honestly speaking, what else could they do with it with world war one era technology?
But today, because technology is improved and because antarctica is growing warmer, the land and the resources are becoming more and more accessible and more and more valuable.
So rather than try to maintain the status quo, we need to adapt and take advantage of this in a responsible fashion.
For all these reasons, we should not protect antarctica as a nature preserve.
Thank you.