Holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
So in this debate we are saying that the governments of countries around the world should have criminal charges brought against people who spread information about holocaust denial in the public.
So we think that for instance, people who run holocaust denial websites should face jail time or very steep fines to the tune of tens of thousands of euros and we think that the government's we're talking about would be highly developed countries that have other regulations on things like hate speech.
So this might look like western european countries, the US, canada etcetera.
Too big arguments for you.
The first is that holocaust denial and nazi apologism are a tactic used by fascists to try to make their movement seem more legitimate again.
The reason why fascism went from being one of the, you know, main ideologies around the world in the nineteen thirties to being essentially wiped out after the second world war, is because people had to come to terms with the horrible crimes committed by fascist regimes and this made it completely unpalatable for anyone to be able to push that kind of rhetoric in public.
So we see that even though the fascists themselves didn't go away, you could look at someone like le pen in france in the nineteen seventies and eighties.
They were completely outside of the mainstream.
No one was willing to vote for them or support them except for a tiny minority of whack jobs because people were aware of the horrible crimes committed by fascist regimes in the mid twentieth century.
What happens when holocaust denial becomes acceptable and something that takes place in the public sphere is that more and more people will be taken in by neo nazi lies and be more willing to support these regimes in the future.
The risk that you run when you have a lot of holocaust denial in your country is ending up like hungary where fascists have been able to re-enter parliament and even form coalition governments now.
So you see that the same threats the fascists posed in the early twentieth century are returning in some countries in part because of holocaust denial.
What this looks like is ultimately governments that are going to implement anti-semetic, anti-gay, anti-immigrant policies and even possibly a return to the type of political violence that characterized fascist regimes in the past.
We think that it's completely unacceptable for governments to allow their countries to potentially go down that road.
That as a precautionary measure, you need to prohibit these fascist lies from spreading within your country because we think it's likely that people with limited access to education will have difficulty discerning what is true and what is false when it comes to the holocaust.
Remember that of all events in history few were more shocking than the holocaust.
It's difficult for people to conceive that this is really possible and that's why it's so important that we prevent this relatively easy to accept lie from being perpetuated.
It's critical that particularly as the generation who lived through the holocaust are, you know, growing old and passing away, that we keep the memory of what happened alive to prevent it from ever occurring again.
Our second argument is that we think that holocaust denial is a tool to normalize anti-semitism and other similarly harmful sentiments because the implication of holocaust denial necessarily is that jews are making up the holocaust in order to gain more power and sympathy around the world.
Many holocaust deniers say that the holocaust is a fiction created by jews in order to get the US to support the creation of the state of israel.
So in other words they want to use the idea that the holocaust is a lie to delegitimize the status of jews in the US and in other countries to make them seem like they are lying for personal benefit like they're untrustworthy, essentially to perpetuate the same anti-semitic stereotypes that were used by the nazis in the twentieth century to gain support for state sanctioned anti-semitism.
So for these reasons holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
Thank you.