Operation cast lead was justified.
So, for those of you who aren't familiar.
Operation cast lead was an israeli defense forces ground invasion of gaza in january two thousand nine.
And for a little bit of background, this began after a ceasefire expired between hamas and israel, which led to rocket attacks from gaza onto southern israel.
Israel responded at first without a land invasion, and then with ground troops going into the gaza strip.
This went on for a period of a little less than a month, before both sides declared unilateral cease fires, and the israeli ground forces withdrew.
So, with those basic facts established, which I hope we can all agree with, let's talk about two reasons why this was justified.
But before we get into that, I want to talk a little bit about what we mean by justified.
We think that necessarily, the just thing need not always be the most humane thing, it need not always be the most pragmatic thing.
We think that justice involves restitution for victims and and enforcement of commonly accepted norms on people who are violating those norms.
And that this is why we have criminal justice systems which punish people, sometimes in inhumane ways, because we see that these norms need to be enforced and that people need to be punished for their wrongdoing.
So with that in mind, our first argument is that it is always just to react to provocation.
If somebody was throwing rocks at you as an individual, we think that it would be completely reasonable for you to go over and make them stop throwing rocks at you, even if that meant hitting them or knocking them down.
In the same way, unfortunately, gaza was behaving towards israel.
We see that hamas was using gaza as a base to shoot rockets into israel.
At that time the missile defense system was not as developed as it is now, and even in an era today when we have the missile defense system, we see that there is still a tremendous risk to civilians from these rocket attacks.
So in effect, hamas put israel into an untenable position.
We think it is always just for a state to react to an attack upon its sovereign soil.
Now the other team might say that israel has behaved unfairly in the past towards the palestinians, they might criticize the fact that israel is occupying west bank and in the past have occupied gaza, but we would tell you that at this given time, the area being attacked was legally controlled territory that no one contests in southern israel.
So certainly, israel has sovereign control over this soil, and is justified in protecting it, and to reacting to an attack against it.
Our second argument is about the duty of a state to its citizens.
So we think that the obligations of israel, like any other state, are primarily to its own citizens, rather than to any external actor.
Why is this true?
A state fundamentally exists because of a convention between all of the citizens of a country, that they will follow certain laws and implement a certain constitution, or in israel's case a basic law, in order to create a functional society that will protect their rights and privileges and freedoms, at the expence of giving up some of those rights, privileges and freedoms.
So the citizens are the people who have participated in this convention.
And I'd like to point out that in israel, this consists of many jews and arabs of different faiths, so we see that this is a multicultural society that includes many different types of people.
It's not as though israel were a state that systematically excluded one class of people from citizenship.
So with that in mind, we think that there is a duty of the state to protect its citizens from violence.
After all, citizens give up their own ability to protect themselves through violence to the state, in order to establish a monopoly of violence on behalf of the state, which will ultimately lead to greater safety for the citizens, or so they believe.
If the state fails to protect citizens from violence, then it is failing to meet the obligations that it takes on when it abrogates some of the freedoms of citizens.
For instance, individual citizens of israel were not free to go into gaza to stop these rocket attacks, even if they threatened their lives or property or well being, so we think that the state needed to act on their behalf.
And when a state fulfills its duties, we think that that can only be just, because there is an obligation that would not be met otherwise.
For these two reasons, we think that operation cast lead was justified.
Thank you.