The vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.
So we're going to explain to you why catholic priests ought not be allowed to marry.
Our first argument for you today is about the theological groundings for the vow of celibacy and why these prevent us from getting rid of this obligation for priests.
The other speaker told you incorrectly that there is no theological grounding for the vow of celibacy.
Actually, this goes back to the church fathers.
We see that all the way back to the fifth sixth century CE, the foremost experts on the church have believed that priests ought not be allowed to marry.
Obviously this is a round about marriage, because in catholicism's you're committing the sin of adultery if you have sex outside of the context of your marriage.
So with that in mind, we see there's a tradition going back about fifteen hundred years of not allowing priests to marry.
The other side might say that there is no biblical grounding for this.
I am far from a biblical expert but the fact that the church fathers felt that there was probably indicates that there's at least some reason to believe this.
But what I do know is that at vatican two, which was a council held in the vatican in the mid-twentieth century to discuss how modern things effect the church, it was reaffirmed that one cannot be a priest and be married.
Catholics believe that, basically, it is a sacrament to be a priest or to be married.
So a sacrament is like a special relationship between a person and god, and they believe that you can't have these two sacraments at the same time.
They're incompatible with one another.
So with that in mind, in the catholic belief system you cannot exist in a state of being married and being a priest.
So this just doesn't make any sense theologically and for that reason, obviously the church should continue the vow of celibacy.
Our second argument is about the legitimacy of the church in the eyes of its flock.
So, let's pretend you could talk your way out of this theological trap that you're left in.
What what ordinary people, who might not be that educated about theology, think about this?
Right now, I think it's safe to say that people trust catholic priests more because they don't marry and because they remain celibate.
Why is this so?
People are probably much more comfortable leaving their children or their wives alone with strange men when they know that those strange men have taken an unbreakable vow to remain celibate.
Now, obviously, some priests break this vow, but the perception is still that most priests remain true to this, and I I think that's almost certainly true that despite a few bad apples, most priests are acting in good faith.
So, the legitimacy of the church is threatened by allowing priests to marry, because you underlie or undermine the special relationship between priests and their flock.
Rather than being a special class of people, priests are now just like anyone else.
But what's more, when you change the rule, because the people making that decision are priests, it seems very self-serving.
It's a group of cardinals in the vatican, presumably, voting that they want to be able to marry, and I think that people are going to view that in a very negative light because it just looks like those people are lustful.
Our third and final argument is about division within the church.
When you want to change something that's been part of your dogma for fifteen hundred years, it's almost certain that some people will be opposed to that change, even if the powers that be support it.
Right now, the catholic church is the largest organization in the world period full stop.
It has more members than the communist party of china or any religious organization, about a billion.
We tell you that it is quite likely that you would lose hundreds of millions of members if you instituted this change, because many people around the world will be unwilling to accept it and many priest would be unwilling to accept it.
So the church would likely splinter.
So even if you think that all the leaders of the catholic church care about is maintaining their own power and worldly things, not theology, we tell you that you would reduce your own standing in the world by creating a schism within the catholic church if you were to abandon the vow of celibacy.
So for all of these reasons, the vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.
Thank you.