Private universities bring more good than harm.
So what we're going to advocate in this debate is that countries around the world should implement a system similar to the united states where there are both publicly and privately funded universities existing alongside one another.
We have three main arguments for why this is true.
But I think it would be useful to think about this as a comparison between say, berkeley in harvard in terms of public and private universities.
Obviously you can have very good universities of either caliber, at the other end you could have very bad universities of either caliber.
So that's not really what this is about.
But three arguments: first, in terms of research funds.
We don't think it's a coincidence that of the ten universities in the world that produce the most research, eight of them are private american universities, the other two being oxford and cambridge.
When you have a private university it's much easier to raise funds than for a public university.
First of all, you control your own endowment.
You can invest it however you wish.
Some people have jokingly called harvard a hedge fund with a school attached because their thirty five billion dollar endowment is managed by an extremely talented pool of financial advisers and the university makes tons and tons of money every year off of their investments.
Of course when it institution like harvard, yale, wherever, makes all of this money off of their investments, they're able to refund return that to research.
We see that schools like harvard or yale or stanford are able to fund a lot of internal research whereas public schools have to rely on things like the national endowment for the humanities, which may be going away soon because of president trump.
So we see that you get one, more research, and two, research funds that are more resilient to changes in government policy.
This is important because this research does things like discovering new medications, new engineering techniques, new computer programs, etcetera, that going to help real people and make the quality of life everywhere better.
Our second argument is about financial aid.
The other team's going to tell you that private universities are bad because they're expensive.
But what we tell you is that when the schools charge lots and lots of money, they're more able to offer aid to low income students.
Stanford for instance is free if your family makes less than seventy thousand dollars a year.
And then, from that, tuition and the cost of attendance is pro rated, based on your parents income, up until about a hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year, which is about a doctor's salary in this country.
So we see that universities are able to take the massive amounts of money that they make by billing the children of the elite and use it to subsidize low income people going to those schools.
This is as opposed to public schools which tend to have a low cost for everyone.
But even a relatively low cost of ten thousand dollars for a public university in a state like massachusetts or california, is still inaccessible to the poorest americans who have to go a deep into debt in order to attend school.
Ultimately we think that an elite education is much more in reach at private schools than public schools for the low income people.
Our final argument is about diversity of opinion.
Public schools are required to adhere to certain norms by their governments.
For instance, we see that public universities in the states often require that their staff be a-political, or require that equal numbers of conservatives and liberals are hired, or don't hire religious leaders as faculty.
On the other hand a private school like duke is free to hire priests as faculty.
Cornell, for instance, recently hired a very prominent catholic priest as a latin professor, something that could never happen at a public school.
And in addition they're free to allow their professors to express any political beliefs that they want.
This leads to a competitive marketplace where students can choose to go to a school that reflects their values or were students can choose to go and study with religious leaders and where the best people are more likely to become faculty because they're not excluded based on their political beliefs or their backgrounds.
So for these reasons private uni's print more good than harm.
Thank you.