The free market brings more harm than good.
I want to be very clear about what this debate is about, because I think that the other side has painted an unfair picture of the alternatives to the free market.
We don't have to defend, you know, stalin going around and stealing all of the grain from ukrainian peasants in the thirties, on our side.
What we're going defend is heavily regulated market economies.
We think that what this looks like, today, might be countries like china, where you have lots of state-owned industries that compete in a free market, or countries like norway, that have lots of state-owned industry that also competes on a free market, but also allows more smaller businesses to compete.
So with that in mind, we have two big arguments for why we think the free market is especially harmful.
The first is that the free market centralizes power.
Now the other team tells you " oh, in the free market, it's great.
Everyone's competing.
You can purchase from anybody you want.
There's so much individual freedom.
Everybody can start a business. "
But this isn't actually what happens.
We see that in any country with unregulated free markets, like britain or the US in the nineteenth century, that there is a trend toward monopoly.
Why is this true?
If you start out at the beginning of the free market environment with more resources than other people, maybe if your country's just coming over to capitalism, this would be the people who are powerful in the old regime.
You saw this in russia in the nineties that old communist people were able to come in and become the new oligarchs.
These people are able to amass many more resources than anybody else.
At that point, they have an easier time amassing even more resources, because they have so much more power relative to any other buyer.
That means that it's easy for them to do things like artificially lower prices to drive competitors out of the market.
This means that eventually you end up with only one group who's actually able to provide a good.
This was a huge problem in the united states in the early twentieth century before we started regulating the market, is that you had standard oil, which was the only oil company effectively in the united states, and they were able to jack up prices because they had no competitors, and this actually harmed development of the US and other countries who wanted to buy our oil.
These monopolies are able to be very coercive.
They can pay workers unfairly low wages because they can't get work anywhere else.
There is nowhere else.
They can refuse to pay taxes and the government will have to kowtow to them because ultimately, they're dependent on them for revenue.
Ultimately, these corporations become more powerful than the state, and there's no check on them from the people.
We think this is a tremendous harm that proves that the free market will always do more harm than good, because it undermines the legitimacy of a state.
Our second argument is that the free market harms more development.
Let's look at the countries that have been the most successful at developing in the twentieth century.
In nineteen seventeen, russia was about as poor as a country could get.
Most people were peasant farmers but because of centralized planning, russia went from a bunch of, you know, very poor wheat farmers to putting the first man in space only thirty years later, after a devastating war.
We see that with central planning it is very possible for countries to develop very quickly because they can say, " look, we can take the best of what worked in countries like britain and america and apply that here and avoid the pitfalls that they fell into. "
You see the same thing in china.
China went from a tremendously poor country to a relatively wealthy one very quickly, and we think that this is also because of central planning.
They were able to say, " we're going to build a hundred automobile factories, and we're not going to go through all of the silliness of having american-owned companies come in and do it for us.
We'll make them chinese-owned so that the money stays in china. "
If you look at other countries that have relied more on a free market, places like bangladesh, say, bangladesh and china started out in about the same condition in nineteen hundred but today, the average income in china is probably ten times higher than it is in bangladesh, and there's much more local industry there.
A successful free market needs regulation, and it needs a certain level of development.
If you just try to go straight from subsistence agriculture to totally unregulated free market, you're going to end up with foreign businesses or a few oligarchs controlling too much of your country.
So for these two reasons, because it centralizes power and it harms development, we think that the free market brings more harm than good.
Thank you.