We should privatize the united states social security.
So for those who don't know, here in the US, we have this program called social security.
It's basically a giant fund that everyone who works pays into, there's something called a payroll tax that everyone pays regardless of your income, I think it's about ten percent of your income.
And then when you retire, based on the amount that you paid into the fund, you receive a certain amount back as a check every month from the month you retire up until the month that you pass away.
So, you keep receiving that flat amount, regardless of how much or based on how much you paid in even if you live forty years after you retire, like my grandfather did.
So with that in mind, we have three arguments for you for why it would be better if we privatize social security.
And by the way, we think that what that means is that people would have a personal retirement savings account, but there would be a mandatory contribution.
So the ten percent of your income that would go to social security in the status quo, in our world, you would be required to put into a private fund which then you would choose to invest however you would, albeit we'd encourage people, you know, to put it in the low risk funds, but they would have some leeway over that.
Three arguments for you.
The first is that this would be better for retirees.
Realize that when you put money into the social security fund, you're basically making an interest-free loan to the american government.
Why is this true?
If you took all of your money and put it into the stock market, then you would reap the benefits of all of the interest.
So, over the long term, the market tends to return about five percent on investment.
So but we see that individuals don't reap anything like that from social security.
Instead, every year, congress raids the social security fund for the general fund in order to subsidize discretionary spending.
So basically congress is borrowing money from social security at zero percent interest to the american people, who are lending them all of this money and not receiving anything in return.
What we think that retirees, if they're going to lend money while they're working, should see some return on that.
There is certainly is risk to this lending.
So ultimately people would retire with a lot more money, because all of the money that they lend out, they would actually receive a return on.
The city of houston pioneered a program similar to this, and virtually everyone retired a millionaire, whereas most people who retire with social security live in abject poverty.
The second argument that we have for you is about why social security is not sustainable.
And this there are two arguments to this.
The first is that social security is a ponzi scheme.
What do I mean by that?
Social security relies on the idea that there will be more people paying in at any one time than there were people receiving, because individuals pay in much less than they take out.
When this program was founded in the thirties, you know, you retire at sixty five, I think most people lived to be sixty eight, so you were collecting for like two or three years.
But now people live into their eighties all the time, they're collecting for fifteen, twenty years.
So people receive much more money than they actually paid in, which means that you need more young people working, many more young people working, paying into the system than retirees in order to make it solvent.
But if you look at the demographics of america, there are many more people who are in their fifties and sixties than there are people in their twenties and thirties, which means that the whole system is a house of cards that is going to collapse in a few years' time.
We think it'd be better if people saved for themselves, so they weren't dependent on a smaller body of workers to take care of them in their old age.
The last thing that we're going to say is that social security is going to go bankrupt.
Most people think by the twenty thirties.
Because congress has been borrowing, basically stealing money from social security since the seventies, all of the interest that should have accrued has not accrued, which means that the fund is running out of money.
Right now it's still growing at a tiny rate, but as all of the baby boomer generation retires, the fund is going to run dry, and everyone who is contributing who is my age or twenty years older is going to see nothing in return for their investment in social security.
So for these reasons, we should privatize social security in the united states.
Thank you.