Abstinence only sex education brings more good than harm.
So in this debate we're talking about sex education provided to young people in schools which would teach them to abstain from sex until marriage, it wouldn't include things like condom use or education about birth control methods, it would just be focused on encouraging young people to remain abstinent as a way to avoid pregnancy and STDs.
So with that in mind, we have two related arguments for why we think this is ultimately going to be what's best.
But I think that before we get into that, when you judge this round, the thing that's best is going to be what's best for the young people who receive this type of education.
We what we mean is that the purpose of sex education obviously is to try to reduce unintended pregnancies and to reduce the spread of STDs.
So when you think about this debate, ultimately what we mean by more good than harm is that more young people will be able to avoid unwanted pregnancies, and be able to avoid STDs as a result of this abstinence only sex education.
So two arguments.
The first is that you get more parental support.
We think that in order for sex education to work, you need parents to opt their children into that sex education.
Remember that in many parts of the united states, sex education is opt-in opt-out.
Parents choose whether or not they want their children to go through sex ed.
What that means is that even if you had the best sex ed regime in the world planned that would convince everybody to wear a condom every time they have sex and help all of the girls in the class to get on birth control etcetera, if none of the parents are willing to put their children into that class, then it doesn't help anybody.
You can offer as liberal or radical a regime as you want, but if none of the young people are actually in the room to hear it, then it doesn't do any good.
We think that ultimately, you need to produce something that is acceptable to the parents of the children, because they're the ones making this decision.
Moreover, if the parents tell their children look, what you're hearing is a bunch of liberal nonsense, don't listen to it, then the kids aren't going to listen and they're not going to wear the condom, they're not going to get on birth control, etcetera.
So we see that ultimately, what you really need is a sex ed regime that is acceptable to parents, if you want to help young people.
Our second argument is related but broader, and this is about how abstinence only sex ed reaches communities who would otherwise be excluded from sex education.
So think about communities that are very conservative.
Think about certain muslim communities or certain evangelical protestant communities, mormons, groups like that.
These groups are not going to provide their children with a lot of sexual education, compared to what secular westernized parents might provide their children with.
These kids are much more at risk of not understanding the risks of unintended pregnancy, or understanding how STDs are actually transmitted.
So these are the most vulnerable people in this debate is the children who live in those types of communities.
And these are also communities whose beliefs are antithetical to the idea of comprehensive sex ed.
Which means that even if it will be better in a vacuum if every child received comprehensive sex ed, children from these communities will always be excluded if that's the only type of sex ed that you offer.
We think that you need to be as inclusive as possible to help the most children, and that means offering abstinence only sex education, because it's the only type of sex education that these young people are likely to be allowed to have.
And we tell you that even if the other side gets up here and tells you look, abstinence only sex education doesn't work, young people are going to have sex no matter what you tell them, ultimately this isn't going to be effective, it's certainly better than no sex education.
Recognize that unless somebody is teaching them, many young people aren't going to understand why they have a period, they're not gonna understand how pregnancy works, young men aren't going to understand young women and vice versa.
So at the end of the day, we need to provide some level of sex education and this is the only vehicle that we have to do so.
Thank you.