Childlessness is advantageous.
So in this debate, we're talking about people who could choose to have a child, not people who are unable to do so or prevented by their government from having children, but people who could choose to have a child and choose not to.
We think that that is an advantage for them over the course of their life, and obviously there's pros and cons to having children.
We think that in order to win this debate, our side only has to show that there are more benefits than harms.
Three arguments: the first is financial.
So, childlessness is a financial advantage because raising children is tremendously expensive and, this might sound a little callous, but you don't get a big return on your investment.
If you think, for instance, about the cost of raising a child, they say it cost over or about a million dollars to raise a child in america today.
So if the average american makes two to three million dollars over the course of their lifetime, then an enormous portion of their lifetime earnings goes into taking care of this child for eighteen years.
I assume that that includes things like higher education and the cost of healthcare and things like that.
But look, imagine you didn't have a child and you put all of that money into a retirement account.
By the time you retired, you'd be a millionaire.
And on top of the money that you already would have saved, you're probably a millionaire twice over.
We think that individuals will have much greater security in their old age as a result of not having children.
Which gets directly at a big argument for the other side, which is that they're going to tell you that children take care of you in old age, so you need to have children to look out for you.
But your children, at the time when you're old, are going to be having children of their own.
They're not going to be able to continue to support you at a really good level, at the same level that you could support yourself if you just didn't have children to begin with.
So I think it's clear that the money that you save is more than worth it.
Our second argument is about how this helps your career, and I want to say that this goes double for women.
Recognize that if you're a woman and you're a few years out of college or secondary school, and you're thinking about having a child, let's say you're twenty eight, which is probably the average age in the US, you're going to have to put your career on hold, not only for the time that you're pregnant, but also recovery afterwards.
And probably when you have, you know, a young baby around the house, most people want to be home in that time to look after them.
So you're taking three, four years possibly, if you have two kids, out of your career, at the minimum, and it's going to be very difficult for you to come back to your career from that.
You'll be making much less money than men would at the same time, who didn't have to put their career on hold, and also you're setting yourself back, because you're giving up some of your prime earning years in your early thirties in order to raise this child.
So we see that, ultimately, particularly for women, not having children makes your career much better.
Now the other team is going to say, " oh.
Well, it's okay to put your career on hold because there's all these benefits in terms of how good you feel about being a parent ", but lots of people feel really good about being a lawyer or a doctor or a professor or any other job.
But I think those are good examples because they're the kind of jobs you can't really have or that it's very difficult to have if you're a woman who has children at a young age because, ultimately, you're gonna have to take time off in your career when you would just be getting established and your career might never recover.
And even for men, we think that your career will be benefited by being able to move around more, obviously, you have more flexibility if you don't have children, and by not having to worry as much about, you know, spending time at home.
Our last argument, then, is about why we think you get more individual freedom.
So, if you have children, suddenly your first obligation is to them, not to yourself.
As a parent, we think that your primary responsibility has got to be to your children.
They can't look out for themselves, they're entirely dependent on you to take care of them.
Which means that if you have something, say you wanted to quit your well-paying job in order to go be a carpenter.
That would be pretty irresponsible if you had two children who are relying on you to help them pay for university, because you're really limiting their personal freedom in the future.
So you can't do something like that.
We think that you have a lot more ability to change careers, to move, to decide that you want to get a divorce, anything like that, if you don't have children.
So because you save money, it's good for your career, and it maximizes your personal freedom, we think childlessiness is advantageous.
Thank you.