We should not legalize polygamy.
Now I want to be clear what we're advocating.
We are not saying that it should be illegal for people to be in a relationship with multiple other people or to choose to live with multiple partners.
We think that what people do is by and large their own business as long as they're not harming anyone else.
What we're advocating is that there should be no state recognition of these relationships and just the same way that a person could live with their boyfriend or girlfriend and the government would have no idea that was going on and it wouldn't be their business, we think they should be able to live with their boyfriends or girlfriends.
That there shouldn't be any criminal punishment or civil punishment but at the same time that it's really not the state's business what people get up to.
So that's what we're advocating on our side.
We should not legalize it in the sense of creating a marriage contract which is what danny has advocated for in the last speech.
So our first argument is that existing laws around marriage are poorly suited to accommodate polygamous people.
Right now marriage largely exists as a way for people to deduct one's spouse's work from their own taxes.
So we see that for instance, if one's person is staying home in the relationship that the other person will pay a lower rate of tax in order to offset the cost of maintaining their partner.
This is fundamentally the main reason why people want to report their marriage to the government is to get the financial benefits that come along with it.
But it would be very difficult to adapt this for a polygamous relationship.
If you had three women all living together who were married and one of them worked wold she get to write off two people if two of them worked?
Did they each get to write off half of a person?
Does one of them have to choose who gets to deduct the partner, in which case it basically works like the status quo.
It's ultimately very unclear to me how we could adopt this fairly.
It seems likely that either you would create an advantageous situation for polygamous people in which case many people might form these marriages just as a way to avoid paying tax without actually being involved in them, or it would create a disadvantageous situation in which case no one would choose to enter into these contracts because they would be better off going through traditional marriage or not filing a marriage at all.
Ultimately, marriage is a social institution.
There's no reason that we need to keep trying to shoehorn these social institutions into the tax code and it would only be worse than the status quo if we try to shoehorn in polygamous relationships to the tax code.
So that just seems rather silly.
But our second argument is that this is fundamentally unnecessary.
As long as you don't penalize people for being in a polygamous relationship, there's no need to actively reward them for doing so.
It may be true that some governments have a reason to incentivize people for entering into marriages, for instance, countries like austria that a very low population growth or even population decline, might want people to get married so that they have babies.
But in as much as we let gay people get married, it seems clear that can't be the only purpose of marriage.
So really the question comes down to why do we let people get married?
And I think that the answer is well we've always done that.
It's not really a necessary thing and the future probably looks a lot more like getting rid of marriage as a state institution at all rather than keeping it around and expanding it to polygamists are polyamorous people.
Ultimately this would just be an unnecessary expansion of a government institution that doesn't really make a lot of sense once you start to look at it and think about where it comes from and why we have it in the first place.
But moreover, as I already explained it probably won't even help the polygamous people since either many people will take advantage of it and it won't specifically advantage these people and it'll probably be rolled back, or it won't be very generous and there will be no reason for people to enter into it.
So for all of these reasons, we should not legalize polygamy in the form of creating legal marriages for polygamous people.
Thank you.