We should not privatize social security in the united states.
Now before I get into my arguments, I want to concede some good points that my opponent made.
First of all, yes social security has historically seen about half the rate of return as market rates but we think that just before we get into anything else it's worth pointing out why this is true.
First of all, oftentimes the social security fund has been used to provide for emergency spending.
It's kind of a piggy bank that the US government taps into sometimes for better or worse but we think that ultimately it does a lot of good for the government to have a few trillion dollars on hand in the event of a disaster or an emergency that requires liquid money but secondly, it also has lower rates of return because it's very low risk.
It's invested in the absolute safest way possible and guaranteed by the US government so no one's willing to pay very high interest because it's almost certainly going to be paid back.
But with that in mind, we have three arguments for why it ought not be privatized.
First is that this would be bad for people who are retired right now.
Some have called social security a ponzi scheme.
That may or may not be unfair but what's certainly true is that people who are retired right now rely on people currently working paying into the system in order to meet their needs.
Here's why: when the system was implemented back by FDR many people started receiving social security before they had worked a full forty years after all, this was designed to alleviate the great depression.
So there's always been a catch-up affect where younger people who are working are paying into social security on behalf of those who are currently retired with the expectation that younger people will pay for them when their time comes.
Ultimately, we have an obligation to fulfill the expectation people have that there will be someone paying in for them once they retire.
Those who have recently retired paid in their entire life expecting that they would get what was due to them and it would be wrong to take away all of the people paying into the system now and just leave them without any way to fund their own retirement.
So we think this is harmful to current retirees.
Our second argument is that this disproportionately harms the poor.
Although social security is graded by the amount that you contribute, one good thing about it is that low and high income people can participate equally.
You don't have to be educated about how to invest or how to manage a mutual account if you get social security.
So even an illiterate janitor who works for forty years and pays in his do will be taken care of in his retirement maybe not with great luxury, but he won't fall into absolute poverty either.
We think that these people who aren't educated enough to manage a roth IRA or an index fund account are those who are really likely to suffer in the status quo and that these are also the poorest people who are most likely to rely on their social security or their pension fund.
So we ought be very concerned about helping those individuals in particular and they are in fact worse off under the government's proposition.
And our final argument is that this would lead to more demand on social services.
The most common complaint about social security is that it's very expensive and the government spends too much money on it.
But if the trade-off is more spending on other social programs, then there's no reason to get rid of it.
If you end social security many people will either have their accounts fail, who right now that's impossible for it to happen, or they will otherwise have to rely on social welfare.
So these people will be getting medicare and medicaid, they'll be getting government insurance, they will be relying on snap and other government benefits, that's the food stamp program by the way.
Therefore, we think it's likely that you will see increased spending in other parts of the social welfare system that will offset much, not all, but much of the benefit fiscally that the other side might claim to see.
So I think that mitigates a lot of the benefits that they have to offer.
So because it harms retirees, it disproportionately harms the poor, and it would lead to more people on welfare, we should not privatize social security.
Thank you.