We should prohibit flag burning.
So while I suppose this might be an international issue in some sense, really I think what this debate is about is whether the united states should continue to allow flag burning.
There's been several supreme court cases about this in the US and many states continue to try to ban flag burning, although the supreme court keeps striking it down.
So with that background in mind, we have three arguments for why we should prohibit flag burning, particularly in the US.
First, is about the popular will.
So the US is in a democracy.
The government gains legitimacy by paying attention to the will of the people.
With that in mind it seems completely true that the majority of the american people support a ban on flag burning.
Most americans are quite patriotic, have family members in the military and generally think that flag burning is unacceptable.
It's seen as a sign of anti-american radicalism globally.
When most americans see someone burning a flag, they don't think of principled resistance to some policy of the american government, they think about iranians burning the american flag and shouting for the death of barack obama and things like that.
So the imagery is really negative and the american people have decided that this is something that they think is unacceptable.
We think that since the legitimacy of the government derives from popular will, that american courts should not continue to prevent state and federal government from making these laws banning flag burning.
We think that if anything the fact that people continue to vote for politicians who pass these kind of laws indicates that there is a very strong public will for this and one the supreme court ought respect.
Our second argument is that this is disrespectful to veterans.
So all around the united states there are tens and tens of thousands of people who were injured in the service of their country in various conflicts.
You might say that those conflicts weren't good things in themselves but that doesn't change the fact that the enlisted soldiers who fought in them didn't get us into those wars, they just helped get us out of them.
We think that many of these people feel personally attacked because of flag burning.
I think that when someone knows lots of people who were injured or even killed in the defense of the flag, it seems like a personal affront to them to see the flag being burned.
And I'd like to compare this to the concept of fighting words.
In the US, in some states, there's a principle that you are allowed to defend yourself if someone else does harm to you and that this can include speech if those words are fighting words.
This is kind of loosely defined in the law, but in general it might be something like an insult against your character or your family's character, something like that.
We think that burning the flag is a similar type of speech in a sense.
It is like fighting words against people who served in the military.
And in the same way that we allow reaction against those people, one, by banning fighting words and two, by allowing them to defend themselves we ought ban flag burning.
Our last argument is about why this is consistent with other limitations on freedom of speech, so similar to that.
But I'd also like to point out that flag burning is seen as inciting violence.
Recognize that intent doesn't matter when determining if speech is inciting violence.
If someone says, go do some violent act, and they intended it as a joke, and other people follow through on that, and then someone is harmed, we think that the person who spoke still ought be held responsible for their speech.
But with flag burning, even if people don't necessarily mean to incite anti-american violence, we think that that still can be the outcome.
That it does inspire sentiments that can lead to violence, it makes people think that they're going to have more support if they take violent action against the US government, and things like that.
So at the end of the day we think that in as much as this is consistent with banning someone from yelling fire in a crowded movie theater because of the risks to the public, we ought ban flag burning as well.
So with all of these reasons in mind we should prohibit flag burning.
Thank you