The vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
So by this we mean that the catholic church, which for centuries now has required that priests be celibate, should give up this requirement.
So priests ought be allowed to marry and have sexual intercourse, the same as any other married adult in the catholic faith.
We don't want this debate to be about the theological implications of the vow of celibacy.
We're just going to say that orthodox priests and protestant priests and even certain rights of catholicism, aside from roman catholicism, these or christian groups allow their priests to marry, so we see that clearly there is some religious ground for this practice to be allowed.
But with that aside, we want to get into two major arguments of this debate that we think will be more accessible.
The first is that the vow of celibacy dissuades young men from joining the priesthood.
So we see that because of the vow of celibacy, many young men who might be deeply religious, who might be very attracted to life in the church, are likely to turn to secular occupations instead.
Indeed, this is one of the reasons why we think there may originally had been a vow of celibacy was to sort of weed out those of lesser faith.
But we think that a result of this is that many of the most qualified candidates will choose not to join the church.
Imagine that you had a hundred young men in the city of boston every year who are interested in becoming priests, and fifty of them are, you know, intelligent, driven young men who you would want to become priests, but only twenty five out of the total group are willing to take this vow of celibacy.
Half who are the kind of competent people that we want and half who are incompetent.
We see that if you have a certain demand for, say, thirty priests that year, that you will have to take some of the incompetent men, whereas if you got rid of this requirement, you would only take the confident young men.
We think that although obviously these numbers are made up, you can see that you're more likely to get incompetent priests as a result of the vow of celibacy, and you're likely to have young men who could otherwise have served the church in a very fruitful, useful and personally fulfilling way, turn to other occupations in its stead.
We think that the church suffers when there is comparatively poor leadership.
That you would be able to reach out to more people through evangelism, that you would be able to better care for current members of your parish, that you would be able to fill positions which have gone empty, there are many parishes around the world which don't have a priest because there's a shortage of capable priests.
We think that all of these harms could be avoided by simply removing the vow of celibacy.
Our second argument is about how we think that this is a law made to be broken.
What do we mean by this?
We think that it's very difficult for any young person, most people become a priest when they're fairly young, to really weigh what this means over the course of their lifetime.
You know, a young person who is a virgin may not fully understand the implications of what they are signing up for when they choose to take this vow of celibacy, which means that it's quite likely that they'll eventually break their vow.
We think that this has several major harms.
One, is that it means that people who were doing a pretty good job as a priest otherwise will be removed from their parish and sent off to be isolated from the public, because that's generally what happens when priests break their vows, which means that they won't be helping people, they won't be reaching out to those who need them, their talents will go to waste.
And on top of that, that optically it makes the church look hypocritical if priests are violating their vows.
So we think that this will turn many people, especially young people, away from the church, because they think that the leadership of the church is not living up to the same standards that ordinary people are expected to in terms of maintaining vows.
So ultimately we think that because this is such a difficult vow to keep, it has many harms to the church in terms of its personnel and its public perception.
So for these reasons, the vow of celibacy ought to be abandoned.
Thank you.