The vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.
So, we think that the catholic church should continue to require that its priests be unmarried.
We have a few arguments for our side.
The first is about the theological underpinnings of the requirement that priests be unmarried, because I think that the last speaker missed one of the finer points of this argument, which is that the relationship between a priest and god involves a sacrament.
Now, sacraments are one of the most important parts of catholic doctrine doctrine, and the idea is basically that when a person enters into a certain relationship with god or with another person, something changes about their very soul.
So, marriage is one type of sacrament.
When you're married in the catholic church, they believe that something has changed about your soul and the soul of the person that you marry, so that you are now bound together.
So this changes your relationship with each other and with god on some sort of metaphysical level.
At the same time, when one becomes a priest, this is also a sacrament, and something changes about the nature of your soul and your relationship with god as well, in particular when the bishop lays on hands to you.
So, we can see that from the perspective of catholic theology, these two things are incompatible.
These two sacraments cannot exist alongside one another.
So for we observers who are not catholic, it may seem like we could say, " oh, well, just change the sacraments so that they're compatible, " but that goes against the very idea of these sacraments.
And these are ideas that go back for thousands of years and that many great philosophers and theologians have worked on, so we think that it would be very difficult to come up with a legitimate argument for doing so within the frame of what catholics believe.
So we think that from a theological perspective, this motion doesn't even make a great deal of sense, because marriage and the priesthood cannot simultaneously exist for one person.
Our second argument is about the importance of the celibacy of priests to the church's members and followers, the lay people.
For these people, they feel that they can trust their families to be around priests because they know that priests are celibate.
So, in cultures where it would be unusual for an unmarried woman to be alone around a man, she might be able to be alone to confess her sins to a priest or interact with him, because it's known in that community that priests are celibate.
At the same time, people may feel more comfortable confiding in priests about problems that they have in their life because they know that priests are set apart from other people, in part by the sacrament.
So, I think there's two aspects to this: first, that people trust the priesthood more because they see this sacrifice that they're making, and second, that the legitimacy of the priesthood, in terms of the authority that they have over people, is partially derived from the sacrifice that they're making.
So there's a huge value to the followers of the church in terms of being able to trust and find the priest legitimate.
And our third point is that, ultimately, the vow of celibacy is voluntary.
No one is forced to become a priest, and people can even leave the priesthood, although it's obviously discouraged.
So, what yuval talks about, in terms of this being an unfair sacrifice to ask of people, isn't really true.
Everyone makes their own decision about whether or not they're willing to do this.
And we think that ultimately the fact that there are millions of people in the world today and tens of millions throughout history who have been willing to make a vow of celibacy indicates that while this is obviously a big thing to ask of people, it's not beyond the realm of reason.
And we see that this doesn't just exist within the catholic church.
The idea of ascetics and asceticism exist in many cultures around the world, such as some buddhist monks and religious leaders in other traditions as well.
So we think that this is a common idea and not one that's so absurd to ask of people.
For all these reasons, the vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.
Thank you.