The free market brings more good than harm.
So by the free market, we mean a system in which there is effectively very little regulation besides contracts being enforced, and people exchange goods for services, money can be exchanged freely, and people can charge or pay as much as they want for something.
So we have three main arguments for why we think the free market is good.
The first is about innovation.
We think that on the free market, there is a lot of incentive for people to innovate to create new ideas.
Why?
If you go to market with the same old ideas that everyone else has, it'll be very difficult to compete.
There is a tendency for a few actors to eventually control most of a market for a certain good or service, perhaps not total monopoly on a really free market, but a tendency for a few large providers to ultimately outcompete everyone else, which means that in order to succeed, you need to bring something innovative or new to the market.
What this means is that you directly tie people's interest to creating new ideas, new goods, new services.
We think that this does more good than harm because it leads to new solutions to old problems.
Without the free market, you might run into a situation where people don't have to innovate in order to succeed, such as if you have a lot of regulation that allows people to compete at an equal rate, using old ideas that they didn't come up with.
Now at that point, you wouldn't have things like new cures for diseases coming to the market.
You wouldn't have machines that can improve people's quality of life.
We would rather live in a world where people are taking risks to develop new drugs, to create new technologies that can let us feed the hungry and provide clean water to children who don't have it right now, and you only get that because of this incentive to innovate.
Our second argument is about efficiency.
So, on the free market, you don't have all the protections of regulation, which means that if you can cut a dollar here, then that's a dollar going into your pocket.
If you're spending too much money compared to your competitors, then you're going to go out of business and not be able to compete anymore.
What this means is that prices are going to be driven to the lowest possible level at which a service can still be provided.
This is obviously a good thing for consumers, because it means that even the very poor in a society can afford more goods by comparison.
But it's also good for posterity because it means that in the future, new goods, new services, new technologies will be built up on an understanding of efficiency, of cutting the fat, of doing everything with as little as possible.
And that will lead to more resources being available for investment back into the economy, back into new businesses that will just feed back into the innovation that we told you about before.
Our last argument is about maximizing personal freedom.
We think that regulation often prevents people from starting businesses that they would have otherwise been able to start and succeed at, for unintended consequences.
You have almost side effects of regulation, for instance.
What we get through the free market is a world in which people have the most control over how they spend their time, over how they conduct their business.
And since individuals are the best arbiter of what is good for themselves, every person has more information about their own interest than the government or any other actor.
We think that individuals will allocate their time more effectively, that individuals will better act in such a way as to facilitate their own happiness and success because of the free market.
At the end of the day, therefore, people will be able to act in such a way that will liberate themselves and their families.
You'll see people from different backgrounds being better able to approach the market, because they're able to do it in a way that suits themselves.
We think that this will encourage more innovation and efficiency, but also lead to more personal happiness and fulfillment.
So for these reasons, the free market brings more good than harm.
Thank you.