We should not prohibit flag burning.
We think that all countries which grant people the right to freedom of speech have an obligation to allow them to burn their flag.
I think that especially in the united states where this is a common point of debate, it is very controversial and very contradictory for the united states to ban flag burning in some jurisdictions while also claiming to lead the world in terms of the right to freedom of speech.
With that in mind, we have three points.
The first, unsurprisingly, is on the freedom of speech, the second is on what this does for dissidents and the third is on why this is a harmless act.
So first, regarding freedom of speech, it seems trivially obvious that speech and act are indistinct from one another.
Speaking is in itself an act.
We don't see that it should be distinct from anything that people do.
In as much as people have a right to freedom of expression that is broader than merely the freedom of speech, we think that the first amendment to the US constitution or similar guarantees in the constitutions and basic laws of other countries must include flag burning.
After all, this is an expression of one's political will and one's beliefs every bit as much as participating in a protest or rally is and indeed we often see that flag burning is part of protests or rallies against the current government or against acts of that government.
So suppressing flag burning is no different than suppressing the right to have protests or the right to speak out against the government.
But more over, the other side might say that there are some cases when we limit freedom of speech but we would argue that for instance, banning hate speech or speech that insights someone to commit a crime is fundamentally different than protesting a country by destroying a symbol of that country.
It seems ridiculous to construe that flag burning is a threat of violence against that country since no individual is actually able to enact violence against an entire state in a meaningful way.
We think that more often it represents a principle and that we should allow people to express those views even if we find them distasteful sometimes.
But our second argument is about why banning flag burning would actually be harmful for the state that did so.
We think that if you ban flag burning you prove dissidents are correct.
Oftentimes people who burn the flag claim that the government of that country is oppressive or mistreating them in some way and this is why they feel the need to destroy a flag.
We think that if you crackdown on those people's rights that you're only proving them correct.
You are treating them differently from other citizens and you are limiting their ability to express themselves.
In other words, this is self-defeating.
Many people who might not have been sympathetic to this flag burner previously, will now be more sympathetic because they see that the state is taking away their rights and they'll be more willing to stand up for that person or to go to their meetings or to listen to what they have to say and you may actually end up creating more dissidents when you ban their ability to speak.
So we think that ultimately this can only be detrimental for the state that implements it.
Why is that?
Well that leads nicely into our third point which is that flag burning is harmless.
Why do we ban things?
Well sometimes we ban something because there are harms to a third party.
This is why I can't smoke outside my apartment building.
It might get into someone else's lungs and give them cancer.
But obviously flag burning doesn't really have any third party harms I guess unless someone breathes in those nylon fumes but really no one is harmed by this practice aside from the state perhaps but there's no third party harm.
Next we ban things because they might be dangerous to the person who is doing them and that person can't make an informed decision.
But I think that generally speaking we let people make their own political decisions and therefore we ought assume that people know what they're getting up to when they burn a flag.
So I don't think there's any reasonable standard under which we ought to destroy this right to burn flags.
Thank you.