We should disband asean.
This is the association of southeastern asian nations.
So, members include countries like malaysia, indonesia, thailand and some of their neighbors.
These countries have a relatively large GDP when you add them all together, something approaching trillions of dollars, and we think that ultimately, when we say should, we mean on balance, it would be preferable to what exists now, it would be basically a good thing if it were disbanded.
So, the purpose of asean like, in name, is to promote growth and stability in southeast asia.
We're going to give you two arguments for why we think asean actually undermines those purposes and is a negative thing: so, first, we think that asean encourages economic stagnation.
Recognize that the world is rapidly changing, particularly right now.
We've seen recently the global financial crisis, increases in terrorism and international conflict and this is, generally speaking, a time of great change in the world after the nineteen-nineties were a time of relative peace.
So, what we see is that is slow to act and fundamentally conservative.
It seeks to preserve the status quo, it seeks to encourage things that have worked in the past, and ultimately, the outcome of this is that it prevents its members from taking swift action, be that economic or military action, in the face of crisis.
It encourages them to be very conservative in times when circumstances call for a bit of daring.
We think that this makes countries less flexible and that in the face of a rapidly changing world, it would be better if countries were more flexible, were swifter to face challenges than they are as a result of asean.
The other side might say that the organization can be reformed, but at that point, you're moving away from its core principles and you might as well just disband it.
We also think that there's a certain amount of bias in favor of the status quo, an assumption that just because things have been done a certain way in the past that that's how they ought to be done, inherent in asean's thinking.
It assumes that old economic strategies will work and it also assumes that stability is good.
We tell you that a certain amount of good change, of radical economic policy can work, particularly in these countries that have seen rapid growth in recent years, and on top of that, that stability is sometimes bad if that stability is keeping a harmful situation in place for a long period of time.
So, we think that asean is actually preventing good change and leading to stagnation.
Our second argument is that we think asean is fundamentally undemocratic.
So, two sub-points to this because we think that there are democratic and undemocratic nations affected differently by this organization.
So, in democratic countries like malaysia, where you have basically fair elections and people choose their government, we tell you that this limits the will of the people.
If they want to engage in a popular policy which is contrary to asean policy, they are bound by treaty not to do so, even if it's something that millions of people want to see happen.
So, this might mean the exploitation of local resources or seeking out new trade relations outside of the region.
We think that it is not a good idea for countries to limit the ability of their people to control policy because people know their own interest and should be allowed to vote in favor of it.
But we also see that asean props up dictatorships in countries like thailand or vietnam.
We think that it is unfortunate that the organization to preserve a status quo in which millions of people are not free and are having their rights violated.
We think that this is fundamentally disgraceful and that it's something that ought not continue.
Therefore, it would be better if the organization were disbanded so that there was no one trying to prop up stability for countries where the status quo is harmful and in cases, even evil.
We think, therefore, that asean harms people in member states either by limiting their democratic freedom if they live in a democratic society or by condemning them to continue to live in these dictatorships if they live in a less democratic society.
So, for this reason, it seems better if asean were to be dissolved rather than continued.
So, because it encourages stagnation and because it is harmful for the people who live in these countries, we should disband asean.
Thank you.