Just because something has problems or is harmful does not mean that we jump to banning it.
Two main areas of clash on why we ought not ban boxing.
First, we think that people have a right to consent into these harms for personal gains or personal reasons.
It's silly on the part of tim to say that somehow people who have spent a large portion of their lives around boxers have spent thousands of hours within the ring getting beat up and have followed the careers of their fellows and watched what happens to them after they are over to say that somehow these individuals cannot internalize the harm.
Sure, maybe if their only exposure to boxing was their first or second time in the ring, but this just isn't the way that training works which means it isn't the reality.
We think that at the point that these people definitely know the risk yet choose to do it anyway, there has to be a reason for it and just because the government cannot account for it does not mean that the government is justified in banning it.
At the point that this is something that these people are passionate about and feel that it will support them financially, we allow people to make much we allow people to make these decisions even if they might be physically bad for them.
Recognize we do this even for much smaller, less important reasons.
Jobs like construction and sports like wrestling which is literally the same thing as boxing are also situations in which you are going to be like losing large amounts of function as you grow older, putting yourself into a lot of danger, yet somehow this discussion is only about banning boxing.
At the point that it's not unique and more important than some of these other examples, we think you cannot ba-ban it.
More than this though, the basis of democracy is to allow people to make even personally harmful decisions because they know their contexts more than the government ever will.
Tim had to show a third-party harm not just a personal harm because we think that at the point that we allow people to do things even like smoking cigarettes that are massive personal harms, and partially second-party harms, then or third-party harms then this is not even close in magnitude.
Our second area of clash has to do with embracing the violent aspects of society.
We are never going to be able to get rid of rid of humanity's groser aspects.
There's always going to be a partial enjoyment of violence and imagination that includes these crude details and includes enjoying when people are fighting each other.
We see this generationally, we've come from we've come from gladiatorial wars and now at least we regulate it to things like boxing or wrestling.
But regardless of what time era you are in, there's always some kind of blood sport that has to engage the public.
We prefer for this to be publicly fulfilled rather than forced underground because that way you can actually limit the impact by maintaining boundaries.
You can create rules such as what occurs in sports like judo or boxing.
With regards to how hard you can hit, what kind of punches you can use, and where you can hit.
What this means is that rather than showing people unfettered versions of violence, you can show them things that tell them there is a healthy way to do it versus an unhealthy way and given that if you do not teach them a healthy way, they will always defer to the less healthy way.
We prefer a world in which we're showing them images that contain those boundaries.
Because I think the problem with tim's advocacy is that he pretends that these kind of blood sports would not exist if not for boxing, but this just isn't true.
You see this in underground cock fights and under like and you see in situations in which even in in which when we have in in like schools in which you had bans on violent sports, you see that they often form underground clubs in which students participate in these activities anyway.
In the end, violence is part of human nature and if we do not embrace it in some way, then it becomes much more dangerous under the surface.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.