The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize the growing of coca leaf.
So I think that the three main areas of clash: first on the difference between coca versus cocaine.
Recognize first that there isn't a right to ban.
Coca is a component of a drug, not the drug itself.
The government can ban the item if it itself is harmful, or if there's a pertinent government interest involved.
But the problem here is that there is that neither of these are met when you are banning the component.
Like coca leaves are not harmful to individuals or those who are external to them, and it also isn't actually pertinent government interest to ban the plant insofar as what the government is trying to criminalize is the drug itself.
There also doesn't exist a precedent in the status quo to ban coca.
You can't ban components of drugs in so far as things like the components of meth are not banned or the components of cocaine, which include battery acid, gasoline, cough syrup.
None of these are banned because we recognize that they serve utile like needs of society in other respects and thus ought not be banned.
Also, recognize that coca leaves are much less harmful even than other things like cigarettes.
Like, it has been judged as a much more light narcotic than tobacco and it's something that is closer to caffeine.
Which means the item itself is not harmful either, and as such it not ought be banned.
Our second area of clash is about government interest.
We think there's actually a pertinent government interest in not banning the coca leaf for two main reasons: first, economics.
Recognize that new markets are always good.
It means that you stop having to import the coca that is used to do things like create like chocolate, or anything else that uses coca, and it also means that you can start exporting your own to other countries that might need it.
Insofar as we have fairly like diversified and like intense technologies regarding like greenhouse growing and things like that.
It also means that new jobs are developed around this industry, which is always good insofar as this creates economic stimulus and allows individuals who previously could not support themselves to do so.
But the second reason there's a pertinent government interest is in terms of the regulations that can now be added.
It is infinitely easier to regulate and track production that in in our world, insofar as currently any grown coca is likely going directly to cocaine because it is all illegal and so the only reason you would risk being caught with it if you were making enough money to justify the fact that you were growing up in the first place.
Making it legal means it'll means that groups that like previously might have been growing it for cocaine or like already have the infrastructure to grow it and don't want to be involved in such a risky business, are much more likely to reallocate those resources and grow it legally.
But it also just means it's a lot easier to track if you have to keep a registry of how many coca farms there are everywhere, and so you can like track how much is going into the market versus how much like was produced, things like that.
Our third area of clash is about coca being a helpful product.
Recognize that there has been a lot of like light research done that has shown that coca can actually be really really helpful in terms of like aiding digestion, fixing altitude sickness, helping with fatigue, helping with weight loss, but there has never been any like real intense study into any of these fields, in part because it's been banned so it's too risky for scientist to spend time on it because they see like better to spend time elsewhere.
We think precluding this research is really really damning, insofar as it's probably good if we create a world in which we utilize our resources to the greatest extent and stop being limited by an arbitrary fear of this maybe being used to help with a drug that manages to make its way into our borders either way.
I think a major problem in this round is that is that criminalizing coca leaf doesn't actually prevent people from getting high off of cocaine or obtaining cocaine in other ways.
At the point that that's true you might as well not ban it at all.
Also, like chocolate production is probably good and it's something that is becoming more and more extinct recently and so like we think that stimulating that as well has a positive effect.
Proud to propose.