The motion for today's debate is that we should ban human cloning.
We think currently, human cloning is used in a couple of ways.
It can be used for research where embryos are cloned repeatedly and then embryonic stem cells are taken from those embryos and the embryos are discarded.
It can be used with research with regards to genetics or modeling a person's conditions using cloning.
We don't think society has yet gotten to a point in which we are cloning entire humans and allowing them to live through adulthood but should we get to that point we would also think that that ought be banned.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on the use of humans as a means to an end.
Recognize that cloning necessitates the creation of a human being.
In research cloning also usually means the killing of a human being because the embryos or the fetuses that are created are often discarded after use and thus they're they are ended.
The problem with this is that you are using a human to achieve a goal.
Whether you're doing it because you are researching, whether you are doing it because a couple cannot have a baby and you are giving them one, by god just adopt.
There's a lot of unwanted children in this world.
Like recognize that these are still goals that you are using a human being to achieve.
So you're using them because you want to get better long term research.
You are using them to achieve the goal of making this couple happy.
The problem with this is that humans have an inherent value and it is bad to instrumentalize them because it strips them of their rights and dignity.
So say that I exist as an individual.
Recognizing that I have inherent value that stems from my ability to value myself, my ability to feel and to suffer.
If someone just comes along and says that they are now going to use me to like help them in a goal say that I'm very good at math and without my consent they like use me to get better test scores for an for like a very like loose example.
We think this would be unjustified in so far as I am a person who deserves to be evaluated as a whole human rather as just a human calculator and denying those rights allows us to dehumanize individuals stop valuing them in the long term.
So it becomes a slippery slope of sorts where we stop valuing human lives because we see it utile to ourselves to use them in research and this then becomes an expansion upon this utility where we say well maybe it becomes more utile to me now in the future to put certain humans below others and like they deserve less rights.
It these this kind of measure of human value with regards to utility is very dangerous because not all humans are going to be utile to one individual.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it exploits women.
Cloning and especially research cloning requires the harvest of many egg cells in so far as scientists haven't yet found a way to recreate a woman's like a woman's egg.
What this does is further capitalizes on a woman's body as being good for corporate use.
So in the same way that we find advertisements that use women's bodies to sell products and use them as objects to do so problematic we think this is very similar because it is saying that your body is good for capitalism and thus we will harvest your egg cells again denouncing you as a being deserving of rights and using you as a means to an end.
The problem with this is secondarily that women have a finite amount of eggs.
So what these corporations often do is target those who are younger or less informed and pay them too little in order to give up their eggs.
So it takes away the ability of these women in the future to have children the majority of the time and this is also a form of like exploiting women insofar as we don't think that everyone who is young or hasn't fully understood the risks or internalized whether they want to have children in the future or not.
We think that like these kinds of people ought also be protected.
For these reasons, proud to propose.