The motion for today's debate is that sex education ought be mandatory.
What we mean by this is that in every high school across the united states, once you enter ninth grade there ought be a mandatory class that everyone must attend that covers topics such as birth control, STD prevention, consent, and like general physical features of the human body, all of this labeled under sexual education.
Two main areas of clash: the first on individual health.
We think that when sex becomes less taboo from initial conversation with adults, teens feel more comfortable asking for advice later.
You basically need to broach the subject once in order for them to feel comfortable doing it again later.
We think that sex education does this in a few ways.
First, it establishes an easy adviser.
A teacher who is able to provide students with a safe place in which they say, look I am teaching this to you, if you have any questions feel free to ask.
But it also gives students the words that they need in order to talk to parents more freely later.
Because it's hard to walk up to your parent and just say, what is sex when you don't really know what other questions you have to ask.
But when you are given the tools by which to communicate with others, you can come in with more directed questions.
So, is double bagging a condom good or bad?
How do I prevent myself from getting pregnant?
What are some easy ways to make sure I'm not pregnant afterwards?
All of these things are currently things that children spend hours researching on the internet and get told absolute falsehoods.
Such as that douching with soda water will somehow kill all the sperm that has entered them.
These things can be actively harmful to people's physical health and we prefer a world in which they feel more comfortable having these discussions with adults.
We also think that these kinds of educational classes set the stage for more healthy relationships.
When you know the physical anatomy of your own body and that of your partner, you're less likely to first be like physically harmful to yourself.
So understanding what is natural and unnatural with regards to when bleeding happens or whether things are supposed to hurt or feel uncomfortable, we think that this allows you to keep yourself safe physically when you are engaging in sex.
We also think it's less easy to get pushed into unprotected sex when you're when this kind of class can dispel myths.
So when you hear that it's not actually painful for men to have blue balls, when you hear that they'll be fine if they ejaculate into a condom because the sensitivity difference isn't that much, and when you hear that there's no actual way in order to guarantee the prevention of pregnancy after someone has ejaculated within you, you're much less likely to allow yourself to be in a situation in which he says, but I really want to and give into it.
We also think that it's easier to begin discussions of consent when you have a strong barrier in class that starts it, right?
Because when a lot of the time young students don't even understand what the concept of consent is, and until they are given the words that you have to say yes in order for this to be consensual, they don't actually understand what is happening to them in the real world.
Our secondary of clash has to do with societal benefits.
A more educated younger generation means healthier choices.
So if I know when to use a condom and when to not, if I'm fully educated in the way in which I use one, and on my options for birth control, you're very likely to see sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy rates decrease across society.
It also does things like begin dispelling rape culture.
When you have classes in which people can talk about each other's bodies and talk about what meaningful consent is, you're much less likely to have situations in which men feel like women are theirs to possess and women feel like that's okay.
More than this though, a coeducational environment teaches students about the other genders body.
We think that a lot of the time bad policies with regard that regulate women's health come from a general squeamishness about sex and gender.
And we think that when you decrease that squeamishness, you can change politics in the long term.
So, understanding the stages through which a fetus goes through lets you recognize that abortion is probably not unjust if that fetus is not really a person yet.
We think that sex education helps in incredibly large ways and thus it ought be mandatory.
Proud to propose.