We want to talk about why laws that govern antisocial behavior and prohibit antisocial behavior are generally good.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why this is simply a good intermediate tool for law enforcement to use given that on the given that without it, there are basically just two extremes.
Because let's talk about the current system in which you get a dichotomy where either you have an unenforceable warning, which is basically just like, " hey, don't do this again.
If you do this again, you'll get in trouble, " or, you have to go to the other end of the extreme and say, " okay, we're going to charge you a lot of money right now, " or " we're going to arrest you and send you to jail, " things that are basically going to significantly impede the other person's life.
But there isn't something in the middle that impedes the individual's life, but not too much.
And we think that this is something that is actually incredibly necessary.
Because it's probably bad to be filling your jail cells and taking large amounts of people's money for light infractions, and we prefer a world in which this is avoided, given that it is both avoiding a cost on the part of the government but also avoiding a large cost on the part of the individual.
It really sucks to have to give away a lot of money that maybe you could not afford to give away, because you happened to do something that was disfavorable in society.
But on both sides the house, you're probably getting punished for it.
Like if you're not getting one of these antisocial infractions for being drunk, there are other legal ways that can get you arrested for being rowdy while drunk regardless of the existence of the act.
All we're doing is introducing a gradient.
Because yuval uses a lot of like very simple, very kind examples, where he says, " well, people are just trying to be themselves. "
But no one accepts accepts these kinds of orders in in in situations of like gentle misbehavior, right?
This is often about severely impeding other people's existence because of your actions, and we think that there has to be some way to make them stop without ruining their lives.
We also think that it's just much more likely to make them stop, because there is no punishment with that warning and it lets people think that the act is okay as long as they don't caught.
Direct prohibition against the action is good because now it's not a context-dependent thing.
You're criminalizing the action, not who is around you when you take that action, and we think this changes the way that people think.
Because a lot of the time it's a lot easier to lie to yourself and say, " well, I'm just going to do it more carefully this time, " or " I'm just not going to get caught, " or " I'll stay around a certain group of people, " even in even if in reality that's very unlikely to be true.
But when there's a direct prohibition about against the action, then you're worried about getting caught doing it regardless of who's around you.
Our second area of clash is about how it's most democratic because, as yuval says, a lot of the time these kinds of rules and these kind of acts are determined by the surrounding society.
But we actually think this is a really positive thing, right?
Like people deserve to have their majority will actualized within the spheres that they place themselves in given that these are presumably areas in which they spend a lot of time.
They're like presumably their life also has some sort of meaning with regards to what they have to put themselves through, we're not just worried about the person taking the action.
And so, we think that at the end of the day, you're not going to get one of these orders for drinking in an area full of drunks.
It's only going to occur if you're being a disturbance or if you're in an area where this doesn't usually occur.
And in the end, we don't think it's that much to ask that you ought that you shouldn't be behaving in a way that is contrary or disruptive to the people who are around you, given that both of you have an equal right to exist, and you probably will suffer less from not taking that action, given that those people don't actually have a choice about being subjected to it.
Our third area of clash branches off of this.
We really just want to talk about creating comfortable spaces, because you don't need to be drunk and rowdy, etcetera.
This is just something that is fun for you, but it can be actively harmful to others.
And so, we think that given that it is often harder for people to leave situations in which they are uncomfortable, but easier for you to make sure that that space is comfortable the whole time, defer to the latter.
For these reasons, allow these kinds of acts to be used.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.