No one chooses to have a mental illness.
In the words of the government speaker, this is the first reason that suicide cannot be considered a crime.
We tell you that in order for this to be a crime, it first has to be a decision on the part of the individual to do something that is bad for society or against the laws of society.
First, we tell you that there is no current law against committing suicide, only a law that states that committing harm for yourself or others ought be reported and a large amount of social stigma.
But second, we tell you that no that in that people are still able to choose to commit a crime, choose to rob a store, choose to commit burglary or or any other crime, even if they had external social pressures.
At the point that we acknowledge, however, that suicide cannot be controlled and is never chosen, but rather is forced by chemicals that are uncontrollable to anyone, within this person's brain, or by hormone fluctuations, it cannot be considered a crime.
The second reason that it cannot be considered crime is simply that it doesn't fit the definition.
We think that a crime must be perpetrated against someone else in an effort to cause harm.
The problem with suicide is that even though it causes harm, it is perpetrated only against oneself.
In the same way that it cannot be a crime if I overspend a month and cause myself economic hardship, we think it cannot be a crime if I turn a weapon against myself.
At the point, that it doesn't suit the definition we think that we've already won this round.
First, two bits of rebuttal, and then two main areas of clash.
We think that this opp this gov about how insurance will suddenly change their behavior is garbage.
Insurance does not change what they cover, because they like to save money, and unless there is significant legal pressure, it will not occur.
They did not explain why that legal pressure will come through making suicide a crime.
If anything, we think what this means is that it will be even more difficult to see who the victim is, at the point the victim is also the perpetrator.
Second, though, we think that there are already places in which you can unwillingly commit people who have perpetrated suicide when you when you recognize that they are not in full control of themselves.
All of the benefits that gov had just went away.
So, first main area of clash is that it further stigmatizes mental illness.
We think that when you criminalize suicide, you cause more of an association between mental illness and criminals, which makes it sound like it is a decision, because criminals choose to perpetrate their crimes.
If people who commit suicide are criminals, then they must also make this decision.
We think this is the way that society will hear this.
Moreover, we think that psychologists have gone to extreme ends to make society recognize that suicide is caused by an uncontrollable disease, and this undoes that work.
Because seeing suicide as a decision, seeing suicide as a crime against yourself, is the same thing that causes people to look down upon the victims of suicide and say, " well, you should have been the one to make better decisions, and this was your fault ".
It prevents actual help from being achieved.
Our second area of clash is why the rosy picture that is painted by government is simply fake.
They say that they wouldn't put these people in prison but in reality, that's exactly what is likely to happen.
There is no money usually for the government to create separate facilities and if there is, they're likely to mimic the asylums of the eighteen hundreds.
These areas were dirty, overcrowded, and had very little actual help for those suffering from mental illness.
They would often overdose their patients on purpose in order to create docile behavior, and there was no actual incentive to create better health, because they weren't getting paid by these patients' families and didn't actually care about their long-term health, only about running the facility.
We think this is, first, worse for the victim, because you're not going to receive good treatment, and a lack of control over your situation and being put into such poor circumstances is likely to cause you to cause you to go into more of a mental health spiral.
But it also takes control away from the family and rips a family member away from them in a time when they are most desperate to make contact.
We think that you ought allow these kind of relations to remain legally in the family's hands.
Do not criminalize suicide.
Proud to oppose.