The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish three strikes laws.
Three main areas of clash: first on why they are ineffective.
First, three strikes laws don't stop violent crimes because they don't target the real reasons for those crimes.
Most violent crimes aren't premeditated.
They're done under the influence of alcohol, they're done in the heat of the moment for emotional reasons.
And even if they are premeditated the reason that they are done are often like emotional and irrational, so we don't think that it's actually like that you actually tackle this when you say like: " because you've done this so often you have to be punished for longer. "
It also doesn't deter any other crime because those crimes also aren't done for the reasons for reasons that would be affected by this kind of deterrence.
Often times people do these crimes because they think that they won't get caught.
And it also doesn't solve the circumstances that pushes people into the crime in the first place.
IE being in great poverty, living in areas with with a lot of gangs where it seems like crime is your only choice, none of this is actually solved.
And the fact that we can just sign everything off to like: " hey, because we're so tough on crime people will be deterred " actually ends up costing a lot of people their functional lives and prevents individuals from ever having a shot at true rehabilitation.
Second under this for why it's ineffective is that it causes a lot of court clog.
People are less likely to take plea bargains when it doesn't reduce their sentences, which means you're having a lot more overloaded public defenders having to argue for real cases.
These drawn out it also means that there's always an incentive to draw out your trial on the third offense because you know they are going to get signed away for life if you don't win it.
So we actually think that people are going to be drawing out things for a lot longer than they usually would.
We also think that you actually end up with more violent people.
If you're arresting a two time felon it means they have nothing to lose on the third time.
So they're much more likely to be violent and resist arrest and cause police and civilian loss of life.
So we think as long as you're not providing people with an option they're always going to act in a the more desperate fashion and in a way that is more dangerous and more bad for the system.
Our second arguments about why this is unjust.
Recognize it punishes people for actions that they aren't responsible for.
Like a lot of people and a lot of felons are pushed to recidivism because they're stuck in poverty through a combination of not being able to get a job post prison, because of the fact that they are now forever poisoned on their resume, and because they were left out of society for so long that it was hard for them to maintain marketable skills.
They're being punished because the system failed with them.
We also think that this meets the the criteria for cruel and unusual punishment.
Three strike punishments are vastly disproportionate to the crime.
Like insofar as I can get like punished on the third strike with life in prison for like taking some marijuana, and just because this is my third drug offense, regardless of what the size of that is, I'm still going to get punished.
This is cruel and that it is disproportionate and this both violates the constitution but it's also just unjust in the more ethereal sense.
Like we think individuals probably don't deserve to be punished for more than is due to them and like it's bad when they are.
Our third argument is about how it contributes to the overcrowding of prisons.
It puts people away for longer than they should be and this clogs up prisons, making conditions very bad because the resources are spread so thin.
Because their side of the house doesn't actually increase the prison budget or build more prisons, which means we're just shoving more prisoners into the pre-existing systems.
This this means there's going to be more violence when prisoners are too close to each other and there aren't enough guards to regulate them, but it also allows gangs to run rampant and increases recidivism rates when conditions in prison are so bad that you can't actually expect to be rehabilitated in any way and like might have to turn to crime.
We also just think this is really expensive.
Prices rise per prisoner when prisoners are older.
So that person that you have on the three strikes offense starting like twenty five, by the time that they're like eighty it is infinitely more expensive to care for them because they now have elevated healthcare costs, but they're also just not a risk to society anymore so it's unclear why they're still there.
-is a major money sink and ought be used elsewhere.
For these reasons proud to propose.