The motion for today's debate is that we should ban child actors.
What we mean by this is that currently you have a lot of shows and movies that have child characters, and they actually hire people who are of that age, as young as toddlers.
A lot of the time those that go on to have long-term careers in movies are about five to ten years old when they first start.
They basically work full-time jobs on these shifts, and we would say that this would no longer be allowed.
Any movie industry or corporation that is found using child actors would be heavily fined.
If it's a repeated offense they'd be shut down, and you would you wouldn't be allowed to like prep your children in this way.
Two main areas of clash: first, on the child labor legal inconsistency that occurs when we allow for child actors.
Because in the united states we ban child labor, given that we recognize that kids should be spending time being kids: so, developing social relations with people their own age, going to school, having fun outside, like learning what their preferences are given that very soon, their childhood's going to end and they're going to be expected to do adult things and have adult responsibilities.
And it's actually we think on opposition and the burden on opposition to show us why there should be a different standard specifically for acting at all.
We think in the end, there's virtually no difference between hiring a child to work in a mine, hiring a child to work in a store, and hiring a child to act in a movie, except for the fact that the first two are illegal, and for some reason, the last one is legal.
We also think that it's actually worse in the movie industry, because kids are often forced to be on the scene and on set almost twenty-four seven when they're working for a certain show or a certain movie.
This isn't like most jobs, when you go to school and then after school, you go to work.
Rather, your life becomes your work.
They oftentimes have to put school on hold or get homeschooled because of their career.
They are interacting primarily with adults and other kids who are on set, oftentimes there are very few of them.
They don't get very much free time.
They have to go through rigorous acting lessons and acting prep, and they're also oftentimes yelled at and like emotionally manipulated to do their roles.
And we think that this is actually much more intensive and demanding than any other job and thus should be held to the same legal standard.
There are the same harmful impacts that would come with any kind of child labor.
Our second area of clash is about why it's bad for kids.
First, we want to talk about the lack of consent that exists.
Kids are too young to say " yes " to holding down a full-time job.
First, this is because they don't have a context with which to understand what they're saying yes to.
Right?
Like if I if I've lived like twenty, thirty, forty years, I've watched a lot of I've probably done a lot of research about a specific industry that I want I'm interested in, I've probably watched a lot of movies and documentaries.
Like, I have a much better understanding of what that time can looks like because I've actually lived that amount of time that I'm committing to.
Like, in general, you just have a much better way of contextualizing your experience in the course of the world and in your life.
But children have only been around for a really small amount of time, and like and what this means is that they can't actually contextualize what the next six months of their life might look like or what they're committing to in terms of publicity, because they've never seen someone else experience it in the first place.
We also think that they can't consent because it's a decision they often make because of their parents, right?
Like because they're too young to say yes, a lot of the time their parents are the ones who introduce the opportunity to them, or say this is an option, and so what this means is that they often feel like their parents have an expectation of them to go and do this thing that their parents really like.
Given that they usually really look up to and want to please their parents, it means that they're very likely to say yes to them, even if they don't actually want to do it.
So we think they can't consent meaningfully either.
Other than that, we've already told you why it's bad.
It stunts their education, it oftentimes traps them into a career when they know nothing else.
It's psychologically messy given that they're small children dealing with things like fame, working all the time, and they lose out on normal childhood experiences.
It's literally child abuse.
Ban child acting.