Throughout his speech drew picks on this imagined line, that he says is blurry, between abuse and spanking.
But we think that this line is very clear.
We think that whereas abuse is cyclical and overly harsh, and oftentimes leads to actual physical damage, that is, you know, involved with the tearing of skin, blood, bruising, we think that, meanwhile, spanking usually presents itself as almost completely not like with almost no long term physical marks, it's usually done specifically, when someone has done something wrong, and we think that it's often very easy, for trained people, to be able to tell when this line has been crossed or not.
There's always an amount of time that they allow to make sure that a situation is abuse, and we think that those who are just being spanked, for for for like educational or disciplinary purposes, do not meet that bar.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why we think a law like this is either unenforceable or has incredibly problematic enforcement.
We think first, unless the government is going to place a camera into the home of every single child bearing couple, then they have no way to actually tell when a child is being spanked.
Insofar as the government is not going to do so, do that, they probably shouldn't have a law that they cannot enforce.
First, it allows people to feel like the government is not very powerful, and oftentimes allows allows those people to feel comfortable overreaching in regards to other crimes.
But second, we just don't understand why we ought add money, and power, and bureaucracy, to a government already over covered with this, when you don't have to, to a law that is enforceable.
Second though, on problematic enforcement.
We think it is the case, that many people spank their children, but it is especially a practice tied to families of lower income, who don't have other means, or grew up in families where this was acceptable, or those who are less educated about other metrics, by which you can raise a child.
We think, what this does is specifically targets these groups of people, because insofar as this is who generally law enforcement agencies will assume are doing this, insofar as these are the groups of people who are actually using spanking more than others, meaning it targets a group that generally cannot afford it.
Insofar as usually, if you're like you like breaking the law, a fine is associated, or something else, meaning all you're doing is taking money from those who already cannot afford to lose it, but then but then also not expecting them.
But like, also not giving them a metric by which they can change their behavior, why would they learn to stop doing this?
More than this though, we also think it widens the responsibility of counselors and others to call these kind of behaviors in, even though it's not that harmful.
We think that law enforcement agents and counselors ought be focused on distinguishing actual abuse, rather than wasting their time and resources on low level spanking.
Second though, we think it interferes with the parental child relationship.
We think at the point, that parents have a right to raise their child as they see fit in almost every regard, there needs to be extensive warranting done on side government, as to why spanking is different.
If I can lock my child in a room, which is psychologically and emotionally damaging, why can I not spank them, given that the amount of actual pain is usually the same.
Our second main area of clash has to do with why we think this works, in ways that other stuff just doesn't.
We think, you don't want them to you don't want your child to necessarily choose, in every scenario, whether by the criteria that you gave them, their behavior might be considered ethical.
You just want them to stop doing it.
Spanking is the best at actually showing that something is unacceptable, regardless of your excuses for it, and we think, that if we're going to like actively be able to raise children, who are going to be respectful of their parents, and listen to their terms, you have to have some level of absolute deference.
More than this though, we think that a lot of this can be tied to intrinsic reasoning.
So, I spank you know because I need you to stop stealing your brother's food right now, and then I explain why it's bad, after you've already stopped committing the action.
It allows for short term control and then long term explanation.
This also works with things like grades, where children might not see the payoff for years to come, but with short term avoidance techniques, you can still have them delivering, before they recognize what is wrong.
For these reasons pro to oppose.