Don't ban school uniforms.
Sam asserts that uniforms aren't unique in their benefit from clothing limitations in other ways, but this is just untrue.
It prevents schools from being able to equalize school children when it comes to what they wear and forces schools to have to deal with the enforcement of those specific clothing regulation rules.
And I actually think that the thing that sam talks about with uniforms where he says that they tend to be sexist and unfair to women applies even more when it comes to dress codes more generally that just regulate individual aspects of clothing.
Because that's when you get rules that unfairly target woman's shoulders or the length of their skirt and that's also when you get assymmetry of enforcement with individual teachers deciding to just getting to decide what's appropriate instead of an over arching uniform or rule that says here's what is meant.
So even if there are problematic sexist ops aspects to both situations, we think it's always going to be easier to make a school dress code sexist than a school uniform sexist because that dress code allows individual rules to be made dependent on gender, whereas the school uniform has to be like some semblance of appropriate skirts or pants or shirts.
And especially now parents can often push for schools to change those uniforms.
If they feel like they are too restrictive or if they feel like they are too gendered, those are things we've seen in a lot of areas with school uniforms is that they've been a lot better about accommodating for women who don't want to constantly look feminine in the way that has been done in the past.
So we actually think we just do it better on our side of the house.
With that, three arguments, first on promoting learning.
We want children to focus on classes, not on what they're wearing, but more on what they're learning.
Clothing adds an entire new aspect to education in that everyone wants to keep up with trends and look good, and it takes on a lot of personal meaning and therefore a lot of energy for kids.
We want clothing to not even be a worry for them.
Sam is worried about the first amendment, but this would only be in cases of political speech which students can still exercise in the form of wristbands, signs, conversations, protests, literally anything else besides the shirt you're wearing.
And this might make sense if clothing was the only way for for students to access free speech but we've shown you it's not.
Moreover as sam mentioned, schools aren't obligated to give the same protections as common society is.
This is why schools can search your lockers and things like that.
So insofar as that is true, we just don't think he has any offense on freedom of speech.
Sam says that kids won't self actualize.
We think this is also just untrue.
They can just wear the things they want after school if that's important, but if anything we think this has allowed them to show their creativity in other ways while they are in school rather than relying on clothing that can be bought with money.
Our second argument is about why it's good for social and economic hierarchy.
There isn't anything archaic about these kinds of rules.
As the income gap in the united states ever widens, it is even more important to prevent these class differences from seeping into school environments where kids should not be bothered by this.
Schools will often find kids aligning themselves along class lines and one of the ways in which this happens is via the type of clothing that someone wears.
It instantly signals what that person can or can't afford, and it can be used as a basis for bullying or exclusions.
And we actually just think this outweighs all of sam's arguments about buying cheap pants at goodwill because if your kid is getting bullied for those cheap pants we think that's bad.
Whereas if a parent can't afford a new uniform we think that the ability to keep two pairs and just make sure your kid takes really good care of that is something that a parent could exercise infinitely more control over.
So that deals with that argument.
Our third argument is about why it's cheaper.
When parents have to buy clothing for kids they have to buy a lot more than if they just pay for two sets of uniforms that get cycled through.
Even if they're shopping sales or at thrift shops, it's still amounts that add up over time significantly more than just uniforms, especially given that a lot of the time children want to look good and often resent the idea that they might not be able to afford that process.
Proud to oppose.