The motion for today's debate is that we should ban cosmetic surgery.
We think that, generally bans are conducted for two reasons, which is why our two areas of clash are: harms to the individual, and harms to society.
Because, we think that, if we show you that there is enough reason to paternalize either individuals or society, because the harms are just too large to internalize, and too large to justify from short term gains, then we win the round.
Our first area of clash are about harms to the individual.
We think that cosmetic surgery is usually used to obtain a standard of beauty, but the standard is ever changing and ever rising, which means that every time that I go and get cosmetic surgery, I will always leave with a sense of inadequacy, that I cannot deal with.
But more than this, we think that it is often used to patch over larger issues, such as anxiety, or depression, or any other like kinds of like, mental or emotional problems.
But there are two problems with it.
So we think first that money is a trade off: the money that I spend on cosmetic surgery is money I do not spend on going to therapy, or actually dealing with my problems in a more effective manner.
But secondly, that surgery allows for a temporary rust pipe, that then plunges you back into whatever problem you were dealing with.
If I'm struggling with major anxiety, because of the way that I look, or major depression, and feel like this is something that can help me deal with that, I'm going to feel better for all of the week, or all of the month, until I realize that these problems are emotional, and they all just keep coming back.
What this does is plunges people into addictive cycles, that they cannot get out of.
Because I do feel a little bit better, I go back and get more surgery, because I want to catch that feeling of being better, again.
In the very least though, if you don't buy any of that, we think that you go to get cosmetic surgery, because you're unhappy with something, and not dealing with it entrenches instant gratification, that always causes you to go and pursuit unhealthy habits, rather than healthy ones.
For instance, if I am overweight for a reason not due to, like, your thyroid or other unchangeable conditions, but just because I am overweight, we think that dealing with it through liposuction, rather than going out, and learning to live on a healthy diet, learning to exercise regularly, is bad, because in the end, that liposuction is going to leave you with a long term scar, and a long term lack of stomach, that can come back with bad conditions later.
But also, it means that you're still unhealthy, you're still following bad habits that cause things like diabetes, or other conditions.
Second though, let's talk about harms to society.
Because, we think there's a barrier to entry, obviously due to cost with plastic surgery.
At the point that only some people can afford it, but everyone are affected by the propagated stereotypes, we think that you ought protect those people who cannot afford it, rather than deferring to the rights of the few to pay for it in the first place.
We think that in the end, plastic surgery sends the message that you, individually, are not enough.
We think this applies on two main fronts: first, broadly, there are certain characteristics that are found to be generally more attractive than others.
For women, a lot of the time the target of the cosmetic surgery advertisement, this might be the size of your breasts, the with of your hips, the size of your eyes, the curve of your nose.
We think at the point that, these are things that are advertised on billboards, at the point that large celebrities, that serve as role models to young children, all participate in this, all that young girls and young boys are getting is the message that, you, as you are born, is not enough.
The issue is though that, cosmetic surgery does not change your genetics.
The things that people are embodying are physically impossible in the natural real world.
What this means is that, we are actively advertising to young children a standard they can only achieve through millions of dollars spent.
But second, we think there's a more specific message, at the point that specific features are targeted as good or bad.
We think that, when asian children are inundated that a double lead is the only thing that is beautiful, this leads to a surge in surgeries for those who are of asian descent to change their eye shape.
It sends the message that, your racial features, features that are unchangeable, and also central to your identity, are bad, and we think this ought be discouraged.
For these reasons, proud to propose.