The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize prostitution.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on why it's why it is philosophically just for people to be able to be a prostitute and why this is a viable like path of work.
So first we tell you that prostitution is indistinguishable from any other career path.
Every job sells a part of our body in order to make money.
Op has to to prove why a prostitute's vagina is so different from the backs of construction workers or the brains of computer scientists.
Recognizing that other physical based jobs have much higher risks and yet somehow aren't regulated because recognize with prostitution as long as the male as the other person is wearing a condom, as long as you get regular STD checks, the risks are relatively minimal as long as you are being safe.
However, with jobs like construction, mining, any of these other physical labor jobs, it is almost guaranteed that you will have debilitating problems in the future such as like chronic back aches and back problems, like messing up your lungs very badly so that in the future you have higher risk for cancer.
We don't understand why we do not regulate those kinds of physical tasks but prostitution does.
Moreover we'd say that people own their bodies and that they should be able to sell them without regulation because if I can choose to go and be a ballerina, destroy my ankles and my knees, skip going to college and thus never be able to get a competent job in the future, I think it is also fair to say that I should be able to choose to use my body in the way of a prostitute as well insofar as I've probably had sex before, I know what the risks are.
It is the same as any other job.
We tell you it's arbitrary that the government restricts women's bodies, that it is based in a patriarchal society that allows men to make those decisions for women.
The only reason that we maintain these structures is because men still own the government and are able to like put these ideas into women's heads as well.
Decreasing the stigma around prostitution also decreases the stigma around women's bodies and their ownership of them in general.
More than this though, we tell you that the government isn't meant to restrict rights rather to protect them and the only time at which it would be justified to restrict them would be if there were meaningful third party harms or if the harm to yourself was so large that paternalism would be justified.
We told you why the harms for prostitution are no higher than any other physical menial job and if and and are actually oftentimes lower.
More than this, there are no third party harms insofar as the decisions we make with our bodies and who we have sex with impact only ourselves and our partner, as long as both a consensual.
It's unclear who the third party is.
At the point that we accept everything above, you already recognize why prostitution ought be legalized if only to remain philosophically consistent with how we regulate jobs already.
Our second area of clash has to do with regulate ability and safety.
Because a lot of people dislike prostitution because of the associated harms of prostitution, such as the idea that it is inherently seedy and associated with drugs or human trafficking but recognize that these problems go away with legalization because you can do things like mandate licenses that include SCT testing, then health codes, and background checks for consumers.
More than this though, it gives prostitutes legal recourse when pursuing justice.
Doesn't mean acknowledging that you broke the law.
In the status quo if I'm a prostitute who has been wronged by a pimp, who's being underpaid or abused, I have to go and first tell the courts that I am guilty of a crime before I can seek recourse.
We think it is absolutely necessary to allow women to be able to have a safe workplace regardless of what their current job is.
We also think that once you make things like human human trafficking less profitable because you can have woman consenting to it easily available for relatively cheap prices, it means you're no longer to having you're no longer having the same kind of associated illegal markets.
For these reasons, proud to propose.