The motion for today's debate is that we should privatize the water supply.
What we mean by this is that rather than the government having de facto control over all water and distributing it a among individual people, we would have individual private corporations own and sell the majority of individual water supplies.
Three main areas of clash first, on liability.
We think it is generally just easier to class action sue a corporation than a government.
Insofar as it is very difficult to make the government expend money where as the government can make a corporation spend money on safety or any other thing that might be found that is doing wrong in a court of law.
The reason it is so difficult to make the government take action is because the government has even more infinite access to lawyers than even the biggest corporation and there's an incentive for judges not to convict the very employer that keeps them as judges in any court signed of court.
Basically it would be like me going into a police station to complain about a police officer.
We see how well that works given that the very system is created to protect those individuals that have been causing the problem in the first place.
Winning a really good example of where this was especially would've where it especially would've helped to have a privatize water supply is in flint michigan where even the most obvious sources of information on the water supply being damaged and spoiled show that there are show that but even with like the most it like graphic images of the water supply being bad were not enough for the government to take action to fix it.
Like flint michigan still does not have access to safe water.
However had this been occurring with a corporation, then multiple non profits would have lent the money to the individuals in flint michigan and they would have sued the corporation together and it would mean that not only would the water supply be fixed, but they would also likely receive compensation for past harms that could never occur with the government.
Insofar as suits against the government only require fixing everything in the future but do not require recompense for victims of past actions.
I think that oftentimes compensation is actually very important given that if I drink the water in flint michigan it is overwhelmingly probable that I will get very sick and that the money that is needed to be spent on my treatment will not be given back to me in any meaningful manner.
So we think that actually in terms of malpractice, it is very likely that it is preferable to have privatized water.
We also think that it's still possible for the government to regulate the water supply to regulate the prices of water right.
Like they can make sure that there's a max cost that cannot be exceeded in order for there to be even distribution across individuals regardless of race and regardless of of economic capability.
But we also think that it's just very likely that corporations don't want to overlook specific populations and have to keep in mind what those people can afford insofar as there are only so many rich people and they only demand so much water and in order to get rid of more water they will have to change prices across lands.
Our second independent point is about depoliticizing water because the government tends to have to bend to the will of the majority in that local district.
So if you're in a very in a very rich district that has a relatively small poor population it is much more likely that your water will be defluoridated because the rich people there care more about the taste of their water and know that they can afford to pay for fluoride toothpaste and so they are petty enough to take away that fluoride from everyone even though it's actually very important for individuals who don't have access or don't have the money for proper teeth care in terms of hospital bills and in terms of buying the right kind of toothpaste, to have access to fluoridated water and so we think that the private sector will actually solve for this much more insofar as it is it is likely that it would offer both options to the rich verses the non rich and so it would actually be much more likely that individuals could choose whatever they want.
Our third independent point is about competition leading to higher quality.
We think that corporations will always treat reservoirs and other water sources better than the government because they need people to buy into it and because they just have more money than the government.
We also think that when you force a bidding process for certain reservoirs, it's much more likely that they're going to be well maintained.
For this reasons proud to propose.