The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize cannabis, cannabis being marijuana.
Three main areas of clash: first on people's rights.
Recognize that marijuana is banned massively for racist and elitist reasons to do with south american drug wars and the stigma on the individuals who happen to use mind altering substances.
But recognize that there's not actually like a right for the government to ban in this situation.
I think there are generally two standards which we use to recognize whether a government can ban something.
The reason these standards are necessary is because we strive to live in as democratic of a nation as possible, IE a country in which individual people have as many rights as possible.
But we also recognize that rights aren't absolute insofar as the government has to do and limit some rights in order to do things like retain order, fulfill obligations to its citizens, etcetera etcetera.
But these two standards tend to be either to show that there is like meaningful harm to yourself and others or to show that there's a pertinent government interest.
I think the problem becomes that there isn't actually like a harm to marijuana use.
Especially in comparison to things like alcohol or cigarettes which have been proven to be a lot more harmful but somehow escaped any kind of real government regulation, aside from age restrictions that would apply to marijuana as well.
Recognize that there isn't any physical harm.
At most, very long term use leads to some changes in the aggression neurotransmitters.
But unlike alcohol and unlike tobacco there aren't any associated cancers, there's no long term addiction that is like associated.
And as such we think that, like especially to the comparison to the like the standard that society has already set, there's no feasible way in which we can ban in a rightful manner.
But more than this, I think there's no government like pertinent government interest in a ban either.
If anything, we think that there's an economic interest in not banning this insofar as like, as I will get into later, this has massive economic benefits.
Our second area of clash is about exploiting the pragmatic good.
The problem with bans is that they often times limit what we can do with the item that is banned in the meantime.
This means that even though we have a lot of preliminary research that is incredibly promising in the field of marijuana, it's really difficult for us to get any kind of really established research that would let us start prescribing it in a meaningful manner to as many people as might need it.
However we do know that it's incredibly helpful.
We've observed that it can be good for helping people with insomnia, seizures, pain management, like this is something that could literally lift thousands and thousands of suffering individual out of pain.
And I think that that's like in and of itself an impact that is incredibly important.
But second under this, I think that clearing out prisons of individuals who are there for light drug offenses is also really important.
There are too many people in jail for light drug offenses.
Often underneath a racist enforcement insofar as it is infinitely more likely for a person of color who was caught with drugs to get arrested than a white person who gets caught caught with drugs to get arrested.
This is vastly due to our perception of white men in white young women as people who are just having fun and experimenting and have only gotten off the track for a little bit, while people of color tend to be more aggressive and tend to have gotten themselves into their own situations, as poor white people's world view.
And so we actually think the fact that it's like partly discriminatory is bad.
But on like a purely pragmatic level, we think that it leads to like more inhumane prisons, insofar as they're more crowded, and we think that it's like preferable for individuals to not be in prison, slowly like unlearning how to be citizen of society, but rather being able to re-integrate.
Like be with their family, all of that.
Our third area of clash is about economic benefits.
I think like the start of a new market is really important here.
Because soon after marijuana legalization, we saw states like colorado like increase in economic power like many many times over.
So we think that insofar as it like brings new jobs and it can be heavily taxed, this is really good economically as well.
For these reasons proud to propose.