Don't ban cosmetic surgery.
First on this thing where danny worries about creating an expectation, I think first this is just something that's really unlikely to happen, right?
Like expectations for what your body look like in society happen independently of cosmetic surgery because there are individuals who can alter their body in other ways, who might be born in a certain way.
Like models are always looked for like we prioritize these anorexic body types things like that and all of these expectations get laid without even touching a knife or touching cosmetic surgery, right?
So the idea that it is cosmetic surgery that creates an expectation is incredibly misguided.
Like maybe it affirms that expectation, but we don't think that's meaningfully harmful either because recognize that the amount of people who are willing to pay for cosmetic surgery tends to be individuals who have extreme issues with their current body that isn't going to go away, right?
There people who are willing to spend that money even though it is so much.
So that calculus has to be really skewed for them to one side in order for them to be willing to do that.
Moreover, there are just massive parts of the population that can't afford cosmetic surgery at all, so it's just not enough people who can do it in order for it to create any kind of norms or expectations.
So immediately we think that argument is gone.
So the real question of the round is just like if someone has the means and the desire do we think they should be able to have cosmetic surgery and we think they should and for that there are two main arguments: first, on why it's not justified to ban.
Recognize that cosmetic surgery doesn't hurt the people who is who are doing it and it doesn't have any overflow harms, right?
What we mean by this is that we we see that individuals who opt for cosmetic surgery are unlikely to be harmed by it the majority of the time and we don't think that the government has the right to ban these things unless they can show that paternalism is justified.
Like we live in a country that values protecting individual freedom even when they think that the decision that that person is making might be bad for themselves or for society.
This is because we recognize that the government can't put themselves into other people's shoes effectively.
There are just too many individuals and too many different ways of prioritizing pleasures in life.
We have to let people do the weighing for themselves.
Things that someone else might see as not worth it can be worth it for the person next to them because they are two different people with different value systems.
If the government bans cosmetic surgery, that's massive government overstep.
It's the government taking it upon itself to mold social norms as they see desirable and unfairly interfere with people's lives.
It's the person's body and the and the government shouldn't be interfering with that.
It's not as if cosmetic surgery is being forced on anyone.
It is a decision that people make independently and obviously if someone was forced into cosmetic surgery by another person, that's something that both sides of the debate think is bad, right?
Like that's something that we also look down upon.
We also just think that the person can make the money calculus themselves.
Danny spends awhile talking about how this is so expensive and that money is better spent elsewhere but we just don't think he gets to assert that as something that is factually accurate for everybody.
Like if you're someone who isn't into other things like cosmetic surgery is all you want and that's all you would be spending this money on, then that's reasonable, right?
Like that's your personal preference and we should support that decision.
Our second argument is about allowing people to be happy.
Cosmetic surgery can be really beneficial in helping someone feel better about themselves or fixing something they dislike and even if it's the case that they should love themselves, it's not the case that people always do and we think that those people's desires are valid.
Like by the time you're an adult and are making decisions about cosmetic surgery, it's unlikely you're magically going to turn around and love those features that you want to change.
So we think that you might as well be allowed to do what you want.
Proud to oppose.