The motion for today's debate is that we should ban the sale of violent video games for minors.
What we mean by this is that if a person is under eighteen, they would have to bring a parent to a store in order to purchase a video game or if you're buying it online, you'd have to go through an account that would have your age as eighteen or older, we in the same way that there's like committees that rate movies as rated r or PG thirteen or NC seventeen, this would be a similar committee that basically creates a standard for when a video game is too violent for general consumption.
Two main areas of clash: the first on parental rights.
We think it's generally accepted that parents should have a say in the media that their children consume and the way that they develop.
This is why we require parental permission for r rated movies, for most social media websites, schools require permissions to take students to movies or on field trips, and the state doesn't actually regulate a line for what parents control in the home.
Like at the point that parents are allowed to give home births, make sure their child doesn't have a social security number, and then raise them on farms, we think this is a far smaller example that is protected by the state.
So, what we're talking about here is the largest violation of parental autonomy, because it takes away that check that parents are given on children's media consumption.
It's basically saying that: look, we don't care what your preferences are or what kind of political views you hold, your child can just go into a store and buy whatever you want they want and play it behind your back.
The problem with this is that violence is especially important because of how ideological it tends to be.
Parents who are pacifists or disagree with the portrayal of certain political groups in these games, such as a lot of parents really dislike how the way that russians are always vilified in video games and prefer their children not to play with that, should not have to tolerate this in their home and under their roof.
They should be able to say: look, maybe you can play that wherever I can't control you, but you could should not be able to buy it and bring it inside.
We also think that if your child struggles with violence outside of the home, so like kids who are especially violent in school and wind up in detention, etcetera, we think that parents have a right to discipline them as they see fit and not have to expose them to more violent content when these children already have a problem.
Our second area of clash has to do with long-term problems of desensitization, because we think that when you are exposed to a lot of violence in your video games, you begin to see it as normal because you're observing this violence regularly.
So, now, when you observe it in your everyday life, you're much more likely to not feel afraid of it, you're much less likely to feel like this is out of the ordinary, and you're much less likely to interfere.
We think this is incredibly important because a lot of the time, the reason that we can stop violence violence from occurring in groups or bullying in schools is because other children are willing to not tolerate that behavior and step in.
But when you're so used to violence that you no longer find it to be surprising or scary, we don't think that you're going to be as willing to step in.
We also think that desensitization also makes it easier for you to be more violent with others because when you watch people get hurt over and over and over on screen, it takes away the human part and the empathy that you would feel otherwise.
So, someone who's not used to inflicting pain on others actively feels pain themselves when they hurt someone else because of like that human part of us that emphasizes.
But if you're used to inflicting that violence, even through a screen to humanoid shapes, you take away the human part of the person that you are hurting, and you can imagine everyone is that character on the screen.
So we think that it actually makes you personally much more violent and like we prefer our children cannot grow up that way.
We also think the youth with which you learn this is very important because whereas adults already have schemas by which they live their lives in the real world, children don't yet, and when they're still forming, it's very important to make sure they form correctly.
So, things like the bobo doll experiment didn't have very much affect on adults because even when adults see another adult hitting the doll, they already have preexisting conditions that they think are true, so they already are disgusted because of their background.
But children, rather, tend to repeat what that adult is doing if they're behaving violently because they model those adults and see them as role models.
So do the ethical thing: don't let children buy violent video games.