Don't ban cosmetic surgery.
First I think that the problem is one of first and foremost.
Insofar as side government isn't touching makeup, chicken cutlets, eye contact, eye color changers, so on so forth, we think that they are keeping the same impacts as we have on both sides of the house.
The question just becomes do we think that individuals who are structurally unhappy with the part of their body ought be able to permanently change it in a way that they don't have to pay attention to it in the rest of their lives or should they be forced to live with it and just be manually changing it.
So a push-up bra every day lick makeup to cover up blemishes you don't like so on so forth.
Three main areas of clash, first on preference.
I think we ought remember that people should be as free as possible.
Insofar as this first does things like prevent tyranny like if we were just to be capable of regulating every aspect of people's lives then there would never be an incentive to prevent government overreach and we would just eventually end up with the world of drones all working for a cumulative societal good but never actually feeling happy themselves.
But also because we think that people know their own context best, that is even if large bodies and institutions can generalize impacts and emotions across populations, they can never assume what one person wants and desires at the time.
But we think that is valuable.
We think it becomes the job to show up gov to show the bright line between things like regular waist training and push-up bras and things like cosmetic surgery insofar as they still propagate the same norm.
Given that they do we don't think you ought be limiting freedom.
We also just think they do things like create black markets which are always going to be even less safe and less capable of regulations.
So in the status quo when you go in for breast implants, a doctor will tell you how big you can go without it being uncomfortable for you.
So like physical back pain and like like physical problems with long term recovery.
But when you have a black market those kinds of safety walls are going to be infinitely less available and infinitely less used.
So we think that the danger that comes to an individual also through a hygiene perspective like the use of dirty materials etcetera is much higher.
We also just think the problem on their side of the house is that like if the person cares enough they'll find a way to do it, even if it's not the black market like things like waist trainers can have awful affects to your health by like shifting your bones around in a way that like a regular tummy tuck never would.
Second though we want to talk about research benefits because recognize that because there is more money in cosmetic surgery so rich people will pay more money so they can look prettier then a lot of the time it actually the discoveries made actually flow over to the areas that have less money.
So when we want to talk about the burn victims and the mastectomies due to cancer so on so forth the reason we can deal so effectively with them is because we've spent time researching in the private cosmetic sector.
So like finding out how to blend like skin grafts best all of these things happen like in in cosmetics.
Our third area of clash is about self actualization.
I think that that drew confuses the like cyclic nature.
Like we agree that reinforcing stereotypes is generally bad, but it is not the case that you cannot change the over arching like generalized like stereotype in society and then that would necessarily change or eliminate the need for the like action that comes as a result of that.
So we essentially think that getting excessive cosmetic surgery is a response to a patriarchal system.
So sure it also works to reaffirm it, but we think that if you were to change the over arching system, people would stop feeling the need to do this and we think that that's something the government should always focus on more than just changing the symptoms.
First because it's more effective, but second because we think that if the government can't promise a retraction of the full system, people should be able to operate within it as they please.
Proud to oppose.