Don't ban child actors.
I think as like a brief overview when tim tells us that this does things like take kids out of classes so on so forth we think those are easily regulatable under current child labor laws.
So current child labor laws require people to stand for a number of hours like so on so forth and we think that like as such it's also possible to insert under that like a requirement for kids to attend school for a certain number of hours, like have a certain GPA like whatever you want in terms of those regulations we think we'd be happy to abide by.
But our stance is essentially that we ought not be over archingly banning child acting as like the government taking this action.
Two main areas of clash, first on rights.
Recognize that this is incredibly paternalizing to children because sure maybe five year olds can't consent and we agree with that, but it is really rare that a child actor's a five year old.
We think the usual range at which we use child actors is between like the ten to fifteen to like like basically like preteens to like teens teens kind of age.
Just because those are usually main characters, they're usually a lot easier to predict like babies don't really need to act they just need to look cute and you can just fill anyone for that also wouldn't really be detracting from a baby's life.
But we think that like ten, twelve, and fifteen year old are pretty good at knowing their preferences by this time.
They've like existed for a bit, they've explored but they like a little bit more and even though they probably shouldn't be let out into the world to do whatever they want, they certainly can decide whether or not they want to do something like act and appear on the screen.
We agree oftentimes parents can be really problematic when it comes to this?
But we think that if you?
're the type of parent who's going to be willing to push your child against their will into acting, then you would also push them in against their will into any kind of extra curricular that would be available if you were to ban acting.
So unless they're advocating for banning every single extracurricular because we're afraid of a child being pressured into it, then we're not sure how they can ever take this stance.
We also just think that like this is like a minority of cases where parents are being this problematic, so you probably shouldn't ban it for everybody else just because sometimes it's not consensual.
I also just think that kids should have this option, it's just also be extra protected, so doing things like mandating the number of work hours and conditions.
Our second argument is about limiting good art.
Recognize that you prevent massive classes of media out when you ban child actors.
Everything that depicts families, schools, growth, all of these things that we think are really commonly seen in pop culture and media suddenly become inaccessible because you can no longer portray the proper demographics within them.
So we're basically limiting ourselves to like the office and community and like like harry potter couldn't exist on their side of the house right like it would have to be about people considerably older for it to work and we think that's really problematic.
Art imitates life and kids are part of that, and we think that kids ought be able to enjoy art to the same levels that adults do and probably even more insofar as they are often more impressionable and more creative.
This matters, like art matters to society.
It helps us connect to one another and like through it and we think that insofar as kids consume media as well, they should be able to identify with the components within that media as well.
And we think that what happens on their side of the house is that like the child who was bullied but like finds inspiration in the superhero movie where the superman helps a kid just like them never gets that experience because that never happened.
They're forgetting how much of an impact the media can play an individual and how important it is to see yourself represented in those situations.
Proud to oppose.