Don't ban cosmetic surgery.
Recognize that we can do things like regulate cosmetic surgery.
Right like we can add age restrictions for how old you have to be before you access it.
We can require parental permission if you're below that age but I think the important question here is that gov has to defend a world in which there is absolutely no cosmetic surgery or as we'll tell you later, really problematic black market cosmetic surgery that is infinitely worse than the current thing.
While we just have to show you that individuals should have access to cosmetic surgery in some kind of form even if it is limited.
Three main arguments: first on rights.
Recognize that people can consent to this kind of situation.
First and foremost harm during cosmetic surgery is absurdly unlikely depending on the kind of surgery.
So you'll have your doctor before you go under the knife be like " hey here are the potential issues that might come up, here's the probability of them coming up " and you as an individual gets to decide whether that is something that is worth it to you.
Recognize that other people cannot contextualize how much something like cosmetic surgery might mean to an individual.
So even if we might say for ourself " well that risk isn't worth it ", all that means is that we don't dislike ourselves enough to want that risk to be worth it.
We think that individuals who really want cosmetic surgery should be able to make that calculus themselves especially since the likelihood of harm is really low and especially not as high often as other kinds of surgeries that are more necessary so but were less like similarly unnecessarily but more accepted in society.
So like wisdom teeth removal or braces that are oftentimes really unnecessary for the majority of individuals but often still get conducted on the individuals who don't need it and have massive potential for harms like literal nerve damage that prevents you from opening your mouth ever again but somehow we accept that in society and this is equally similar to that.
I think also the problem is that even if it's harmful to you, they have to show that it's so harmful to yourself or others that it is worth a ban.
At the point that we refuse to ban cigarettes which can literally cause cancer both in yourself and innocent bystanders who happen to inhale your smoke, we think that necessarily this is not meeting that kind of bar.
That bar is higher.
We also think that we recognize that people can choose that harm on to themselves because they consider it to be worth it.
So we think that also always ought matter more than some abstract politician removed from individuals personal stories deciding on this kind of policy.
Our second argument is about the black market.
Recognize that when you ban something you make it unregulatable because you can't acknowledge that exists during that time.
This makes it more dangerous because you can't regulate the quality.
In the status quo, cosmetic surgeons have to get licensed.
They have to show that they are they have to like on a bi-yearly basis or something similar come back and re-license themselves and they also are are are accountable to individual consumer reviews.
So if I had a really bad experience with that surgeon, I can do things like tell other people about it because in the status quo it's legal and then that surgeon gets put out of business.
But when you have a black market, you can't acknowledge that those kinds of things exist and you have less services competing itself competing with each other for being a good service.
So what happens now is that you have younger children going out and getting cosmetic surgery.
Recognize that oftentimes parents will want their kids to perform in beauty pageants or there are like racial stereotypes that individuals want to avoid like surgeries.
So parents will actually take their kids to these kinds of shady areas even if they don't go themselves.
But also now you actually get the kind of risks that sam keeps talking about regarding how likely you are to get hurt afterwards or like experience bad side effects.
Our third argument is about why it's not unique.
Government has to show how this is different from doing things like wearing make up or having chicken cutlets in your bra or using waste trainers.
All they're doing is forcing people through repetitive processes when they could get that surgically done.
So if I'm someone who's going for breast implants, likely as not I'm someone who's already putting in like bra padding on a daily basis.
So insofar as the cultural harms that sam talks about exist on both sides of the house.
The question is just how comfortably can women access the solution?
We think that is what matters most in this round.
Proud to oppose.