The motion for today's debate is that we should ban school uniforms.
Three main areas of clash, first on allowing children to self identify.
Clothing is an important part of an individual self identity because it allows individuals to project to the rest of the world who they are and what they want to be perceived about them.
The problem with uniforms is that when every single individual looks the same there's no way for those who want to stand out to stand out, or those who want to be like to blend in particularly as compared to others to identify with any specific group.
Everybody looks exactly the same.
It forces individuals into uniformity.
It's especially important for children who are still figuring out who they are and have a like large amount of their rights already restricted, especially in the school system.
Like they're not allowed to say certain things, they're not allowed to protest in certain ways, obscenities are banned.
Like things that we see is fundamental to our right to free speech and our right to expression is always barred from children.
So we think that the ways in which they can express themselves ought be protected and shouldn't be regulated by things like uniforms.
So that's actually really important.
But also, recognize that giving kids as much freedom as possible allows them to learn how they relate to the world.
Like kids already get screwed in terms of every other kind of right.
They don't have a freedom of mobility, they don't get to vote, and we we don't think that this should be additional limitation insofar as it is unnecessary and doesn't serve any kind of pragmatic purpose.
Our second area of clash is about sexist enforcement.
Recognize that school uniforms, the majority of the time, require girls to wear skirts.
The problem for anyone who doesn't feel comfortable with girly clothing is that like now they are like perpetually being forced into this kind of cage and into this kind of identity.
Whether it's because you're a tomboy or because you're trans, uniforms force you to be in be and present yourself in a certain way and in a certain aesthetic that isn't similarly enforced onto men.
Like even if we had uniforms that like allowed pants for women, they would always be tighter and like the like the tops would always be different.
And like and we think the problem there is that like this fundamentally disadvantages women.
Because recognize that even for boys who might care about how they dress, this is always a less restrictive.
Like at least like a lot of the time primary to high school boys usually care less anyway, but also their their clothing is just a lot less specific.
It's like less likely to be tight things like that.
So we actually think that it's really important that these kinds of things don't get enforced because it's always in a lot of ways sexist.
Our third area of clash is about the cost of uniforms.
Recognize that a lot of the schools that do this are in much richer areas because it's seen as this like preppy thing to do or like it's like seen as classy or whatever.
And so like inner city schools don't care about uniforms.
They don't have the resources to care about them, they don't have the energy to care about them.
So it's usually schools in like richer areas with a higher income population.
So these uniforms tend to be costly and required to be bought over and over as the child grows.
Meanwhile for poorer students when uniforms aren't required clothing can be bought back from thrift stores for very cheap, clothing can be baggy, that kids grow into, while with uniform you get in trouble for poor fit.
And so we like prefer parents to be able to choose what to buy, not be forced to budget for uniforms.
Especially since schools with uniforms tend to be more expensive, which gets reflected in that uniform costs.
And children who maybe can't afford as many or can't wash them as often are going are like much more likely to get picked on, because when everybody looks the same you stick out a lot more even if you look a little bit different.
We think that's actually quite important.
Proud to propose.