The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize cell phone use while driving.
I think the important thing to remember here is that we can still promote not using cell phones while driving and explain why this is a very bad idea or something that ought be avoided, like create massive education campaigns.
I think on both sides of the house we can agree that we will massively decrease the number of people who do it.
The question is whether or not a ban is justified and whether it should be illegal in all situations.
Because I think it's the case that people respond fairly well to like rational reasoning and explanations about their own safety.
Oftentimes better than they do to just a blanket ban or like a legal rationale.
With that, two main areas of clash: first on the ineffectivity of bans.
I think factually it is important to establish that studies have shown that since instituting the ban the amount of texting related accidents haven't actually decreased.
This is because people aren't discouraged from actions by bans.
Especially when those bans often only result in light fines, such as in the situation with cell phone use while driving.
They just assume that there they'll be the ones who won't get caught.
You need to impress the real life harms on individuals in order to have the make any kind of change.
This is why oftentimes it doesn't work to just tell someone abstinence only sex education, rather you have to actually explain: " look, STD's are a problem.
Look, like pregnancy is a problem. "
And then have them weigh the costs against that rather than just being like abstinence is the only way.
And I think that that's like actually very important comparison.
Because I think in the same way that we have to explain to people the rationale for why they should wait for sex or use protected sex, the same goes for cell phones while driving.
It's not enough to just say it is banned, rather you have to explain it is incredibly unsafe, like it's going to do something that is bad for you, it can harm others.
We think that it creates a false sense of solvency when you say that it's like banned and therefore the problem is solve.
You assume that it is dealt with so you stop funding future solutions.
Moreover, cops lose the incentive to educate and publicize how bad of an idea texting while driving is, because now they make money off of arresting and stopping people for texting.
They search for the opportunities and prioritize them making money off of these stops over people being safe.
And I think of this kind of flip is actually really problematic, insofar as these like people who are supposed to be most on the side of security now have an economic incentive to let people get like to let people be ignorant so that they'll get in more trouble.
Our second area of clash is just about showing you that in certain instances it's really important that texting while driving be something that is legal.
I think a lot of the time there are like instances of texting while driving that are perfectly safe as long as you're not doing it on a highway, you're driving underneath a certain speed limit, if you're at a like light stop, all of these are situations in which no one is actually harmed by you texting, and it is really unlikely that you're going to cause an accident.
I think the issue is when people do this during like very high speed areas, or on like bridges, or like they stop paying attention to like traffic, etcetera.
And I think that these are judgment calls that individuals can make and don't actually require a like blanket ban.
And I think it's important to recognize that sometimes incredibly important things are going on in people's lives that need their attention to.
Like I think sometimes we receive messages that contain incredibly important information.
Either like, even if it is like something as simple as like what our plans are for the rest of the day or where we're driving, but they can also range things that are much more intense.
Like a lot of people receive word of like some like some ill having befall on a family member, or like a crisis of some sort.
And these are things that we don't think people should have to feel obligated to wait for, especially in situations where they aren't actually costing anyone else any harm.
We also think that it oftentimes gets less safe when people are trying to be more secretive.
But even that's not true, we think that people often have a right to do things that might be harmful to themselves or others.
I think smoking cigarettes is like a really important example because even though it has massive spill over effects via secondhand smoke we still see it as something that is like a right to an individual.
For these reasons, proud to propose.