Don't ban school uniforms.
Three main arguments: first on why it promotes learning.
We want kids to focus on classes not on what they're wearing but more on what they're learning.
Clothing adds an entire new social aspect to education in that everyone wants to keep up with trends and look good.
It takes up a lot of personal meaning and personal energy and therefore really kind of forces children to participate even if it's something that they personally aren't as interested in or wouldn't have done on their own.
Danny talks about creativity and individuality but we think that kids can just find other ways to do this and express themselves in an academic setting.
There will be plenty of time outside of school after classes end to wear different clothes and in school they can take classes or other creative things if that's what they care about.
But also we think that anything is a bad metric of creativity if it is something that directly correlates with the amount of money that someone has, right?
Like people can access interesting clothing styles and different types of clothing that can look better if they have more money to do so which means that when kids are being creative through their clothing they're really just using whatever money they have access to to facilitate that creativity which is unfair since you can have plenty of kids who are plenty creative and plenty individual but might not have access to that same monetary resource and therefore wouldn't be able to display themselves in the in creatively in this form.
We prefer a world in which it was normalize that your creativity and your individuality can be predicted and shown in ways that don't involve your clothing which you buy but rather maybe through the things that you create and the interactions that you have and that's a lot easier to do in a world with school uniforms.
Our second argument is about why it's good for school social and economic hierarchy.
Schools will often have kids aligning themselves along class lines and one of the ways in which this happens is by the type of clothing someone wears because clothing in a way that very little other things does, instantly signals what the person can or cannot afford.
It often gets used as a basis for bullying and exclusion.
With uniforms there are still ways to tell the economic class of a child but it makes it significantly harder and gives people more time to get to know each other personally rather than on economic level.
It also equalizes the playing field when everyone is dressed the same and looks the same and we think that this is actually better because this way children can make friends with each other first before they start judging them on what they wear.
Recognize that these kinds of exclusion and this kind of bullying is something that is very much taught by society.
So if you have a school that promotes a normalization of uniforms and a normalization of equality, you're a lot less likely to even have kids who want to start excluding other on these kinds of premises just because it's so looked down upon and so foreign in these kinds of spaces.
Our third argument is that school uniforms make things cheaper.
When parents have to buy clothes for kids they have to buy a lot more than if they just pay for two sets of uniforms that get cycled through.
Like even if you're shopping the sales or at thrift shops, it still amounts that add up over time significantly more than just having uniforms.
Danny talks about comfort.
We think this is marginal especially since uniforms don't have to be super uncomfortable in order to be uniforms, right?
Like we think that it is very reasonable to have uniforms that also include a level of flexibility, are made of comfortable fabrics, things like that.
Like this is a debate about whether or not those uniforms should like make everybody look the same in school.
We think what those uniforms are made of is something that is much more negotiable.
Proud to oppose.