The motion for today's debate is: we should adopt libertarianism.
What this means is that, a world, in which the majority of people in governments adopt libertarianism, is preferable to the world we live in today.
Two many areas of clash, the first, on the role of government.
We tell you that, the primary role of the government is to protect the rights of those who live under it.
This is the case, because when a citizen pays into a system of government, through taxes, through voting, and through giving up certain rights, in order to gain protection from the government, they expect something in return, IE that protection.
Because recognize that, in a world without governments, my rights can be subverted by someone else, because they are stronger or more intelligent.
But, the value of an individual, insofar as we feel the same things, hear the same things, and are capable of the same emotions, is no lower than someone who's stronger, smarter.
As such, the governments exist as aggregations that protect the rights we are afraid of losing by chance.
We tell you that, the purest form of government is one that that, instead of impeding moral ideals, focuses on protecting the the rights of those who live under it.
Because, even if it's not always possible to actualize this, recognize that, there are often times that we need to violate certain rights, in order to protect others, like IE, it might be fair to ban certain types of guns, because we want to protect other people's rights to life.
It is preferable to get as close to this is possible, because it prevents government overreach in its purest form.
We tell you that, in the status quo, someone else's desires are constantly pushed on people through the government.
Recognize recently the FCC act that was passed.
It allows large corporations to sell our data.
We see this as an overreach of the government, because it is behaving as a moral actor, rather than just a protector of rights.
It is taking away our rights, in order to satisfy some monolithic being, that has desires.
But recognize that, this is wrong, because it subverts our rights, for a much lower order pleasure.
In so far as everyone is equal, we think that it is problematic when governments allow bodies to exert rights over others, and we tell you that libertarianism is an ideology that pushes themselves as far away as possible from this.
Moreover, we tell you that governments are not moral agents, insofar as every single person has a slightly different system of morality, and the government cannot represent them all.
It is preferable government remains unbiased, and focuses only on protecting rights.
We tell you that, libertarianism works with this, most of all, insofar as it dictates that the government ought to intervene as little as possible.
We tell you that this actualizes and crystallizes itself in the government being more of a protectorate, rather than a moral agent.
Our second area of clashe is about minimizing government intervention, and why it's good for people.
Because recognize that, oftentimes, the reason that we have policies that are interventionists, and impede on other people's rights, is because the government behaves like a moral agent, rather than distancing itself from intervention, and acting as a protectorate.
Things like abortion regulation, marriage regulation for gay couples, all of these are things that libertarianism avoids, because it states the government ought not act as an agent, but rather distances its intervention, and allow people to live as separately as possible.
We tell you that, recognizing rights is the primary motivator for a government, prevents the utilitarian game of: ' well, maybe this is economically preferable, and therefore it is alright to impede on rights ' because it sets the standard as rights being the most important, and is more willing to forego unnecessary pleasures.
Because my right to life is fore front, it is unlikely that a libertarian government is going to be willing to sacrifice that right, in order for it to create a temporary economic boom.
We think this is the current problem that our current governments fall into constantly, when they're willing to say: it's okay to create sub par human work conditions, in order to get more money in the long term for the economy.
It's for these reasons, proud to propose.