The motion for today's debate is that we should ban beauty pageant.
Two main areas of clash: first on how it entrenches norms of objectification.
Beauty pageants are literal competitions in which women are lined up and judged like pieces of meat based on their physical appearance and presentation.
This propagates the idea that women are objects to be evaluated only by their physical appearance and by and that their physical value is derived by their physical appearance.
So that thing that feminism has been fighting against for years when where women ought get judged by their intelligence or who they are as humans rather than what they look like gets set back every time a beauty pageant occurs.
There are also patriarchal undertones to these situations.
Men don't have an equivalent to female beauty pageants and the ones that do exist are very niche and very under attended.
So comparatively a very small and recent market.
However, for female beauty pageants, men are often in the judging pool.
They're often watching these pageants and even the existence of this on television where men can see women lining up for beauty pageants but don't see other men lining up for beauty beauty pageants sends the message that women are displaying themselves for male pleasure and exist therefore for male enjoyment.
This is incredibly problematic given that what this leads to is a societal culture of devaluing women as individuals.
It makes it a lot easier to take away the rights of someone if you don't see them as deriving value from their own existence but rather as deriving value based on their physical appearance or what they can do for you sexually.
So things like reproductive health matter a lot less when you don't think that that person deserves it or necessarily needs it because their purpose is purely for yourself rather for their own and they wouldn't have opinions about it.
Same goes for other issues, such as like paid maternity leave.
When you don't see that person as a real person, but only as a derivation of your own pleasure, you don't think they ought be afforded the same kind of rights.
Our secondary of clash has to do with how it affects individual women.
So what beauty pageants do is they pit woman against woman which undercuts the idea that strong female relationships ought exist.
When you're when twenty years of your life are spent seeing every single woman as a competition and someone that you need to beat in this game, it's difficult to form these kind of to form strong positive relationships with others.
There's also a like physical body dysphoria association.
Beauty pageants often require their participants to be incredibly skinny in order to seem beautiful.
This essentially leads to a world in which many of these women have eating disorders.
So bulimia and anorexia and like the normalization of these often come from beauty pageants.
This is bad not only for the participants, but also have a societal effect in which young women see this as the idealized body shape and feel like this is what they ought be looking like.
This leads to dangerous dieting and the propagation of things like anorexia and bulimia in general society as well.
Especially when these women become the goals that you feel like you need to attain so you're willing to like be unhealthy in order to be like similar to them.
We think when you remove beauty pageants you also remove this idealized version of a woman that they want to become.
Next, we'd like to evaluate the psychological effects of in occurs to a woman when she's evaluated by only her physical appearance over and over.
Because when someone tells you that you are your body for so long you begin to value yourself that way too.
This leads you into cycles of depression and self loathing because if all you like about yourself is your physical appearance, any change in your physical appearance can throw you into the pits of despair.
This is an unhealthy way to see yourself also because when you age physical appearance necessarily disappears and if you can't appreciate the rest of you then you end up in a situation in which there is nothing about yourself that you can continue to love.
For these reasons proud to propose.