We don't think that the government has any business banning boxing.
First, a response to an absurd argument coming out of the government.
They tell us that somehow people participating and watching boxing is going to lead to more violence.
This is silly.
We think that people have the ability to set boundaries between spaces in which violence is appropriate and spaces in which it is not so, otherwise we think that anyone who participated in wrestling in high school would also be more prone to violence outside of these spheres.
However, studies have shown that this is not true.
If anything, we have studies showing that being able to let your anger out via a violent activity is more likely to calm you down and make you less violent in other scenarios.
But also, we think that none of this changes the ability of a parent to say: we don't beat we don't beat people up in most situations, that's all, thanks.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why this is an unjust ban.
We prefer a society that is as free as possible, because when people are allowed to make as free choices as they can, you're more likely to be able to stave off dictatorships, maintain a democracy, and generally keep people happy, because people like to do what they want to do.
So we think that under this, will never actually proved why people can't consent into harms.
Briefly, he says, " well, because like promoters paint such rosy pictures, no one knows the real deal. "
But this is actually stupid, right?
Like people watch these games all through their lives.
They go through tons of training because they before they actually enter a ring, and they're and oftentimes they come from dynasty families that and are generally like surrounded by people who have done it before.
What this means is that if anyone is going to have an understanding of boxing, it is going to be the people who go into that ring in the first place.
Like it's not as if the the day before, the promoter tells them that it's, " oh so beautiful, " and then the next day they're like doing their first real match.
We think that it's actually incredibly infantilizing to say that people can't conceptualize these harms, because it's assuming that somehow they, because they're so desperate, people can't understand what they might have in the future.
All decisions are part of this weighing game of is it worth it.
If I need money, if I feel like this is something that is important to me, or something that I enjoy, or something that I am good at, all of these can be personally reasons that are more important and outweigh the potential damages.
And the government wouldn't know any better because the government doesn't know my personal situation.
But the second way in which you can ban something is if you prove that there's like a societal external harms.
But this doesn't actually exist with boxing, right?
Like I guess you can make an argument that your family is being harmed, but this is true of any damaging sport, and they have to show us if they're also going to like ban other dangerous jobs, like people should never serve in the military again or something like that.
Our second area of clash is that there's absolutely no consistency on their side of the house.
Are we banning all physically damaging sports, such as ballet, football, wrestling?
Probably not, because we recognize that in those that in these kinds of sports, people consent to these harms and that if they enjoy them, then this matters.
Either all of these are equally non-consensual and all of them ought be banned or we recognize that people can opt into harms.
We also think that there's a certain amount of risk associated with any job.
There are tons of unsuccessful waiters, basketball players and scientists, but we don't say that because they have the potential of being unsuccessful, we're going to ban them.
Rather, we let people train for these positions regardless and then if they're unsuccessful, they find something else to do.
Our third area of clash is just that people can enjoy this and this can be a valid way in which you make a living.
Just because you target the poor is not enough reason to ban this, especially if these people enjoy the activity and wish to participate in it.
We think a lot of the people did find a way an outlet and out of their communities and out of the violence that they're surrounded in through going into boxing, and we think that's valid in and of itself.
There are always going to be fields that target the poor and push them into circumstances.
Unless will is somehow going to end poverty, he better let people make a paycheck.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.