The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt vegetarianism.
What we model this by as that it would be a better world if the vast majority of individuals were vegetarians.
Two main areas of clash, first on stopping animal abuse.
Factory farming, the way the majority of people get their meat, is incredibly abusive both to the people who work there and the animals within them.
Animals are incredibly are put into incredibly small overcrowded spaces, they're underfed, over medicated and not allowed to range as they naturally would where they are living in the wild, or even see the sun in a lot of situations.
You don't have to buy that animals are equal to humans.
You just have to buy that they deserve to not spend their life in eternal suffering.
Recognize that there is an interaction of higher order pain versus lower order pleasure.
Humans have nothing to lose from not eating meat.
You can still have perfectly fulfilling diets, be healthy, have communal dinners etcetera.
Meanwhile, animals go through the ultimate form of suffering as they are bred for slaughter in the most painful ways possible.
We think that animals experience suffering in a similar pattern to humans in that it is something that they can recognize coming and something that they massively avoid.
This is why we'd say the most humane way to kill an animal used to shoot them from the back into a point of the body that would kill them instantly, because in that way they do not foresee the shot coming and also do not suffer from it happening.
We think the problem in the status quo is that animals are put through like intense amounts of suffering up the point of death as well as in death.
Which is necessarily rights violative for the few rights that they would have.
Our second area of clash is about environmental benefits.
Recognize that a large portion of emissions comes from methane produced by animals.
You need to decrease those emissions in order to decrease the amount by which our atmosphere increases in temperature.
So we actually think a really effective way to regulate those emissions is by getting rid of the animals that create them.
But also, recognize that animals take up much more water than the same land area of fruits or vegetables.
This is because you work for, in order to it grow a farm you first have to grow the food that they are going to consume.
So a lot of cattle and a lot of animals that are like used, eaten by humans are grain fed or corn fed.
And this means that acres upon acres of land are wasted and used incredibly inefficiently in that they are planted with crops that humans will never eat but rather the water that is used there and the crops that are grown are directly provided to animals.
Then as the animals grow up on that food, they also require their own drinking water which on net results in a lot of waste.
And we think that in a world where we are massively experiencing huge amounts of droughts, where individual areas find themselves strapped for water and having to pay exorbitant prices for it, where groups like flint michigan still can't get clean water to drink without having to purchase bottled water, we cannot afford to waste that on livestock that is just going to be killed.
We also tell you that they require much more grazing land and contribute to the loss of topsoil because the roots of trees and plants that keep that soil in place get strapped by the animals that are like eating grass off of there.
So like you have entire mountainsides that can no longer ever be grown anything on, or like planes that can never have anything grown on them because of the fact that they have been over grazed to the point where the mineral content is gone in their topsoil is completely stripped.
Our third area of clash is just about general harms that occur with these kinds of farms.
Recognize these tend to be be worse for the quality of control for like human human working there as well.
Like a lot of the times these have very low pay, they employ mass amounts of illegal immigrants so that their abuses against animals don't get reported, and in and in doing so they under pay these people and under provide for them.
They make them work for really harsh chemicals and all of this is also human rights violative and is associated with the industry.
So we actually think we would prefer that entire industry not to exist and this would only be eliminated if the demand for animal meat didn't exist.
So we prefer a world in which people are vegetarians.
Proud to propose.