First and foremost, it seems that yuval has some misunderstandings about how exactly the no-cellphone rules work while driving.
First and foremost, recognize that GPS systems that are playing on phones are allowed on both sides of the house.
No one is trying to take your GPS away, we're just trying to keep you from texting while driving.
Bluetooth is also okay on both sides of the house given that it doesn't force you to take your hands off the steering wheel and put them on a cellular device and thus raise your risk of accident, the way that holding a phone in your hand while driving does.
We think that we've recognized throughout like our driving history as nations that it is okay when people talk while driving, but it is not okay if we are overloading people's senses while they are driving, in other respects.
So, let's talk about what this round is actually about.
It's about the fact these current generation has found themselves so tied to their devices, they often prioritize checking their text messages above their literal, physical safety.
The paternalism that is occurring in this round is incredibly justified given that the thousands of people who die when car crashes due to texting while driving or using your phone while driving would still be alive to argue against this motion today, had they not used their phones during the car ride.
With that, two main areas of clash: the first mostly a point of rebuttal as to why it's not impossible to manage without your cell phone.
You don't need your phone on you at all times, it is merely a preference to do so.
Recognize that everything that yuval lists isn't urgent.
Even if we create pressures in our minds to check our phone, that's the exact reason that we need counteracting laws that tell us that that pressure is not worth it, because you could have legal issues.
Like all our world does is recognize that people have difficulty imagining themselves as fallible.
They always think that this time they will be safe because they are careful and they have done this so many times, and they never imagine that they're going to be the people who are ending up in a crash.
All we're doing is making sure that even if they don't think they're going to die, they know that they're going to get into legal issues, and so it's enough of a deterrence that even if you have a god complex, you're still not stupid enough to go and use your phone.
The most important thing in this round is decreasing accident rates because at the end of the day, those messages can wait, but if you die now, that's the end of your life forever.
We think more than this, though, there's a an auxiliary auxiliary benefit in that you get to disconnect more often than we currently do.
We think it's a problem in society that phones have essentially become an extension of the human brain and prevent people from being able to relax in a given environment or to stop using their phone at a moment.
And we think that time in the car is a perfect moment in which you don't you shouldn't like you can actually disconnect and learn how to function without your phone.
Our second area of clash is the obvious one: using your phone while driving is incredibly dangerous.
First, to you, in that if you are driving the car and you are crashing your car because you are using your phone, you're likely to injure yourself or kill yourself in the crash.
But let's say for a second that you get to make your own decisions and if you want to die, that's fine.
We don't think that's the case, we think that generally the government has the right to protect ourselves from ourself, as they do with the use of drugs.
But even if you don't buy that, we think that there's also a lot of externalities that are harmed.
A lot of the time you're not just driving yourself, but you're also driving other people with you.
And when you're doing that, you take on the responsibility for those people's safety.
And so we think on our side of the house, all that is happening is that we are creating a protected environment, both for yourself and the people who you are driving, not to mention those maybe those people consented to get in a car with you and maybe it's their fault that they did so.
But we think that when you crash into other people and they get hurt because of you, you are literally taking completely innocent bystanders and forcing them to feel the effects and consequences of your stupid action.
On our side of the house, we don't allow individuals to have their life cut short because others because of others' bad decisions.
Don't allow texting while driving.