The motion for today's debate is that we should ban smacking.
What we mean by this is that we would ban like individual parents smacking their children as a form of punishment or repercussion.
This would include spanking but would also include any other kind of like hitting of a child on any other part of their body.
With that two main areas of clash: first on the way in which this starts cycles of abuse that are incredibly problematic and long lasting.
First, recognize that when you spank a child in response to them misbehaving you teach a child that violence is the answer to getting what you want.
It says: " look when someone is making you unhappy, when someone is disagreeing with you, in order to make them comply you enact violence upon them. "
This makes them infinitely more likely to be violent in everyday life because they think that it's the only way they get things done or get what they want.
I think this necessarily leads to things like bullies on the playground that, when not allowed to have the swing that they want, will shove the child off of it.
This leads to them getting into more trouble like in school and in everyday life, which reaffirms this idea that they are a bad child and someone that deserves to be punished and like reaffirms those cycles as well, which actually sets them up for more like failure into their future and more likely to get in more trouble there.
But also it means that they're more likely to act this way with their own children because all of these people model off of their parents.
We get really paradigms on how to parent in current society.
It's not something that is taught by text books or in college classes or in any kind of class.
Rather, we learn it directly from the individuals who brought us up and then enact that same thing on like the individuals that we bring up.
But if abuse is all you know, that'll be the only thing you know how to pass on.
This forces your own offspring into the same cycle that presumably you hated, which means that we never actually get an end to these kinds of cycles.
IE children of abusers abuse their own children who become the abusers in the future.
This is really problematic because we think that we need to create a world in which individuals can interact with each other and others without hurting them, and without seeing physical violence as a like proper response.
Our second independent argument is about efficacy.
Recognize that like, short and sweet, smacking doesn't work as a form of punishments.
Kids learn avoidance, like not actually the reason that it is bad.
I think the issue is that parents often use smacking as a replacement for communicating to their child what the problem is.
The problem there is that children don't learn to stop doing something by like a blanket banner, like a blanket like: " you cannot do this ".
Rather, they're oftentimes rational creatures that want to know the rationale for a certain action, not just what the end result ought be.
The problem with smacking a child around us like a way by which you get them to comply with you is that kids start to hide their bad behavior but don't actually do it less, because they don't know the reason that they ought be doing it less.
This is bad because it means that they never unlearn, rather they just learn how to do it in a like more private setting, which doesn't actually take away from the fact that it's probably an action they shouldn't be taking in the first place.
But the second layer to this is that kids start to distrust their parents when they are afraid of being hurt by them.
This means that they won't go to them if something actually goes bad or if there is a real problem.
This is dangerous, especially as children get older and the shenanigans that they get up to get worse.
We think it's really important that individuals who get badly hurt during like bad stupid games, or individuals who like get someone pregnant or have sex without protection, are willing to reach out to their parents rather than like hidden underneath because they're afraid of being punished.
We want kids to communicate with their parents and feel comfortable.
And more than this I think it's true that children tend to generalize these responses to authority as a whole, which means the same children that got smacked around by their parents also have a hard time interacting with teachers or cops and other figures of authority.
For these reasons proud to propose.