The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish antisocial behavior orders.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on why it is anti free speech.
We think first that it provides way too much power to the society in which someone currently finds themselves in.
What we mean by this, is that given that these antisocial behavior orders are regional, if someone is in a predominantly white christian society, it is very likely that a completely different class of behavior would be regulated than say if someone is living in an inner city in primarily minority communities what they would choose to regulate.
We think that both of these extremes tend to be bad insofar as we don't think that any majority ought be able to oppress a minority using these these kinds of orders.
Insofar as this is truly just a form of oppression of saying hey these are behaviors that we have communally decided are incorrect rather than for some actual impact and enforcing that will upon a free individual.
So we think that what this ultimately does besides just the principle of why it is like oppressive, is that it creates over policing in areas in which it should not be so.
We think that a lot of the time there are many behaviors that individuals to dislike but in the end are not ultimately harmful or completely debilitating to them.
We think that a lot of the time you get incredibly racist individuals or even slightly racist not incredibly racist individuals who might look down upon individuals say who are listening to really loud rock music or those who are wearing their pants too low.
We think or women who aren't wearing things that are deemed physically appropriate enough for them and so we think a lot of the time these kinds of orders are going to tilt to lot of over policing like racist or sexist policies in conservative areas.
We think at the end of the day liberal areas have infinitely less reason to use them except to regulate maybe hate speech which we still think applies as a with all of these arguments in terms of being a violation of free speech but we also think it's just infinitely worse that you're giving the power to conservative areas to do things like tell black men to keep their pants up, like prevent people from listening to music, tell women that they have to wear certain clothing or dress code them effectively.
Like these are all capabilities that probably ought be kept out of a majority hand given that it impacts an individual's right to self-actualize and an individual's right to right to like present themselves in whatever so way they choose.
At the end of the day, we way their right to like basically self-actualize against any kind of minor discomfort that these larger groups might be experiencing.
At the end of the day, we think that these larger groups can always look away or ask them to leave politely or any number of other alternatives whereas these individuals truly have much less of an outlet for their whatever desires they are portraying given that they're only one facing many more.
But also we think that this has incredibly problematic impacts and in terms of activism and how those gatherings look because we think it's really easy for a group of individuals who don't want social movements to gather or politically advocate in a certain area, to portray those groups as doing something that is considered antisocial.
Like shouting in public can be incredibly destructive even if it is to meet a politically good goal however, because it still falls under the blanket of shouting in public, you could presumably put them into civil court under this kind of motion.
The second area of clash is about how it's unnecessary and frankly dangerous to individuals.
At the end of the day, if something is truly bad and truly criminal then it's going to be legislated by law and if it's not yet then we think that it's good to force these laws to go through multiple levels of checks before you actually apply them to the individual insofar as that is how you make sure that they truly don't have adverse effects.
We think it's just not the case that the average person is qualified to dictate the laws by which we live the rest of our lives over other people.
This is why we do things like elect judges or make sure that people have adequate schooling before these make they make these decisions or to soon up unbiased manner.
We think generally we prefer a more free society in which individuals do as close to what they prefer as possible.
This is because fundamentally in a democracy we want people to be able to self-actualized as they see fit and it is incredibly unlikely that anyone knows your circumstance more than you.
At the end of the day, most people respond to extreme shaming anyway.
So we don't understand why you should be getting them into civil court.
For these reasons, proud to propose.