Don't ban school uniforms.
Recognize that we can do things like support those uniforms that do exist being unisex or broad.
Like we think that a lot of school uniforms in the status quo do things like offer individuals a choice between wearing skirts or pants or like multiple different kinds of shirts.
So there's still room to exercise your preference, it's just a matter of not allowing individuals to choose their own wardrobe entirely rather having to select from a set of options.
Two main arguments: first on why this is good for parents.
Recognize first and foremost that this is a lot cheaper because regardless of what james says about how oh like maybe now you have to buy extra clothing on top of what you have in the status quo, this just literally isn't true.
Right?
Like there's infinitely more pressure to buy a lot of clothing when you don't have school uniforms because individuals feel like they have to have a different outfit for every day or things like that.
So yes, we agree, you're still going to have to have some outside clothing but it goes down considerably when you don't have to do things like account for the pressure of your child to fit in with numerous individuals who happen to have really rich parents who can wear a different outfit every single day or never re-wear the shame same shirt more than four times or something like that.
It also just means that the other clothes that you have, what it looks like, matters a lot less.
In the status quo, kids face pressure to dress in certain ways at school.
They are told that they have to fit in with the current trends.
They want to stay up with like the cool kids or whoever's popular, who tends to be dressed really well and this is something that gets offloaded onto the parents.
Clothes that support your social status are something that are really expensive and requires a larger mass of it.
So we think that it's actually really helpful when uniforms allow you to not have to worry about perception.
Parents who worry about the clothing being too provocative etcetera, also now have an easier time because they don't have to do things like chastise their child for wanting to wear something to school.
They can just be like " okay you have a uniform that you have to wear " and that lays a lot of stress off of individuals.
Our second argument is about why it's good for school culture.
Recognize that it mitigates the social and economic class bullying that often goes up because we agree it's not going to eliminate everything.
Little children can be really really mean to each other.
But we think that a lot of the time what happens is that in the status quo, people who dress poorly tend to either be unpopular or bullied because of the way they dress.
Regardless of whether or not these are individuals that are fun to be around or really smart or people who these kids would otherwise want to be around would they be dressed differently.
This usually intersects with class and whether or not you can afford those nicer closing those nicer clothing.
We think that what happens when you do things like you have uniforms first, you mitigate that bullying, but also you change the way that children internalize their own image.
So in the status quo, you often compare yourself to your peers in terms of how they can dress and what kind of extra items they can afford, whether or not they have the coolest new pencil case, things like that.
But on our side of the house, the way that you internalize the differences between you and your peers is no longer the same because the easiest, largest, most visible comparator, the way that an individual dresses is gone.
We also think that like given that this is less visible of an issue, they don't internalize them lacking the money for this in the same way.
Drew talks about how this does things like stifle kids creativity.
Look, you can still do that outside of school.
School is just nine hours of your day.
You go home afterward.
You do things look go to extracurriculars.
You're going to have job interviews when you're older.
These things will still teach you to dress for the real world.
You'll be able to look at your parents as models, things like that.
The only difference becomes what happens during the day and how does that impact the students and the parents who have to fund those clothing?
Proud to oppose.