So we think that there are a lot of issues associated with school uniforms but this doesn't mean that they ought be banned.
So first, we want to talk, we want to address a few of opposition's gov's points.
They bring up this freedom of speech points, they talk about how black arm bands are really important.
The problem for this is that you can still advocate for the allowance of accessories or the allowance of freedom of speech in tense political motions or using things like posters as a way to politically speak without necessarily taking away from the existence of uniforms.
We think that there's a difference between oppressive school systems that don't want children to be able to speak out their political opinions, such is the case with tinker versus des moines where the school just didn't want to get politically involved, versus a school that wants to have uniforms but still wants to engage students politically and let them have opinions.
Then there are then will is like, oh but we really need you we need to be able to express ourselves through our clothing.
So I think that most people will accept that school is: first a professional and academic environment and second a social one, given that once the school day is done you may go and socialize as you wish.
So we we're fine with reducing someone's right to self expression because in the end they have their down time to do so as long as we show you that there are benefits to uniforms.
Two main areas of clash, first on uniforms as an equalizing force.
Because will assumes that uniforms are incredibly expensive but he forgets that being able to buy your teenage daughter clothes is also very expensive especially if you want to fit in with the trends.
Meanwhile, on our side of the house, maybe you have to give you have to pay a little bit more to get two pairs of uniforms but after that you just wash them and rotate them out every day, so it actually reduces a lot of pressure.
Recognize that schools tend to be an economic mishmash.
Unless you're an incredibly preppy private school, you're unlikely to run you're unlikely to end up being from all the same economic class, and even those have scholarships.
Clothing is often used to impose popularity hierarchy based on how expensive said clothing is.
This creates a world in which people who can't afford new and expensive clothing get bullied or feel bad about themselves as compared to their peers.
So we think that being able to just buy a few uniforms for cheaper than an entire closet for school and keeping up those trends costs actually removes a massive amount of pressure to fit in from those who economically cannot afford to.
It also allows people to become judged based on their abilities rather than how they are dressing.
We think a lot of the time even teachers who are like skilled and supposedly trained not to react to this still react to the way that their students economically present themselves.
And providing students with the best opportunities through equal through equalizing the way that they look, is one of the ways in which you can prevent teacher bias from slipping into the decisions that they make in the classroom.
We also think that it's important that parents who often feel guilty about not being able to provide their students with the same quality of like clothing as their peers can now take this pressure off of their mind as well, they can save this money for other stuff, etcetera.
Our second area of clash has to do with uniforms as a school right because recognize that we've acknowledged in a lot of court cases that schools do have a right to curtail students rights upon entry of essentially a private sphere.
For example, we've seen that rights to freedom of speech and rights to protection from search and seizure don't apply in so far as schools can have much heavier regulations on what and how students can talk.
And they can also search and seize students property at any time in order to check for any illegal activity or like any evidence of whatever investigation they might be running.
They also have the ability to run their own private investigation out of the sphere of the law.
So will had to prove a fundamental nature of clothing to self expression that somehow makes it that you cannot that we would like take away what is has essentially been recognized as a school right to control the environment that their students are in, given that there are plenty of other ways in which students can express themselves.
We think it's fair for students to get rid of these for schools to get rid of distractions or politics in their classroom , especially population politics, through enforcing school uniforms.
Proud to oppose.