Don't ban cosmetic surgery.
Tim is worried about perpetuating bad norms.
First, in order to win on this, tim has to show why cosmetic surgery perpetuates these norms anymore than celebrities and popular media that serve as the inspiration for cosmetic surgery in the first place given that he's not banning those.
But moreover we think he's got the directionality of blame entirely wrong.
It's not cosmetic surgery that causes and perpetuates these bad norms, these norms are created by other factors in society and people respond with cosmetic surgery to try and fit into those norms.
What this means is that banning cosmetic surgery won't actually alleviate the issues that tim wants to deal with because they're going to continue to exist insofar as they are caused by underlying other causes, which means we don't think you should be banning cosmetic surgery.
Two main arguments, first on why it's not justified to be banned.
Cosmetic surgery doesn't hurt the person doing it that badly and doesn't have any overflow harms.
We live in a country that values protecting individual freedom, even when they think that the decisions they might make are bad for themselves or for society.
Something perpetuating a bad norm is not reason enough to ban it and tim doesn't do nearly enough work to show you why it should be and why it should outweigh those personal freedoms.
This is because we recognize that the government can't just put themselves into other people's shoes effectively.
There are just too many people in the world and too many different ways of prioritizing the pleasures in life.
We have to let individuals do the weighing for themselves.
Things that someone else might see as not worth it can be worth it for the person next to them because they are two different people with different value systems.
If the government bans cosmetic surgery, that's massive government overstep.
It's the government taking it upon themselves to mold social norms as they see desirable and unfairly interfering in people's lives.
If it's that person's body, the government shouldn't be interfering with that.
It's not as if cosmetic surgery is being forced on anyone else, they probably can also make the money calculus themselves.
Like you're not being coerced into that decision so we just like don't really understand where tim even comes up with the idea that you could possibly justify banning this.
Our second argument is about allowing people to be happy.
People feel dissatisfied with themselves independent of cosmetic surgery.
So all of the issues that tim doesn't like about fat shaming etcetera are going to exist even in a world without cosmetic surgery because these are all things that are caused by societal norms that are propagated by unclear often patriarchal forces.
So insofar as he's not getting rid of that, all he's doing is getting rid of one of the methods by which individuals can make themselves feel better while living in that kind of system.
Cosmetic surgery can be really beneficial in helping someone feel better about themselves or fixing something that they dislike.
And even if it's the case that they should love themselves it's not the case that people always do, and we think that those peoples' desires are valid.
By the time you're an adult and are making decisions about cosmetic surgery it's unlikely you're magically going to turn around and love those features, so you might as well be allowed to do what you want with them.
Cosmetic surgery will never be something that the majority of people do.
It's too expensive, body positivity movements are getting really strong, and plenty of people just don't want to go under the knife.
And this cuts out a lot of tim's offense because he depends on trying to show you that cosmetic surgery is so normalized that everyone is feeling dissatisfied with themselves and it's becoming this broad sweeping occurrence that everyone partakes in.
Given that this is simply not the reality, we don't understand why you should stop it.
Moreover we think he underestimates the power that body positively movements have independently.
If we can show you that the government cannot interfere and we can still get a lack of those bad norms, then we automatically win this round because that's what tim has been banking so much on.
So recognize that insofar as we have these educational movements that are saying look young women love yourselves no matter what and a lot of people are responding to them, we just don't think that you are ever going to you're you're going to have the same kind of high rates and we think they're going to drop off naturally without the government overstepping.
Proud to oppose.