Don't ban child actors.
I think the problem with sam is that he doesn't recognize that these kinds of circumstances are always manipulatable.
What I mean by this is that we can mandate the number of hours like a maximum number of hours that child actors can work.
We can mandate simultaneous academic education on top of the status quo child labor laws and all of that can solve for all of the harms he's talking about without ultimately causing all the harms of removing child actors entirely.
Two main arguments: first on why it is an unnecessary ban.
Recognize that as long as we can guarantee protections children can consent to these kinds of situations.
Recognize that they have seen movies, can be told about what child actors do.
They're usually people who were already heavily involved in acting in theater so they actually have already been putting in the effort, they just haven't been being paid for it and it's something that like can be incredibly empowering for kids to do things like earn their own living for a second, participate in something that becomes a massive media like attention generator, things like that.
So we think that in so far as the majority of children can contextualize that kind of commitment, we think they ought be able to do so because it can have those positive benefits for them.
We think that mortality rates are literally not an issue.
I don't know why sam brought it up.
Like this isn't something that is so hard work that they are going to die from it.
We also think that if it gets to that point, these are the regulations we're talking about.
Like none of these situations are completely static.
Like we also think it's really important to recognize that they're not actually outside of the conventional child labor laws.
We in so far as both me and sam agree that acting is not different from other types of work, recognize that in the status quo child labor laws state that children can work as long as it doesn't interfere with their health, safety or education.
We can work within those those boundaries at which point we don't think there's reason to ban child actors.
The government has to demonstrate how this is uniquely different from an extracurricular activity with tiger parents or volunteering or any other job that someone might end up earning money from as a like fourteen or thirteen-year-old as a child.
We think the problem is that a lot of the time children are forced to put in a similar amount of hours either for less compensation for a worse job or for no compensation because it is done as an extra curricular like acting.
Like if your parents are those kind of intense parents that are going to sign you up to be child actors, they are intense parents that are going to force you into acting either way.
So the question just becomes do you get to earn money from it and does it get to be something that is regulated?
Our second argument is about the value of children in the medium.
Recognize that this first and foremost has artistic value in that it does things like allow us to portray different kinds of experiences at different kinds of age ranges.
The problem on their side of the house is that they literally erase the ability to portray individuals under eighteen years old from the media entirely so you either really have bad adult actors pretending to be those who are younger or you just don't have media about kids.
This is bad because we think that art is valuable because people connect to it, because they see themselves reflected in it and therefore, art has to always have some aspect of reality in it that people can hook onto.
So when we're talking about movies and shows not having children as a valuable portion of the human experience that government never gets access to, which we think is really really problematic.
But more than that, we just think this like narrows the amount of art that you can create because there are only so many ways that you can arrange human really like adult human relationships.
But when you add children to the mix that is when you explore different phases of their lives, different ways that they interact with adults, and other things that can make art truly diverse.
But also we think that kids connect to other kids and they deserve to have media that gets targeted for them.
It's really boring to watch a bunch of adults on a screen doing adult things but really fun to watch people your own age and identify with those groups in media.
This is why the majority of children's shows are focused on children because they are the ones who kids want to see.
Proud to oppose.