The motion for today's debate is that this house would ban trans fat.
Before I get into my two areas of clash, a brief overview.
We think it's important to note that corporations will never care about the consumer.
They're always profit-driven, they are looking to make the cheapest and most addictive product that will make them the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time.
What this means is that because corporations will not look out for the consumer and consumers often do not have the information necessary to look out for themselves fully, it oftentimes falls on the part of the government to do so.
What this motion is about is about recognizing that paternalism is justified when a consumer cannot understand the harms that might come to them and corporations are not willing to take responsibility for the impacts of their decisions.
Two main areas of clash: the first about obesity as a rising problem, because we think it's important to recognize that the united states and many other countries, in recent years, have been struggling specifically with the issue of trans fats and other and like the way that we make our food, causing rising rates of obesity.
But these rates of obesity mean more than just the aesthetic of people being fatter rather than skinnier.
It also leads to incredibly unhealthy habits and incredibly unhealthy people.
On a personal level, this means that individuals are dying sooner.
They're getting sicker.
It changes their quality of life, which we think is important in this round insofar as part of a government's purpose is to ensure that humans have a certain quality of life that they can enjoy.
At the point that corporations are affronting that quality of life by providing foods that raise levels of obesity, we think it ought to be banned.
But more than this, we think that there're societal level impacts.
We think that at the point that hospitals' biggest problem right now is small is younger children who do not exercise and eat incredibly unhealthy diets that make him make them very overweight and causes other health-related problems, such as heart problems, early onset diabetes and many many other issues.
The point that we're seen conditions in people younger and younger that should not be seen, due to obesity rather than age, meaning this is all on the part of the government to regulate and protect.
More than this though, we think there's a productivity impact as well.
We think that a lot of the time people have to quit job their jobs earlier if they're getting sicker earlier, if they cannot maintain their like work day because they are getting tired a lot faster.
At the point that this is oftentimes caused by obesity and bad diets, we think trans we think that trans fat ought be banned.
Our second independent point has to do with why this is a check on corporate interests, and we think that you ought protect the consumer.
We think it is true that people cannot internalize the risks of consuming trans fat.
First we tell you the impacts of trans fat are oftentimes very long-term or at least, unobtrusive enough until they culminate to a point where they are irreversible.
Let me paint these scenarios easily for you.
Either we have a situation in which people are consuming trans fat but they're not getting sick until they're thirty or forty, so the impacts on me as a child are not clear until I am much older, or I am a child and therefore don't control my diet and parents don't recognize what happens, or we think the problem is that because these impacts happen day by day, people don't notice the changes in themselves and cannot self-regulate.
More than this, we think that oftentimes these substances are incredibly addicting.
In the same way like cigarettes and sugar have been shown to have addictive qualities that keep us coming back for more regardless of the health impacts, trans fat is similar in that it stimulates the same kind of pleasure nerve endings that are stimulated when I'm smoking a cigarette or consuming something very sugary.
At the point that people can literally not control consuming more fatty foods because of addiction, we think it is on the part of the government to step in where they cannot.
For these reasons, proud to propose.