The motion for today's debate is that suicide should be a criminal offense.
What we mean by this is that someone if someone is caught attempting suicide, they are taken before a judge and the judge is allowed to decide their sentence.
We would allow for more unconventional punishments as is currently allowed in the status quo, presumably a lot of the time this is going to be required therapy or outpatient facilities etcetera.
Three main areas of clash.
First, on how this forces people to get treatment.
Because recognize that in the status quo there isn't actually a way to force someone who is depressed or suicidal to put themselves into a facility, unless they bring up the self motivation to do so.
This is because every state currently respects self-autonomy up to the point when a family can prove that someone is not a rational actor.
This is very difficult to do, especially when you are working with older patients who have like who have shown themselves to be functioning adults in the past, etcetera.
What this means is that we have to have a way in a more effective way of getting people who clearly have a problem to seek help.
We think that first, the potential threat of having to face a criminal offense is, and like potential jail time, makes people less likely to attempt suicide in the first place.
But we think that if you do, having to go before a court, being assigned a punishment, etcetera, means that you are actually more like this is one hell of a wake-up call, and it's more likely to push you into finding treatment in the future, so as to not repeat this kind of experience.
Moreover, we think that in these situations, judges are much more likely to be lenient and push them into patient facilities, because it is currently pretty well known in society that depression and suicide is not something that is caused by anything that a person can necessarily control, but are rather caused by underlying mental illness.
More than this, we think that because there are no other people physically injured in the act, judges are more likely to be lenient because they don't need to be clocking jails up, like there's an incentive to keep people who shouldn't be in jail out of jail as much as possible.
And we think that even though sometimes we lose those conventions when it comes to people who might be doing very soft drugs, we think that there's still a lot of programming that judges have with regards to mental illness that will make them specifically more lenient.
Our second area of clash has to do with how it forces the system to reevaluate mental health as a form as a whole.
If you're suddenly getting an influx of depressed people in into your jails, then you have to start adjusting your system to deal with them, because otherwise you just end up with a lot of people rotting behind bars, which I guess technically already happens, but it's a lot more difficult to ignore them if these are people who are suffering from mental illnesses, or coming there for specific reasons.
We also think that even if that's not true, people who are the parents of these individuals or loved ones are much more likely to stick around than if you're just a hardened criminal, or someone who has committed low level crimes and probably comes from communities that care about you less.
So we think that there's actually going to be more accountability in prison systems or in juvenile detention centers, in that are hosting large amounts of attempted suicide survivors.
So at the point that this is true, we think that there are certain overflow benefits.
If you're going to be upping your mental health care specifically for these patients, you're also going to be upping it for the system as a whole, and so we think that currently a lot of people who have undiagnosed issues are much more likely to get treatment on our side of the house.
Our third argument is a little bit more sensitive, because we recognize that suicide is caused by underlying factors which is depression.
But the fact of the matter is that you're still killing a person in the process, and so currently, there are laws against killing or attempting to kill others, and I think the burden is on op to tell us why suicide is significantly different.
Like sure, there are underlying emotional issues, but this happens with a lot of murders but we still punish them.
The underlying principle is still ending the life of someone else, and that is criminal.
We need to thus discourage it in the same way, and we need to keep legal consistency in the same way.
If you're going to be killing someone else, you need to be treated the same way regardless of the of the underlying context.
This is the way that our current legal system operates, and it's unclear why we need to change that.
For these reasons, proud to propose.