The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize the ivory trade.
What we mean by this is that we would raise barriers, especially in countries that have populations of elephants and allow poachers or individuals who are currently poachers or individuals who desire to, to purchase an incredibly pricey license we like caveat that it's going to be incredibly expensive that would allow them to go out and hunt elephants for their tusks.
We would have quotas on how many elephants can be killed per season and that will be reflected in the amount of licenses that are given out.
With that, two main areas of clash, first on creating impetus for conservation.
There's a problem in the status quo where because elephants don't really provide a use to humans conservation efforts are primarily led by small non profits with the majority of the population massively ambivalent towards elephants insofar as they don't see them as anything that like massively makes their lives better or worse.
This means that they like are just as likely to support acts in conservation of elephants as they are not to.
Meanwhile poachers exist in the status quo and are slowly wiping out the population and have pretty large market for ivory composed of those who are insanely rich or those who are insanely stupid and think that ivory has some kind of medicinal effect when it doesn't.
However if you legalize the trade you can require expensive licenses and send that money to conservation efforts.
Moreover you give reasons for communities to benefit from the economic that benefit from the economic impetus to care about elephants in the first place which means they're more likely to work harder to protect and breed the population.
A problem in the status quo is that reservations and conservation areas are massively under funded and that individuals that are supposed to watch out for poachers oftentimes are under staffed and under trained.
But we think that when the community values that conservation land, values the animals on it because they see it as something that is going to bring like monetary gain to their community, then they are infinitely more likely to check licenses, like build better walls, watch out for the poachers coming in.
It also means that they are much more likely to value the natural habitat more.
Currently a lot of development occurs on elephant land and this is bad and this is bad both because it destroys the elephant environment but also because when when new new buildings crop up elephants tend to destroy them which makes the general population mad at them and generally creates a sense of resentment between the people of a community and the elephants that also live there.
And so we think that when you like give give that relationship some value when it is like people interacting with elephants and people who care about those elephants then they are much less likely to build on that land in the first place but also much more likely to understand why animals behave in the way that they do.
Our second area of clash is about changing market demands true to remove ivory from something that is desirable.
Recognize as the majority of the world's ivory has been confiscated by the state or nonprofit institutions and there's actually an incredibly high supply sitting in dusty closets and hidden away but it's artificially made it seem low by removing a lot of it from circulation.
If it becomes legal, groups can flood the market and lower the price to the point where individuals would lose interest in those ivory in the first place.
This is true because the vast majority of individuals who buy elephant ivory are usually people who are into into ivory just because of its expensive and rich connotations and they like it as a status symbol more than anything else.
We think that you cause a long term solution if you cut off demand permanently and make ivory something that is easily obtainable for those who use it for religious reasons or those who believe that it can be used in a medicine.
For these reasons, proud to propose.