We should not abolish the three strikes laws.
First, we think that all of danny's arguments about how bad the prison system is are arguments for never punishing anyone.
But insofar as we recognize that there are times in which punishment is necessary regardless of the like pragmatic situation that our prisons are in, we're unclear how these arguments matter until he provides you with a bright-line of why for some punishments, throwing someone in prison is acceptable regardless of the fact of them not controlling their actions whereas for other crimes, maybe wouldn't do so.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on the pragmatics.
I think the most important thing a lot of the time in these kinds of debates is preventing future crime.
Given that given that like we're never going to have a perfect prison system that like pumps out rehabilitated people and we're never going to have a world in which there are no criminals that don't need to be put away, we think the next best thing is having a system in which we tell like show people a way or scare people into not committing the same crime a second time.
We think the best mechanism we have is separating people from society via prison systems, and therefore we don't actually know how danny can have a real issue with the mechanism.
Like he doesn't present us with an alternative and so, I guess this is what we're stuck with.
When people commit crimes, they do so based on weighing calculuses.
They consider the potential cost of the potential punishment, but then they consider this in conversation with the potential reward, and if the potential reward outweighs the likelihood of being caught or the like heaviness of the punishment that might await them, then it is very likely that these individuals will go through and follow through with the crime.
So and we think that gradiated punishment, through something like a three strikes law, is actually really important in showing in like changing this weighing calculus, because what it tells us is that the first time that weighing calculus wasn't enough to sway that person's opinion.
Like however big that punishment was, it has to be bigger in order to change the sides of the reaction.
And so we think that what we allow is a world in which if the first didn't work, we go on to the second to see if it changes the calculus.
If the second doesn't work, we go on to the third and hopefully that'll be enough deterrence.
Second after this, though, we think that danny depends a lot on recidivism being high, but we don't think this is practically true, right?
Like we think what the three strikes laws actually does is allows us to punish individuals very lightly at first.
And we think that the alternative world is one in which politicians or the like general public push for initially hard punishments, because there's no promise of punishment later if it's done again.
With the three strikes system, we think that you can cut slack because of because you promise like harsher punishment if they mess up their second chance, and like you show that it comes with a higher cost.
So we think that when done properly and when individuals listen to these kinds of deterrent, it actually ends up with less overcrowding insofar as people who would oftentimes have been put in jail on the first offense just aren't, on our side of the house.
But our second area of clash is about the moral fairness.
Because danny spends a really long time explaining why it is not morally good to have a three strikes laws.
But the problem with this is that, like, once again, he doesn't show you a bright-line, but also he doesn't actually explain to you why it isn't fair, right?
Like we think that when people commit crimes, they deserve punishment.
This is true because regardless of whatever motivation they had for committing the crime, the harm to the victim and society still exists and still needs to be remedied.
And the only way in which you can remedy that is through doing something like throwing someone in jail or punishing them in some kind of way.
We think this is especially true if the same crime is being committed multiple times by the same person, since it means that you've already been warned and you are choosing to continue doing the same thing in the face of knowledge of like the likelihood of you being caught or the likelihood of like how bad the punishment will be.
So we actually think that it's completely justified morally and even possibly morally required for you to have something like a three strikes law.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.