Don't ban beauty pageants.
I think that we can still do things like regulate child beauty pageants, I think those have unique harms that aren't covered by this motion, but I think that the fundamental thing that we're going to talk about is why adults ought be able to consent and participate in these kinds of activities.
As a brief overview, I think the problem with a lot of what dan danny says is that he talks about why this might reinforce or propagate a system of sexualization of women etcetera but he does not explain why it is inherent to that system.
What I mean by this is that I think he had to prove to you that this is the cause of those of those actions of objectifying women etcetera rather than just a symptom of a society that already does so being exaggerated.
Insofar as women are going to be sexualized and objectified in literally every other aspect of their lives, I think it is uniquely unfair to limit them when they are doing it to themselves for profit.
I think that people who participate in beauty pageants very rarely do it just because they are vain, rather they do it because they know they are physically attractive and that they stand a lot to gain from the activity in a capitalistic sense.
And we think that that kind of thing should not be banned insofar as women will still have to do things like be attractive for men on both sides of the house we might as well let them be attractive for themselves and for the money on ours.
Three main areas of clash, first on the validity of beauty pageants.
First I think that it is not the case that beauty pageants is just a yes pretty women here and they're kind of thing.
I think oftentimes it comes as like a showcase of regional, international, or like local beauty.
So, when we compete on the international state, it's about showcasing your culture and identity and the way that it plays out in the unique appearance of someone which is why we have like the like this unique ways of dressing depending on what country you're from when we go on to international beauty pageants.
We also just think that it's a competition that often combines a lot of preexisting competitions.
So beauty pageants aren't just how attractive you are they also usually include a talent competition or some kind of physical competition so it's unclear to us why this is absolutely unique from any other kind of thing except that it now adds another layer of like oh also who do we think is attractive.
I also just think that oftentimes it can be used to celebrate different kinds of attractiveness certainly maybe not body type we think things like facial features are also often just like and skin tone in all of this are also often rejected in regular society but can often be signs of when it comes to beauty pageants when we can look at like miss like a queen india or whatever it is like those kinds of titles can be incredibly empowering to people of color but we also do you think of the government doesn't have a right to ban it like there are plenty of problematic activities that happen.
Insofar as you can still make children go to hip hop classes that sexualize them and promote the same kind of objectification, it's unclear why beauty pageants are meaningfully worse.
Our second argument is about opportunities.
We think that scholarships, money, and recruitment for jobs and like colleges often happen at beauty pageants.
People have a right to go for that like like go to my overview.
Sure women are objectified but insofar as they're going to be that on both sides of the house, the question is just do we want them to be able to profit off of it.
Our third argument is about personal rights.
Even if you buy that beauty pageants are bad for society, we think that one thing they didn't do is prove that they are bad for the individual, because we do have the right to do things that are bad for society.
We allow individuals to smoke cigarettes, to get breast implants because we value individual freedom more than we value societal outcomes insofar as we want to avoid mechanizing the individual because that tends to be abusive.
Insofar as the good is idiosyncratic and this has clearly been deemed to be good by society, let it stand.
Proud to oppose.