The motion for today's debate is that we should ban bullfighting.
Two main areas of clash, first on how it is abusive to individuals.
We should ban this to protect the people who are part of it.
There is no way to consent into potential harm of literally dying.
Recognize that the risks associated with bullfighting are a lot higher than other kinds of contact sports or other kinds of really aggressive sports like football because you're dealing with incredibly unpredictable and strong animal.
Minor slip ups have dire consequences and there is no gradient of intensity for consequences the way they are often are with other kinds of sports.
So recognize that with football, the amount of rough housing is often equivalent to the amount of injury that someone sustains.
So it's possible to be someone who sits on the outside of the field, doesn't necessarily participate as vigorously, and has a really low risk of being harmed.
The problem with with bullfighting is that regardless of what position you're in regardless of where you are in that arena you're always going to be the main target of the animal that you have specifically enraged to target you.
The problem is that participants never imagine that it would happen to themselves because they always think that they are strong enough or will come out on top.
Humans have a natural god complex that allows them to take risks.
The problem is that when it's applied to especially dangerous context it makes them incapable of recognizing when that risk is not worth and when they ought be prioritizing their life.
Also recognize that individuals are often brought into the system intergenerationally, ie you're born into a family of bullfighters and taught to carry on that family fortune or that family activity.
This is incredibly nonconsensual because individuals are born into that system and brainwashed into that system.
They don't actually get to choose an alternative rather they are forced into something that can that participation will literally destroy them.
And I think that we ought be prioritizing individuals who can't consent.
This is why we are often against child labor because we recognize that these children are incapable of saying no and we think that something really similar happens here or even if you're not working at age ten you're already being trained at incredibly young ages to perform in something oftentimes removing other alternatives.
I think something really important to recognize here is that people train their children to be bullfighters in lieu of other schooling and other extracurricular activities.
So in the process of becoming this really dangerous really problematic career, you are losing the ability to choose any alternatives because you just don't acquire those skills in the same way.
So we prefer to protect those individuals and ban this.
Our second area of clash is about why it's abusive to animals.
Even if you don't think that animals are equal to humans, it is the case that that animals probably have some form of rights.
This is because they feel things like suffering, have some form of sentience, oftentimes form group bonds an experience fear and so they deserve to be protected from further suffering and from further experiences of harm that they would prefer to avoid.
This it doesn't matter that they are less rational if we based writes off of rationality babies and people with mental deficits wouldn't have rights but we recognize that regardless of what your mental capacities have the fact that you suffer the fact that you are an individual with an individual being and an individual consciousness still awards you the right to be protected at least from exploitation at least from other suffering.
Bulls are creatures that feel and avoid suffering and in bullfighting the are beaten, caged and often badly harmed or killed for other people's entertainment.
They are grown for this activity and never provided with any other way out of it.
We think that insofar as these animals are massively abused for individuals' pleasure at their own cost we don't think that it should be sanctioned and we think that it ought be banned.
For these reasons, proud to propose.