Don't limit the use of birth control.
I think the problem with a lot of tim's advocacy is that he doesn't recognize what the directionality is for the hypersexulization of society and the rate at which people have sex ie there is none.
Recognize that hypersexuality in society is vastly due to the way that pop culture portrays women and men, portrays sexual relations, and portrays when these should be occurring and objectification within that.
And none of this gets shifted by tim's like proposal right?
Like not allowing birth control doesn't change what people see in the media or what producers put in the media insofar as that is still what sells presumably or like what makes money or any number of other incentives that control why things go where they go.
So we think the problem becomes that once tim doesn't get any of the benefits that he gets all that is left is the harms of having unwanted pregnancies, individuals who are getting STD's because they're not protected and just generally people being limited from having sex.
Two main arguments, first on women's choice and destigmatizing sex.
We don't think that the government or any private entity has the right to limit access to birth control.
It is the woman's body and therefore she should be what it should be her choice what to put into it but also when it comes to the consensual sex between adults it should be their choice what they use in order to prevent pregnancy or if they want to prevent pregnancy at all.
So even if society is hypersexualized as tim we told you this isn't caused by prevalence of birth control but rather pop culture that tim doesn't change.
So now you just have less access to the ways in which you make that's sexualization safe.
We also just should be passed the point where we try to limit the way that people have sex with each other.
Like it's the twenty first century.
Individuals when they're consenting adults or even when they are consenting teenagers presumably should be able to choose for themselves how they want to live and the government trying to to interfere with that has historically been so unhelpful and so just like contrarian and often times actively detrimental that we just shouldn't be at that point anymore.
Our second but also under this we want to talk about sex being good because I think a lot of tim's assertions are just like oh people having sex is a bad thing, people shouldn't have sex until a certain age.
Like of course there are certain emotional consequences that come with sex.
We think that oftentimes individuals are able to weigh against that for themselves.
Like it feels good for you, it's a good mechanism for balancing stress, it creates intimacy with another person.
Like birth control allows individuals to access the benefits of sex on their own terms and without the fear of pregnancy.
And given that sex is generally a good thing we don't understand why you would want to stop them from doing so.
Because even for teenagers, this is often like a fairly integral part of their development and their self actualization.
It is to learn more about their bodies like enjoy that pleasure those are all positive parts of growth.
Our second argument is about preventing unwanted pregnancy and the consequences.
Tim says there'll be more parental control and that like you should have limits over eighteen.
The problem is that he just doesn't have a way to stop young people from having sex.
Like just factually historically whenever people have been like oh look we're just not going to give them condoms that means we won't have sex that's when you have the highest rates of teen pregnancy because teens don't care what adults want them to do.
They're going to find ways to sneak around either way.
And even when the culture isn't hypersexual people under the age of eighteen still want to have sex with each other and it's a lot worse to pretend it's not happening because that's when you end up with STD's and unwanted pregnancies and moreover now people just won't come to adults for help because they're going to feel like they're doing something legally wrong at this point.
So parents even if they know the best for their children on their side of the house won't because those children just won't go to them anymore.
But also we just want to contest the idea that parents know the best for their children at all.
Like at the end of the day, it is not the case that parents always know what's best.
There are plenty of naive or controlling parents that actively harm their children so we just think this isn't a good argument.
We don't need unwanted children in the world, we don't need to derail sixteen year old lives because of an unwanted pregnancy that we can prevent.
Like birth control is a good.
Proud to oppose.