The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish needle exchange programs.
So basically what needle exchange programs are is when drug addicts can go into government funded buildings in which they can exchange dirty needles for clean ones with the hope that this prevents the spread of blood borne illnesses and keeps people healthy while they are like taking drugs.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why government endorsement of drugs is bad.
When you're using government money to provide drug addicts with a method of injection, it is an endorsement on the part of the government of drug use as a whole.
You're basically giving them the tools by which they can inject and this is an implicit suggestion that you are accepting what they are doing because otherwise you would do something to prevent it or at least like say that it is bad.
But we think that normalizing drug use for the general populace is always going to be bad, right?
So first, automatically this does normalize the use of drugs in so far as now I'm just going to see a lot more people going in and out of these buildings and coming out with like needles, I'm going to see advertisements for this, I'm going to be taking a bit out of my taxes in order to give you these kinds of programs, and it basically says look, this is a societal thing that is going to exist and that its cemented in its place.
We think this is bad because it basically admits that there is no way to completely get rid of it, which we think is what we ought be striving for at all times.
But more than this, we just don't think that you want to give people easier access to start their drug habits because we think that it's a that the way in calculus for whether I'm going to do drugs gets a lot easier if you know that you're going to have access to clean needles and that your health risk is less.
Like a lot of the time we think that people who are considering trying their first time, they also consider the health risks associated and decide whether or not it's worth it.
So when you decrease the associated health risks, we think you also decrease the barrier that people have to cross in order to start doing drugs in the first place.
Our secondary of clash has to do with expenses.
First, we think that the taxpayers shouldn't have to pay for other individual preventable actions, especially when they're illegal.
So basically in the same way that you wouldn't expect me to pay the bail of criminals who aren't related to me, you ought not expect me to pay for the needles of people who are doing an illegal action that I myself do not participate in it.
Because not only do I not benefit off of it myself at all, unlike things like public parks and road services, but it's also something that is actively illegal and detrimental to the rest of society.
So you're having me fund a detriment.
But these costs are very high and so we think that things like taxes would go up dramatically paying for facilities and regular needles which would be a consistent cost.
But also these areas would require things like increased policing, because if you're going to have large amounts of drug addicts marching back and forth, you're going to have a much higher risk of violence occurring because where there are angry drug addicts who want to get high, you also have people much more loose with their fists.
So given that they're going to be all of these extra costs, we think that it is incredibly expensive for the individual taxpayer which is unjust, but also that this money could be used for better programs that could be more helpful for the majority of society.
So things like stopping food deserts, things like funding reproductive health care, or even like more simple things like food banks.
More than this though, we think that the that these kind of needle exchange programs lead to ghettoization.
You're basically putting a critical mass of drug addict addicts in a concentrated area.
Not only does this mean that people generally don't want to be around large amounts of drug addicts, so what it does is that it decreases things like property values, and increases violence in that areas in that area.
So what you have on their side of the house is essentially large swaths of land that become overcome by these needle exchange programs and stop being productive for the rest of society.
We think that this ought not be propagated and so you should not allow an alley by which it can occur.
For these reasons proud to propose.