Don't subsidize higher education.
Look recognize that in the status quo we already have scholarships, public colleges, and other loan and grant opportunities that facilitate individuals being able to access higher education.
This fulfills the obligation that tim talks about because it's not the case that people have a right to higher education at any university, even one that is particularly expensive or particularly elite, rather just that the state has to provide access to some form of higher education.
Given that this is already occurring, we don't think he can win this round on that argument.
All of the opportunities that tim lists can be accessed through a public, less prestigious university that anyone can access relatively easily in the status quo, even if they have to take some loans out which time says he's okay with anyway, right?
Because the cost of your local state university often is no more than ten thousand per year and often times can be severely mitigated if you have extra need.
Especially recognizing that you have a lot of need-blind universities that once you get in guarantee you're going to get everything you need to attend.
This actually especially applies to plenty of elite universities like brown and other ivies who have the money to provide for that.
With that, two mean arguments, first on accounting for actual need.
There are plenty of wealthy families and individuals in this world who simply don't need anyone to subsidize their education because they can afford to pay for it by being like just from the income that they already have.
We think that it would be especially problematic if we do things like subsidize that anyway because it means that the money that could have been used for other individuals who actually need it or for other social welfare programs is instead of going to individuals who are able to afford university education on their own without any additional aid.
This is a literal misuse of government money because when people pay taxes they expect that money to be used for the common good, and paying for individuals who have the money to pay for themselves simply doesn't account for that.
Moreover recognize that this is also the rationale behind things like progressive taxes.
We recognize that rich people are able to pay more so they probably should.
In the same way we probably shouldn't subsidize individuals who won't be harmed by having to pay for their college education just because that money can make a much bigger difference somewhere else.
Also recognize that the status quo accounts for these kinds of differences.
We have things like FASA and CSS profiles and need-blind universities that evaluate student financial situations and offer them grants and loans.
We're also final discussing plans to extend that further, we just think it's bad to subsidize everybody's college education.
Our second argument is about backlash.
In order to fund something like this you have to raise taxes to fund it, especially with this particular subsidization which costs billions of dollars to implement in order to account for every single student in the US.
This means a lot of people are going to be very angry about how much more money they're paying and when this happens people respond by going to the polls and electing individuals who are more extreme conservative leaders that won't passed similar policies in the future, but worst of all are likely to do a bunch of more harmful stuff on top of it.
Because these are often people from the same groups that don't believe in abortions or don't want immigration to occur or like really other bad things like our anti-vaxxers.
Like these are just correlating opinions of a lot of the time.
So we think this is actually the most important thing in this kinds of debates, more important than anything that tim might have brought up, because these kinds of people create a less safe future in the long term.
So as long as we're doing okay right now, we need to prioritize who's going to be in charge later because those people are going to make really important decisions.
But this is also important in the context of tim's argument about why people become like state dependent because we actually think in the status quo we are already capable of alleviating individuals who would rely on the state through higher education because most people already have access.
It is oftentimes other things that prevent them from being able to exercise that access and that would have to be fixed in other ways.
Proud to oppose.