The motion for today's debate is that we should ban smoking.
There are two standards to ban that are usually accepted in legal terms and within like political terms and both of those will become our independent points.
First we will demonstrate that there's extreme harm to yourself and others.
If we show that people can't consent to the extent of the harm they will experience it shows that they shouldn't have the opportunity to be tempted by it in the first place and thus it ought be banned.
No one can consent into the long term harms because no one can contextualize or imagine themselves ending up addicted.
Everyone always thinks that they can stop or that they have enough self control.
This is something that is integral to human nature, something that we will never get rid of and something that people necessarily need to be protected by whether it's by seat belts, guardrails on cliffs, or bans on like incredibly harsh substances like heroin or cocaine.
Further you can't imagine getting lung cancer or a series of other illnesses because you never imagine yourself getting to the point where you are so addicted that you were getting all of these chemicals into you.
Not only this but there's a massive asymmetry of information when it comes to any kind of activity and we think that oftentimes corporations purposefully pull the wool over peoples' eyes and lie to them and tell them that they're not as harmful they designed this one cigarette that is magically going to be so much healthier than the other ones and this misleads individuals to feel like what they are doing is non-harmful and the only way the government can protect against that asymmetry of information and prevent corporations from doing this is by banning the practice entirely.
But also recognize the comparative here.
I think it's incredibly problematic that it is scientifically established that drugs like cocaine are less addictive and oftentimes less harmful in terms of the long term in that they carry more risk of a particular symptom occurring but on aggregate that one symptom really rarely occurs whereas with cigarettes it's like very continuously established that it's really likely to occur and yet for some reason cocaine is illegal but cigarettes aren't.
But even if you don't buy that, if you show you if we show you that other people are significantly harmed, it doesn't matter if the individual can consent because the individual cannot consent for other peoples' harms.
Secondhand smoke is incredibly damaging and causes breathing problems and cancer almost to the extent of a smoker in individuals who have never touched a cigarette.
And we think that's something that a smoker can never consent to on behalf of their children or on behalf of their housemates or anyone who happens to be close to them.
Moreover in households money for cigarettes often trades off with money for other needed goods and harms that family economically.
Also addictive behavior is often learned from your parents so children who are born into houses with cigarette smokers are often designated to become smokers themselves and lead the same kind of life as their parents.
The only way you break these cycles and prevent other people from being harmed is by banning the practice.
Our second area of clash is about the pertinent government interest that exists.
Via healthcare costs alone we can explain to you why cigarette smoking ought be banned.
Cigarettes are incredibly physically detrimental.
Companies specifically target poor regions so large portions of addicted individuals don't have insurance or rely on government support.
Millions in health care costs occur due to cigarette related injuries that are a drain on government funds and a drain on governmently funded healthcare systems.
And so we think that the point this these these are resources being taken away from other illnesses that people have infinitely less control over that the government cannot regulate in the same way then it ought be regulating this one.
But economically it's also a bad plan.
Cigarettes are really expensive and the money just goes to large corporations and those were already rich.
These are millions of dollars that could better stimulate the economy and create true growth.
A lot of the time people compromise a more diverse set of goods to be able to afford cigarettes.
For example because I bought cigarettes that week or because I have a certain amount of budget allocation to cigarettes, I'm not going to buy something that was like maybe an item for the house or something that I like wanted for a while as like an amenity and we prefer that they would buy those items and stimulate the economy in that way rather than buying cigarettes.
For these reasons, proud to propose.