The motion for today's debate is that we should end daylight savings time.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why it is an outdated and dangerous tradition.
Daylight savings time started because farmers needed to be able to work while there was light out and because people could not do work when there was no sunlight due to a lack of electric lights.
But we no longer exist in a completely agricultural economy, and present-day farmers can do a personal version of daylight savings time if they need to, using their alarm clocks, given that it is only one hour.
More than this, the existence of electric lights has further invalidated daylight savings.
We no longer need to get every last drop of sunshine, because we can now make our own at our desks.
Since our productivity is no longer bound by the sun, neither should our schedules.
More than this, daylight savings time is straight-up dangerous.
Statistically speaking, car crashes and other accidents jump at the time of daylight savings time because people's bodies can't adjust to the change quickly enough, and you end up with a three-day period in which people are exhausted constantly, cannot focus, and cannot like do simple tasks without larger amounts of accident-proneness.
So, more than this, we also see that accident accident-related deaths, specifically, skyrocket massively during daylight savings time because it is a lot easier for people to make mistakes, such as pressing on the gas wrong or turning incorrectly, or if you're working in construction, forgetting to, I don't know, put on a hard hat, when you're incredibly tired.
It's unclear why we should keep an outdated tradition with a death toll.
This creates one burden for opp to to have to meet.
They have to show a real unique benefit to daylight savings time that hasn't been solved by modern by modern inventions that would justify the fact that so many people get harmed and hurt and discombobulated.
Our second area of clash has to do with a lack of productivity and efficiency.
At the same time as you end up with more accidents and more deaths, you also end up with people losing productivity at the time of daylight savings time because of the readjustment period.
They show up to work exhausted for multiple days in a row, and thus are incapable of working to their full potential or to their full efficiency.
It disrupts their schedule and makes them more irritable, which also damages their relationships with others at their job, and you end up with large swathes of people missing their early morning meetings because it's daylight savings time and they're just not used to waking up an hour earlier.
We prefer people to be operating at their peak capacity regardless of how marginal this might be or how marginal gov might claim it might be.
We think that millions and millions of people across the globe suddenly becoming incredibly fatigued and not being able to carry out their daily business is actually a massive amount of inefficiency if you were to add all of that up.
So we think at the point that this can be avoided at absolutely no cost, it ought be.
More than this, we tell you that it has been very effective in places that have stopped.
Countries, such as russia, phased out daylight savings time years ago and have seen nothing but benefits.
Not only have they seen decreases in accidents that the united states continues to struggle with on a yearly basis, but they've also demonstrated more stability and productivity.
So, you actually end up with a world in which people are going to be consistently productive regardless of that time of year or the arbitrary time when we change our clocks backwards.
So, at the point that there is no real harm to removing daylight savings time and it has long outlived its usefulness, we think that we ought abolish it.
For these reasons, proud to propose.