Nuclear powers sounds pretty on paper but isn't worth it in reality.
Three main areas of clash, first on the danger of nuclear power.
So op argue would argue that meltdowns are rare and that nuclear power is so good that it doesn't matter if sometimes there's a malfunction.
But I think the problem is that they don't recognize, first exactly how not rare these meltdowns are, but second the damage that they create.
So first we think that meltdowns are actually much more common than people like to say, we see that governments often cover them up when they occur because they don't want people to know about them and they don't want to see that they messed up, but oftentimes they get out from under the covers such as chernobyl and we see that the damage that they rend was actually enormous.
So and we also think that as you produce more plants you necessarily increase the risk of having a meltdown and so probability wise you're much more likely to have a dangerous situation occur when you exploit nuclear power further.
But even if they do happen very rarely, we don't care because the damage that it does is so bad that we would prefer to avoid it entirely.
First, recognize that this isn't a just one time thing, some people die and then we move on with our lives.
When you have a meltdown, not only does it cause immediate destruction to the people who are living there but it also causes long term damage in that it can mutate their genetics and cause it so that generations and generations of children are born with defects.
It also directly affects the area surrounding.
So animals and flora can no longer grow their normal way because of this residual nuclear waste.
And this can occur, like chernobyl is still uninhabitable we see that it actually destroys these areas for very long periods of time and with rising population growth, we really cannot afford to have that.
Second though, we want under this, we want to talk about the disposal of nuclear waste because this is also incredibly dangerous if it is mis-handled.
And we often see that companies like to cut costs oftentimes by cutting the amount of cost that is associated with waste expenditure.
And the problem with this is that we have a history of toxic waste being dumped, often in low income areas, so that companies can save a few dollars.
And we think that this is also incredibly dangerous, first because there's now nuclear waste in someone's backyard and it causes the same kind of impacts that a meltdown would, but second because it often specifically targets minority groups living in low income areas and it prevents them from being able to live stable and happy and healthy lives.
Our second area of clash has to do with why other energy forms are simply better.
We think that when that something that op has to acknowledge here is that the political and economic will that you are using does not exist gets used up and will not happen again for other forms of green energy.
So if we make this move with nuclear power it means we necessarily cannot adopt something like wind or sun energy.
The problem with this is that these other types of energies are a lot cheaper, a lot cleaner and a lot less dangerous, so it's unclear why you would be producing prioritizing nuclear power when these are also options.
We also think that when you fill this niche through government subsidies it means that you aren't going to have corporations working on that other green tech which leads both to economic stagnation, but also to energy wise stagnation and it makes it a lot more difficult to adopt other types of technology in the future, should nuclear power not work.
Third independent point has to do with how expensive nuclear power is.
The chemicals cost a lot, as does waste disposal, and a lot of the subsidization by government means that this is like millions and millions of dollars on the part of the government and we prefer that the money would go elsewhere, either in terms of like subsidizing larger problems in society so like currently we're really struggling with allowing healthcare access and education access for everyone and we just think these rights are infinitely more important than exploiting nuclear waste, nuclear energy.
For these reasons proud to oppose.