The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize higher education.
We mean by this is that we would start by making all public colleges completely free while simultaneously massively raising the governmental aid that comes through the form of need-based scholarships for those who might have gotten into more prestigious private universities.
Two main areas of clash, the first on education as a facilitative right.
We think that there are current that there are basic rights that everyone tends to agree on.
The right to live a free life, the right to have access like equal access at the beginning to certain opportunities, like the right to live but all of these rights are individually facilitated by other things and we think that blocking your ability to access those other things are synonymous with blocking your ability to get to those very basic human rights that everybody agrees upon.
We think education is one of those jobs insofar as it becomes it has become more and more difficult to access a basic standard of living and basic opportunities if you do not have a higher education in the status quo.
We think we see this with the automatisation of more blue collar jobs as well as with like the general air of nonchalance that people have to the approach of like a living minimum wage.
As such we think that part of the government's job is to make sure that people have the equal tools to self actualize and participate in society and access those basic rights, and because in the status quo education is simultaneously more necessary to different jobs where previously it wasn't and more expensive than it's ever been then it becomes the obligation of the government to make sure that people have access at least to the most basic form of higher education especially since without it it's often the case that people end up forced into poverty and we need to prevent there from being this like institutionalized barrier to being able to access it.
Like we think at the end of the day people should be able to have equal access to choose between different opportunities even if not equal access to those opportunities at the same time and we think the only way in which someone can meaningfully choose to work a job that doesn't need education is if they have the ability to work one that does if they so desired.
Our second area of clashe is about how it's good for the united states on a few levels.
First, let's talk about how it's politically beneficial.
We think that generally people who are more educated tend to be more politically active.
This is for a few reasons.
First it's because they're taught to use their informational sources effectively.
We think that that part of the problem is that it's like surprisingly difficult to find non-biased news sources if you aren't someone who was been regularly exposed to like methods by which you find them when you were younger.
We also think it's because you're surrounded by people who facilitate you being politically knowledgeable like I'm a science major but I have plenty of friends who happen to be politics majors and because of them I recognize why it's important to be politically active.
But third we think it's just because at the end of the day working higher education jobs tends to be physically easier than working those that you can access without an education.
If I'm spending hours of my day on my feet because I work something basic like something that doesn't require an education whether it's working in the mines or working at mcdonald's this is physically a lot more exhausting than any kind of mental work that someone ought be doing.
Like you come home and you don't have the energy or the ability to keep yourselves up to par on everything else in the way that in the way that those who are more privileged with a job from a higher education do.
So we think that it generally leads to more democratic systems when you have more people who are politically active.
We also think it's beneficial for the economy insofar as if you have more people earning more and since it's more likely that you'll have people living above the minimum wage once you have more people educated, it means that you have more people buying stuff and paying taxes which is good for the economy but also less people relying on government services which means that the government can spend more on other things.
For these reasons, proud to propose.