The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the two party system.
What we mean by this is that rather than having just the republicans and the democrats you'd also have any other third party, similar to like the systems that we currently have in israel.
And essentially you'd, instead of having to claim a majority of the votes, you would just have to claim a plurality in order to win a given election.
With that three main areas of clash: first on why it creates more options for individuals.
Currently, there are a couple of situations that people find themselves in when they're casting their vote.
Either they're hard core hard line republicans or democrats that have been voting with their party forever.
All this means is that they're going to continue to do so unless their party do something truly egregious, but the majority of the time even if their party does do something truly egregious they feel like they don't have any other option but to continue voting for them because they feel like the other party is worse.
We want a world in which you're not just trying to beat the other party on being less bad, rather we want you to have to prove that you're actually the best.
The other scenario is that your a swing vote.
In which case the same thing I just that applies.
You're going to have parties trying to show you that the other one is bad because there's only one party to beat.
They don't actually have a incentive to highlight what is better or unique about them, they just have an incentive to like throw as much mud as possible.
But the third scenario is that you're a third party voter, and the unfortunate case here is that in the united states you're essentially throwing away your vote.
Third parties never win.
In fact, they barely even get enough votes to like be a threat to anyone, in reality.
And in the worst case scenarios, such as this past election, third party helps the worst kind of thing win.
A really good example of a world in which of a scenario in which it would help to have multiple parties is actually this past election.
You had donald trump and you had hillary clinton, and there were a lot of people who really really really really hated trump.
Like he's a problem and his racist and he's sexist.
But they also really really disliked hillary clinton, which was really fair because there's a lot of shady stuff in our history, like they didn't want another another monarchy president.
But regardless of these issues, what ended up happening is that they were so principally opposed to both of these candidates that they voted third party.
But because third party doesn't actually matter, all that ended up happening is that it contributed to donald trump winning the election.
We don't think that people should have to choose between the lesser of two evils and we never think that their vote shouldn't matter.
We also think the system you have currently breeds a lot of apathy.
You get used to having some issue, some issues completely overlooked by the party and get used to having to prioritize what you might find most important in a given election cycle.
We don't think people should have to make these compromises.
Our second area of clash is how it provides more options for budding politicians.
Because right now you often join a specific party and you sit on their campaigns and you help them and eventually maybe run for office, but this comes with a lot of compromises along the way.
Like a lot of people start out incredibly idealistically, and then as they further their career a lot of their policies are considered not like palatable to the general public, or not the policy of that given election cycle, or maybe even you don't actually do the like same but you maybe you don't agree with what your party stands on.
But I think when you provide more parties to choose from, you actually get a world in which budding politicians don't have to compromise their own beliefs.
Our third area of clash is how you get better political systems.
Currently are our two parties are stuck in innovative ruts.
They've been the republicans and democrats fighting each other for years and years and so a lot of their a lot there are certain issues that just remain dormant.
Lake this election cycle the really big deal was immigration reform and healthcare, and so things like reproductive rights seem to go to the wayside and we defer to the typical republican arguments.
We think the only world in which you're actually forced to be more innovative is one in which you're competing with new in previous undealt-with parties.
For these reasons proud to propose.