We should further exploit geothermal energy.
What we mean by this is that we think it would be good if the government encouraged its adoption.
We're fine with this coming in a monetary way, but generally this is a just a debate about whether or not we prefer a world in which we use more.
Two main areas of clash: first, on climate change.
I've established this over and over again: global warming is bad.
It leads to the destruction of coastline like populated villages and towns.
It like leads to the spread of diseases as climates that were previously inhospitable to specific strains become more hospitable and vice versa.
The destruction of crops and crop cycles occurs when some places become so much hotter or so much colder that it can no longer grow the same crops that it used to, which disrupts economic cycles in the way that human beings live their lives.
It kills people and animals, it causes droughts, the list of impacts is endless.
And the cause of all of this is the release of greenhouse gases as a by-product of the burning of oil, gas, and other kinds of energy.
These things go out into the atmosphere, they interact with the ozone layer, and it leads to a global energy increase, in fact, that causes severe climate change in both directions of extremes, cold and hot.
So this this like happens with everything, whether we're like heating houses or running companies or driving cars.
And recognize that like the solution to this is about changing the way in which we derive our energy.
So if we stop using oil and gas, if we replace it with something that, like, geothermal energy, that is significantly cleaner, then we are able to cut down the amount of greenhouse gases that are let into the environment, and we are able to come up with solutions for them.
So, we think that like if you can replace oil and gas-powered machinery with geothermal energy, you end up with much less pollution, which means less global warming, but it also means less air pollution, which we think becomes incredibly important when people live in cities that are very densely populated.
Like we've all seen photos of the smog that hangs over cities in china and japan and even los angeles, and this is really bad for the people who live there.
We see increased rates of asthma, we see increased rates of specific types of cancers, and so we think like the problem that happens on their side of the house is that they're not ever able to diversify their energy for like fundamental, like what provides that energy, so they're not actually able to fix the impacts.
And so we think that when you get cleaner air on our side of the house, that is also good.
Our second area of clash is about why it's better for the population.
Recognize, first and foremost, that it is renewable.
This means that it is naturally replenished and there's no way for us to exhaust energy when it is properly managed.
We also think that like the sheer amount that we are able to access is estimated to be absurd, like something like two terawatts worldwide.
This is a lot of potential, like enough to fuel the globe.
It's also just a lot cheaper to provide to larger groups of people.
First, it is a lot more available.
We see with gas and oil that countries that have pockets of it are infinitely more likely to get economic benefit from it.
They're able to restrict it from other countries that might need it.
And so we think that like renewability also lowers the market price as well as availability, so it's just cheaper.
But also, because you don't need any specific machinery to harness it, there's less cost fluctuations and like stable electricity prices, which is also really important when we're considering day-to-day operations of the average family.
So you're just not likely to get a situation in which suddenly saudi arabia decides they really hate you, so nobody can drive cars for like the next four million years.
We also think that it's just specifically very good for the kinds of common-day activities that like and the average person could benefit from.
It's really specifically good for heating and cooling systems, so it would be used for smaller households as well of large corporations.
This benefits the average consumer, and it's much more available worldwide than any kind of other source of energy, including sunlight or wind energy.
Proud to propose.