So I think everyone's going to agree that racial profiling is something that is inherently problematic.
The question in this round isn't whether this is problematic, but rather whether it works and whether the alternative world in which it doesn't exist is worse.
Two main areas of clash the first on why it becomes even more pernicious when an ineffective ban is placed.
And recognize that this ban will be ineffective.
Racial profiling is literally impossible to prove or regulate because, sure, you can say: " I got pulled over just because I'm black " and any cop, any airport security person is going to be able to say: " we reserve the right for random checks.
We like you you were like this many miles over the speed limit " here's why there is reasonable doubt.
We think all you're creating on their side of the house is a world in which it is easier for in which people come up with more inventive excuses to like make sense of their racism.
We also think that because it's often done by government agencies that have huge amounts of resources both to do racial profiling profiling and to cover it up, you're aren't actually going to have a world in which it is affordable for those who are oppressed to go to court and say: " look this was an instance of racial profiling ".
Except in edge cases where we think that it actually matter a lot less and is outweighed by the kind of harms that occur on like the mass scale.
There's also an incentive not to convict when this happens because these regulatory agencies are also government based, and often fraternize with the same types of people and don't want them to be angry of with them in the long term.
Because eventually you're going to need something from the police and you don't want them to refuse you.
It all what this does is sends the message that laws are meaningless and the federal government isn't actually in control.
Like when you create a law that is then openly flaunted by other by like states and people, it sends the message that your government cannot maintain control over their laws and cannot enforce those laws.
This strengthens the alt right when liberal policies are flaunted without punishment.
Because now they get to say: " look, everyone agrees with us.
Even if this policy got passed, it doesn't matter.
Let's rally around it. "
We also think it creates even more distrust between marginalized communities and the government.
Because now it's like: " look you just made our situation a whole lot worse, and also you're protecting all of these people for what they've done ".
See what's currently going on with gun violence.
We watch as cop after cop is not convicted for the like acts of violence that they have.
Because in the end when you're suing a cop you're on their side, because, like, the government is on their side.
Because even if they know that they did something wrong, this is someone who works for them and therefore someone they need to protect.
We think the same is going to apply with with banning racial profiling.
And it gets even worse because now these like marginalized communities feel even more like even less protected and even more vulnerable.
Our second area of clash has to do with the efficacy of surveillance system.
So, as much as it sucks, it's just true that many terrorist organizations are more likely to have members from that region.
So, isis is in iran with primarily brown populations, it's just true that most of isis terrorists are going to be brown.
Yes, sometimes they recruit white people.
Yes, you should track them as well.
But we think that you're going to have a much wider likelihood of success if you narrow some of your searchers based on race, simply because these are the regions from which these people come from, this is where their primary recruiting occurs.
So when it comes to airport security or government surveillance where resources are scarce and there's oftentimes some point of like some kind of time pressure - so a lot of the time with government operations you have to figure out like what's going on almost immediately or else people die - we think that it's okay to use racial profiling because it can narrow down the search results and find you the most likely answer.
It's a problem that is needs, like, that this occurs and is needed and we agree that it needs to be fixed.
But that's not a reason to prevent actual efficacy with regards to governmental agencies.
We also agree there's no correlation between race and crime, but because of unfortunate social inequality, the correlation between poverty and crime often translates to certain races having much higher rates of crime.
We don't think this is a reason to stop policing them, we don't think it's a reason to stop like to stop arresting these people just because they're people of color, and even though racial profiling sucks, we think at the point that most gangs are minority group run gangs, we think that a lot of the time this is going to be the most effective ways by which you're actually going to be isolating the people who are committing crimes and like participating in this.
For these reasons proud to oppose.