The motion for today's debate is that we should lower the drinking age.
Some modeling: currently in the united states the drinking age is twenty-one years old, we would lower it to fifteen.
We would maintain the age of purchasing alcohol at at eighteen years old, but we would lower the age of consumption to fifteen.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on decreasing glamorization, because currently alcohol is massively touted in society as this glamorous things that those who are overworked, those who are overtired, those who are depressed, and those who are partiers and cool people, are going to consume in order to maintain their personas.
Because of this, you often get individuals with incredibly weird ways of conceptualizing alcohol and the way that it affects the body, because rather than recognizing all the problematic aspects about alcohol, like the way that it damages your brain or your liver or causes addictive tendencies, they only see that glamorous aspect that says that if they drink, they're going to be adults and cool.
As such, in the status quo, you get massive amounts of youth drinking alcohol in order to seem adult or party or because they're peer pressured into it.
This is really bad because they hide it from adults who can help.
They tend to drink too much and since they don't know how to drink or how to stay safe, they often end up in very dangerous situations.
It's also bad because, in the status quo, you have a lot of underage drinking, but when something goes wrong, they can't call the cops because it's illegal, or they're too afraid to because of that legality and they're afraid of getting in trouble.
This literally costs people lives when, instead of calling the doctor for when your friend gets alcohol poisoning and is throwing up everywhere, you let them choke on their own vomit.
We also think that you're more likely to feel pressured because it seems like everyone is doing it and it's so cool.
But if you have a healthy relationship with alcohol that can start a lot younger, you're much more likely to see through the lies and like that clouded judgment of your teenage brain, and you're going to see that not everybody is drinking, and there are safe ways to do so, and it's not necessarily a good thing to over-excess drink.
And so we think the only way you start decreasing that glamorization and that stigma is by allowing people to enter that world when they still have parents around them, and they still have adults around them, and rather than avoiding talking to them, they just turn away from them and instead, on our side of the house, they're actually going to discuss the issues that they have.
This brings us to our second area of clash which is about creating safer drinking habits.
Because the current because of the current drinking age, people usually get their first experience in college, either because this is when they turn twenty-one or because this is when their parents aren't looking the most, and this is when they can like start uncontrollably raging and getting really, really drunk.
But this is really bad, because they tend to drink too much around people who can't take care of them.
Because they don't actually have any prior experiences, they can't conceptualize what their limits are, and so they're just going to drink as much as possible, but also because it's been taboo for so long, they feel like they have to over-consume in order to make up for that lost time to a point.
And so with lower drinking age, we think that that first experience can occur safely in the house, with parents who can discuss and help you and talk about what those limits might look like and that way, by the time they get to college, they already have a frame of reference from which they can say, " okay, this is how much I need to get drunk, this is how drunk I want to be.
I can say no if I want to, " and other things like that.
We also think you create safer drinking habits because when you legalize it, even when you're young, you're much more capable of calling the cops because you're not afraid that you're going to get in trouble for it, and even if your parents might yell at you a bit, they can't like they they know that it's legal and therefore they can't get as upset as they can on our side of the house.
So we actually think you get a safer drinking habit that way as well because you're actually going to be able to ask for help.
We also think that the earlier that you're exposed, the sooner you can start feeling like you don't need to depend on it and the more you can get guidance through the process, because on their side of the house, you're just going to have college students encouraging each other.
On our side of the house, you at least get a like moment of reason in which your parents says you don't need to have that much, you can like access the same results with less.
For these reasons, proud to propose.