Don't ban breast implants.
Three main areas of clash, first on what the justification to ban is.
Because we think that governments are built on the idea of maximizing individual freedom, even when we don't understand why that freedom needs to be maximized.
Because we see that the good is something that cannot be defined objectively, rather every individual has a different definition that they adapt to to live their life under.
I think then what we use when we think about how we ought ban things is often whether it is going to hurt people besides the individual doing it.
Because then it would be impacting the self-actualization and the definition of the good for others in a negative manner, and this would be a weighing of competing rights claims.
However, we think that that it isn't enough detrimental to ourselves or even slightly detrimental to others to ban implants.
Like recognize that at most there are like sometimes side effects, but this is true for literally any surgery that you undergo, even the ones that are equally unnecessary such as when people get some such as when people want to get like aesthetic changes to facial structure, like nose jobs etcetera.
But we also think the problem is that we often allow things that are infinitely more harmful externalities to exist as well, because we prioritize individual freedom and choice.
The main example for this of course is cigarettes, where we see that even though secondhand smoke is incredibly damaging and can can literally cause long-term conditions in other people, then then we still like allow it to exist because we value people being able to use that so much.
We think it's important to have such a large standard because freedom is something that is like fundamental to the foundation of democracy, but moreover because it prevents the government to overstep into these kinds of gray areas.
We think that people know their own context the best, it is good for them to self-actualize as they please, even if it is something that we might see as bad in the abstract or in the theoretical.
According to tim's standards, nothing is consent, right?
Like he says that like " oh, because you're influenced by society, because you're influenced by the patriarchy ".
But he forgets that literally every decision that a woman ever makes in her life is influenced by a patriarchal society that they exist in.
So what we think what happens on his side of the house is you start you start to disallow women from being able to make any kind of decision, you don't consider anything to be consensual, because everything is going to be something that is a subject to your surroundings and to your peers, things from piercings to jobs, so on so forth, whether or not you're a stay-at-home mom.
Second though we want to talk about legal inconsistency.
Because we think that you don't do things like ban push up bras, chicken cutlets, etcetera.
You don't ban other cosmetic surgeries which is equally informed by society.
Like all of these things are still going to exist and are still going to spread the same pernicious ideals that tim is talking about, but now you just can't do the permanent thing that maybe someone really prefers to do, if they don't want to be spending money on chicken cutlets or wearing the same thing everyday.
We think that legal consistency is incredibly important because if your laws aren't being effective in reaching your goal, then it's not a good law, right?
Like if you're trying to stop people from crashing into each other at traffic lights, but there's a major loophole that says you can turn on red if like these conditions are met, then those crashes aren't being prevented.
Our third area of clash is about choice feminism.
Recognize that the patriarchy is going to exist on both sides the house.
The question is just how do we let women be while they are stuck within it.
We think it is the case that even if you are stuck in the patriarchy, you shouldn't be stuck in a loop of self-hate because that is allowing them to win, and you shouldn't have unnecessary obligations or rationalizations placed on you because of a mess that you didn't create.
So we think that insofar as women are choosing this and preferring it and living better lives because of it, it is not something that you ought be banning, in fact you would be hurting them more from banning it.
We think it is a legitimate choice to make regardless of how society informs it.
Proud to oppose.