The motion for today's debate is that we should disband NATO.
Three main areas of clash, first on how it has outlived its purpose.
Recognize that NATO was created to defend europe from russia during the cold war but the cold war is gone now and NATO is still somehow there.
This is bad because it creates unnecessary tension and animosity between russia and countries within the NATO alliance especially the US at a time when we think that this tension ought be alleviated and these countries should be working together in like the shared act of globalization.
We think that it prevents meaningful cooperation and easing of tensions when there's always going to be a treaty that russia sees as explicitly against it exclusionary of it and a mandate on whether or not it is a good country.
It like they see it as a threat to their hegemony and provides an incentive for russia to escalate even small conflicts in order to show that it is somehow bigger and better than other states.
We think that what NATO does is makes every conflict that russia has on its border with ukraine a principled stance the against what NATO means.
It also has become vastly expansionist in terms of the US influence into the east it mimics a lot of resource extraction that we see that china does in that it like profits massively from arms sales to new members that it recruits from eastern nations.
It's also used as a venue for US interests and policies a lot of a lot of secret armies that were supposedly for the preservation of democracy or for support for smaller nations actually ended up being intelligence operations for many years and this is something that has like vastly made countries distrust the US more but has also made it not actually like a bearer of true democracy rather just an enforcer of the US will on other smaller countries.
So we think that insofar as it like belays sovereignty that is also something that is bad.
Our second area of clash is about obligations.
I think there are a lot of like different things that are required by NATO that are really problematic at what they do for the outside world.
First one of the requirements of NATO is that countries have to have strong militaries that are capable of defending their neighbors.
This requires participating states to have developed militaries and it's bad because militaries pose threats to other countries which forces them to militarize in response.
So like countries might militarize originally because they're in NATO but then when countries that might be afraid of them on their border see them as a threat they have to militarize in response which necessarily creates tension and also makes any kind of conflict infinitely more likely to be exacerbated.
We thibk that at the end of the day, there are always two avenues that individual countries can take when there is a tense situation either they can have a violent response or they can have a diplomatic interaction.
The problem is when you have a like fully mobilized military and you think that you can win and that military acts first because it's scared of the other one's military, you're always precluding diplomacy and removing the incentive to have it because countries don't want to appear weak or leave openings for other countries to attack.
So we think whenever NATO exists you're always going to have more violent reactions and always have domino effects which actually brings us to like our second area of clash under this which is about creating the domino effect.
The other requirement of NATO is that all states are required to step in on each other's behalf should they be existentially threatened.
This means that small conflicts risk becoming world wars because because if one country is attacked, five more have to come to its to its help and all of the enemies of that country now have to help others and this creates an infinite effect of like allies helping allies as we saw in world war two.
We think that like requiring states to protect others or sorry world war one we think that requiring states to like come in after each other makes it really easy for non-state actors to stage attacks that look like states and create domino effects even when like actual states didn't take action because no one's actually pausing for long enough to think about what really happened.
We also think that it requires states to protect others at cost of their own citizens.
Soldiers die in conflicts between other states on behalf of other states which is bad because states should always fulfill obligations to their own citizens first due to things like the social contract.
For these reasons proud to propose.