The motion for today's debate is that we should cancel the speed limit.
What we mean by this is that we would return the speed limit to a state right, as it used to be in the united states.
State legislature can still impose certain limits on one-lane roads, however, on any highway or more than one-lane road, we would say that you have to have no limit at all, although we would stick with the whole, like, left being a passing lane, the farther left you go, the faster you want to go, whereas people who want to be slower can be in the right lane.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on why this is entirely unnecessary.
So recognize that in the united states, speed limits were first federally imposed, originally as a response to the nineteen seventy three oil crisis.
It wasn't because anyone thought that speeding was unsafe, and it wasn't because of any kind of accident statistics, rather it was because the like the middle eastern countries had tightened down on providing oil to the US because they didn't like their politics with israel, and oil had gotten really expensive.
So it was determined that the fifty-five area speed limit was the one in which they were most efficient with regards to their gas usage.
But we live in a really, really different world right now.
Technology is so far advanced that at any speed, we are much more efficient than back in those years of the oil crisis.
Also, even though safety was not really the original reason that this was instituted, if you're worried, car builds are now a lot safer.
The addition of extensive crumple zone, better airbag technology and sensing, and seatbelt detection, make it so that it it's actually very, very safe to drive, even at very fastest speeds, and even if you crash, you're actually much more likely to survive.
Moreover, we think that it's actually safer if people are driving with the mutual understanding of what your speed is going to be.
Because currently, there are some people who follow the rules and, like, stick to the listed speed limit, but there are many, many who speed whenever they think they won't get caught.
This creates a more dangerous situation because you're much more likely to end up with one person being very, very slow, one person is speeding, and then, suddenly, they don't they don't realize that there's someone in front or behind them who's going much slower or faster, and you end up crashing, or you have much more situations in which someone stops furiously, and someone who's driving faster behind them is going to hit them.
We think if you're specifically dividing these lanes, such as with the autobahn, where you have a section in which people who want to speed can sit, and then a section in which people who want to drive slowly can, you're actually going to end up with a much safer driving situation as a whole.
We also think that you actually help combat traffic, because a lot of the time what happens is that traffic is partially caused by some people going incredibly slowly on the road, and it's ended up being a bottleneck.
And we think that if you have a world in which the passing lane is actually used for passing, rather than having people there who are driving fifty-five, just for the sake of driving fifty-five, at the most busy time of the day, you're actually going to minimize traffic.
This is environmentally friendly because cars standing in a line, releasing emissions, is pretty bad for the environment.
Our second independent point is maximizing individual freedom.
The government has no business in speed limits.
There's no government interest, there is no external harms.
This is the government overstepping their boundaries and regulating individual movements, and we think that this is quite against what democracy actually means, right?
Like, democracy is about striving to be as free as possible, because the individual understands their context best and deserves to exercise their rights as they choose.
So we think what's actually going on is the government collects an unjust source of revenue by punishing those who happen to go above an arbitrary limit the government didn't have a right to set in the first place.
We also think it's overly rigid.
It doesn't account for individual circumstances, such as being late to an important event, or, like, maybe you have an interview, maybe your wife's giving birth.
Like, in the end, the policeman doesn't know that and neither does the government, and so you we think that as long as you're being safe, you ought be able to drive as fast as you want.
For these reasons, proud to propose.