The motion for today's debate is that we should ban targeted killing.
We think that this would be like an international law like on a government level because a lot of these are done a lot of targeted killings are conducted by like individual groups and their leaders rather than like individual citizens.
So we would ban this on like more of a higher level.
Two main areas of clash, first on why it is unethical and undemocratic.
Recognize that every individual's life has the same value and deserves the same rights insofar as there is no difference between me and you in the way that we reason with the world, in the way that we suffer, in the way that we are sentient individuals with some kind of intelligence with like mild arbitrary differences.
The problem with assassination is that it denies the individual a chance to defend innocence or a chance for a fair punishment if they are guilty which is one of those fundamental rights that everyone has an equal right to.
Like we think that insofar as every single person is created equal and we recognize that every single person deserves to have a fair trial, deserves to be able to say I'm not guilty in case they are guilty aren't guilty, we think that it's an unethical when certain individuals random groups get to decide well you in particular don't deserve this and we think that's bad.
This cedes the power over individual life to a tiny group or even one person with a certain political ideal.
Also recognize that it's often used to target political dissidents example the way that the israeli government would often target palestinian leaders for for death because they would like see them as threats to their government or threats to like their nation but the problem here is that there isn't actually someone to say that certain like the majority of political leanings are correct or incorrect and we especially don't think that a single entity gets to say that insofar as clearly that entity has a bias towards whatever political system they currently exist again around or whatever political idea they've already endorsed.
So we think that this is actually really bad when groups just decide that they understand justice better than the laws that are already laid out that the majority has already accepted do.
And we think that it's like bad that they deny society the right to rule on this individual and have their ideas in the marketplace like just like we think this also violates free speech to a really large extent in that it kills someone before they get out everything they've had to say and that's also really really bad.
Our second argument though is about creating instability and power vacuums.
Recognize this kind of thing is often used to target leaders of movements and once they are dead it creates a struggle for power often dominated by whoever has the most money and majoritarian fervor insofar as like we see this often times when we remove dictators we see that suddenly there's this like empty space they used to occupy and all of these groups want to occupy it so then you have oftentimes like violent interactions between maybe a military power and a rebel group and things like that.
This is bad because it prevents democratic processes from operating and also makes it a lot easier for extremists and power mongerers to take power because the citizens of that country are really scared at that moment so it's really easy for them to vote for a leader who can say look I will be strong I will protect you even if that strength comes from being oppressive or violent and so in a world where we like want to prevent extremists we prefer the like danger you know to the danger that you don't know insofar as like we have no idea how unpredictable or bad whoever takes power can be.
It also prevents any kind of future cooperation between parties once you've killed one of their leaders because the group doesn't trust you anymore and so it prolongs the original conflict because now you need a third party to come in and say look look we can all be friends I promise and oftentimes you don't even listen to them because you're not going to trust anyone who you don't believe you don't trust to use democratic processes so why would you even like engage with them in the first place if you know that she's going to kill you anyway.
This all feeds reciprocal violence like we think that a lot of the time what happens is like one group has someone killed and they're like okay we have to get them back and so they go against the other group again and this violence doesn't solve anything it just kills off more and more individuals which we think is always bad.
Proud to propose.