We should continue the subsidization of agriculture.
I think the problem is that tim spends almost his entire speech talking about how bad large farms are and how they would be affected if we stopped subsidizing but he forgets that smaller farms are also affected by subsidization and recognize that the purchasing power of those kinds of subsidies mean a lot more to small farms than large farms.
Recognize that large firms are going to be fine either way.
That subsidy won't be the bright line between being able to continue their businesses or not because they're already making a massive profit off of the fact that they're doing things like industrial farming.
The problem occurs when you have small farms for whom that difference is infinitely larger and can actually do things like put them out of business or prevent them from providing a quality product.
We think these smaller farms are always should always be valued more because they actually impact the individual families that make up the citizens of the united states who might have their well being tied up in these kinds of farms.
But they also impact regional communities that choose to to buy from these kinds of farms instead of buying from large conglomerates.
So when you have communities in rural parts of pennsylvania that buy their meat exclusively from small farms because those happen to be their neighbors, that's who you're harming and forcing to now start buying from large industrial corporations because now they don't have the alternative of their local farm on the on on gov's side of the house.
Two main arguments: first on national food security and independence.
Recognize that the only way to guarantee food independence is to provide the majority of the food that your country is going to eat and maintain the infrastructure for that to happen.
We see a lot of middle eastern countries struggling with this where because they have really bad climates and cannot grow enough of their own food, they have to rely on other countries selling food to them so that they can survive.
The problem occurs when you have things like massive droughts that hit countries that provide these kinds of imports usually or you have times where countries are boycotting you because of political actions you've taken that they don't like.
Suddenly, you're left with no one to import from and you're stuck with a population that still needs feeding.
Tim might have implied that the united states is going to be fine -ther way.
The problem here is that this just might not be true.
Recognize that the US has some of the most fertile land in the world.
So providing like we are someone who actively exports food to other countries.
Removing that kind of like facility for ourselves leaves very little for us to import from which raises the price globally of how much food is going to cost given that there are already countries in the status quo that import the majority of their food.
But also recognize that the US in terms of politics can often be incredibly nonpreferable for other countries as well.
Doing things like withdrawing from nato and other such actions often turn the political eye against us and relying on the idea that they won't choose to boycott us, isn't something that is completely possible.
We think the other issue on their side of the house however, is that this is something that prevents us from being helpless in conflict.
Like recognize that what happens on their side of the house is that we have to not piss countries off because if we do, then we're going to end up in a world in which we're not going to have any food.
So sure it might be cheaper to consistently important -nationally but it's also really dangerous and just simply not worth it.
Our second argument is about how it's a general good.
Tim says that there's a trade-off with government services but he has to prove that this is actually something that will happen.
Recognize that agricultural subsidies are really attractive politically because they are actually going to do things like boost republicans when they go back to their rural areas and things like that.
We also think job security becomes incredibly important on this side of the house because when you do things like stop agricultural subsidies that is mass amounts of individuals being fired from their positions.
Proud to oppose.