Don't ban telemarketing.
The problem is that tim's speech only contains one harm, and it's the idea that telemarketing is annoying and some people want to leave economics behind when they get home.
But these aren't meaningful arguments to ban things, otherwise, we'd have a reason to ban literally any media, since there's a chance that someone feels traumatized by it or literally any type of advertising, because it is an intrusion upon someone's personal life as they go about the rest of their day.
As long as tim remains this kind of inconsistency within his advocacy, we do not think that they can ever win this round because there has to be, within western liberal democracies, some kind of ban or some kind of barrier to banning anything that you want, because this is the only way that you can do things like preclude government overreach into the long term.
When you go about banning whatever you want for whatever reason you want, then when the political situation changes and a new ruler comes into play, you cannot predict these kinds of things will not become bans on like free speech or privacy or any other kind of thing that is actually important to the average citizen.
Two main arguments: first, on why there isn't a right to ban.
Sure, telemarketing is annoying, but that doesn't mean it's something we can have the right right to ban.
Otherwise, we'd also ban annoying radio ads, alarm clocks, and any number of other annoying stimuli.
The government can only ban things when they have a large overflow harm or a pertinent government interest, and neither of these exists for telemarketing, first, because annoyance is not a meaningful overflow harm.
I get really irritated when my younger sibling comes up and pokes me repeatedly while I'm in the middle of something else, but I don't get to ban them, right?
Like just because I am annoyed does not mean that I get to ban that thing that I am annoyed at.
Moreover, we just don't think it's true that you can't avoid telemarketing.
Right?
Like a lot of people simply do not pick up their phones when they see it is a number they do not recognize.
This is a really easy way to avoid telemarketing, and it is just not the case that anyone really has to pick up the phone when it's a number they don't know, especially since anyone useful or necessary is going to leave a voice message anyway.
But moreover, if anything, there's a government interest in keeping telemarketing alive since it is something that contributes to the economy, provides jobs, and does similar things that are generally positive for the government.
He says that it's really invasive, but like this just like isn't true, right?
Like at the point that anybody can get my phone number and call me, we don't think that your phone is a private sphere, right?
It is something that is actively oftentimes shared online, something you share with employers.
Like it's not something that is free from these kinds of capitalistic pressures, and it's definitely not more invasive than things like targeted ads that literally pop up while you are browsing the internet, like doing things that are oftentimes much more personal than whatever you do like with your home phone, right?
Like the idea that you want to leave the economic sector is also nonsense.
Like you can still disconnect without avoiding all market influences.
In fact, we think that right now you literally can't avoid all market influences.
If you're watching television, or surfing the web, or literally anything, like you're going to get advertisements for you.
So as long as those things aren't being banned, we don't think that tim gets to ban things like telemarketing.
We also just think that he's wrong about not being able to opt out.
We already told you about how you can do things like not pick up the phone if you don't recognize the number, but you can also do things like put yourself on do not call lists, so we just don't understand where the uniqueness that allows tim to ban this is.
Our second argument is about a loss of jobs.
Telemarketing produces thousands of jobs that people rely on for money, and we think that that's pretty valuable for those people.
And if telemarketing does get banned, we don't think there's something that readily replaces those jobs, right?
Like especially because we live in a society where there are less and less jobs that don't require an education.
So things like telemarketing are actually some of the last areas in which someone who didn't go to college can still find a position for themselves.
That is pretty valuable in and of itself, probably outweighs the majority of the personal harms that tim brings up.
Proud to oppose.