We shouldn't abolish term limits.
Danny says that it's good to have someone in power for more than one term, and we're fine with that, but what we're not saying is that we're not saying that you have to change out every term.
Like we think that we're fine with term limits of two or three or four terms and we're fine with that it's just about having an end point that danny doesn't have.
We also think that the chance that you might have an election during wartime isn't worth compromising democracy as a whole since this just doesn't happen very often, but also you can have emergency protocols that extend someone's term until the conflict calms down.
Like we just think that all of the situations that danny comes up with in which having someone in power for multiple terms beyond the limit is beneficial are context dependent rare situations that we can adjust for as necessary.
This debate shouldn't be about one time situation necessities, rather it should be about the broad principle of whether or not we think that term limits are a good idea and we think that they are.
Two main arguments, first on promoting democracy.
Democracy is about letting the individuals in a country have an active voice in the representatives that politically impact them.
And on face this might look like not having term limits in order to maximize choice as danny says, but he forgets that having incumbents rerun ad infinitum pushes out other candidates and often results in individuals having less choices in the long term.
It also allows incumbents to accumulate money from special interest groups and gather connections within politics that often make them turn towards representing special interests more than they represent the people.
And this is really bad because it means that the populace isn't actually being served.
The people that they're electing aren't working in their best interest and it is not the case that they are actually being like appreciated or listened to within the democracy.
We're fine with compromising one aspect of democracy on the mechanical level in order to maximize democracy on the impact level ie sure maybe this is undemocratic just like technically and definitionaly but insofar as it achieves more democratic impacts and allowing individuals to actually choose people who are working for their interests rather than for special interests than we think that we could still win the round on that.
Our second argument is about injecting fresh blood.
We think that incumbents get complacent.
They know that they have a high chance of getting reelected every time that they run so they try a lot less hard to impress the populace.
They also don't have an incentive to try out any radical but helpful policies because they don't have a reason to risk not getting reelected, like higher social welfare spending or changing educational policies dramatically.
Because even if this might be popular with some percentage of their electorate or even the majority of it, they're worried about the potential backlash from other groups that would prevent them from getting reelected.
A lack of term limits actively contributes to gridlock and not getting anything done by keeping a body in governance that doesn't have a real incentive to get anything done since their jobs are never really on the line.
Moreover it incentivizes groups just collect special interests because this is where the money comes from so they have the ability to rerun over and over again and just win easily based on the millions of dollars that they accumulate from non like individual groups but rather from special interests like pharma companies or gun lobbyists and similar groups.
We also think that new candidates just tend to be better.
They're more in touch with current issues, they have to work a lot harder to get elected, and they also haven't been exhausted by politics yet in the same way that older incumbents are.
Like we think there's something to be said about the fact that people who have more recently come in from public sectors or like the private sector even or people who are just like more recently graduated are just individuals who are more in touch with the actual population and have spent less time in these spheres that tend to corrupt these older incumbents.
We also just think that creating spaces for these people are really important.
Like we think a lot of individuals just don't run for office in the first place because they are afraid of the fact that there are these never ending incumbents that are likely to win either way and we think is actually cuts out a lot of people who could be really beneficial in politics in the first place.
Like people who are really motivated to help and like serve the population and never get the chance to.
Proud to oppose.