We should not be disbanding the united nations.
I think the only thing you're going to keep in mind in the course of this round is that just because something is broken doesn't mean you get rid of it.
Rather if a system is functional at its core and it's just the edges that are broken or a part that is broken you can fix those components without disbanding the whole thing.
So as long as we show you that the united nations as a whole can do good has the potential to do good maybe it has done good in the past and has just got a few hiccups then we think that we already win this round because it's always going to be infinitely easier to fix an existing institution rather than getting together the political will and in this case the sheer number of countries that would be required to recreate the system from scratch.
So in the end our only goal here is to show you that there's no alternative and at that point we've already won.
Three main areas of clash.
First on the fact that there is no alternative.
Because what gov never addresses is what happens when you get rid of the united station the united nations.
We think that it's really important to keep in mind that we need a facilitative space for different countries to come together and be able to communicate without necessarily having to take the first step.
In a world in which politics is very like heavy within our political systems in which who calls first can be a sign of weakness we think it's important to create a neutral space in which countries don't have to feel like they're giving in if they're looking to compromise.
And I think the only place that you're going to get this is in a system like the united nations because otherwise no one's going to start negotiations no one is going to recognize a problem because it's always costly politically to do so.
And it always is difficult to do so.
Second though keep in mind that we need these peacekeeping forces up so first these peacekeeping forces cannot exist without the united nations because you're not going to get a situation in which multiple countries are going to be so effectively contributing funds to the same cause just because each of these countries have their own political issues that they have to focus on and so beat like donating something donating to a peacekeeping force only occurs if there is some kind of requirement to do so.
And so let's look at all the good that they have done situation such as liberia mozambique macedonia were all unstable regimes in which UN peacekeeping forces facilitated the creation of democracy and we think that the UN does this really effectively is advocate for democratic institutions in a world where we're seeing more and more fascism take hold.
And if you get rid of it we're just unsure on who takes over the advocacy we think that you have a few major power players and all of them have perverse incentives to take advantage of smaller countries and we think the only time even if it is at its core powered by these countries but the only time in which you get to overstep them a little bit is in a situation like the united nations where at least the small countries get some kind of vote because otherwise china is just going to do whatever it wants and so is the US.
But the only way in which smaller countries get to say this is no longer all right and the only place in where they even get a voice to do so is at the UN.
Our second area of clash has to do with what with if you don't have the UN you're not going to have a united front against humanitarian violations.
So we've seen over the past where the UN has brought sanctions against countries' violations they've brought to light that these violations are existing in the first place and we think that even if you disagree with how much or how little they've done in this it's important that they let these countries know that they're watching.
It puts political pressure even without using physical force that says hey we're a large conglomeration of your neighbors that could beat you up if we wanted to so maybe start behaving.
And so we think that oftentimes the UN functions to keep peace without ever deploying force which is something no one country can accomplish because it simply doesn't have the manpower to do so.
And then our third like very quick independent point is that we think that the only way you prevent that you prevent fascist or dictatorial takeover is when there's some kind of like global institution that says we are specifically created to stop that from happening like we see more and more in recent time as china make strides into africa that large countries will put will put aside humanitarian needs in order to fill their own pockets and we need to check on them.
For these reasons proud to oppose.