The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish nuclear weapons.
We think this is a normative debate where we would prefer a world without any kind of nuclear weapons ie every country had abolished them like presumably at lick same or similar times.
Three main areas of clash, first about why it's not a power that any state could have or whatever habits use justified.
Recognize that the potential for harm is absurdly high.
Even a small nuke carries that carries like affects cross generationally and across international lines insofar as the waste is both far spreading on things like wind currents but also deep reaching by corrupting individuals DNA and affecting that like which very bases like creates their biology.
Recognize that this harm can literally never be justified in the immediate sense recognize that innocents are always going to be harmed because even if you're attempting to bomb a military base, the nuclear radius affects civilians at all times.
We also think that it's like oftentimes a weapon specifically used against civilians.
I think if we look at the examples of like nagasaki and hiroshima, these were primarily cities that were not war torn and not like particularly heavily involved or influential rather they were just like heavily populated so it really hurt the japanese government.
But even if you don't buy that, it also hurts the future innocents who truly didn't have anything to do with the conflict because maybe opp will come up here and they'll be like but look these people were implicitly responding responsible by supporting the regime the problem then becomes of the children of those individuals were arbitrarily born into a set of circumstances that they never got to mold and never had any control over.
What this means is that they are truly innocent in the sense that they had nothing to do with the conflict and definitely don't deserve to be harmed, but the problem is that because nuclear waste damages DNA that gets passed onto future generations you're necessarily creating a world in which even those innocents are doomed to continue to suffer for whatever had happened in generations previously.
It also just corrupts the general location, I think like we still cannot have housing and cannot have people in the area where chernobyl occurred because the effects are so deep reaching that it was too dangerous for anyone to inhabit that area so like videos taken now show completely wild areas.
So even if you don't buy that it can be very harmful to people, it can wipe out entire areas where people could live as well.
We think that this like shows you that it's a tool that should never be used.
But our second area of clash is about eliminating the risk of destruction.
Recognize the nukes could be useful if they were absolutely controlled.
The problem is that the united states has no way of controlling countries like north korea or russia like less rational groups that could very easily use nukes without considering external harms or not abiding by mutually assured destruction agreements.
I think the fact that like kim jong un's twitter war could literally destroy the world is a risk that is never worth taking under your taking upon yourself and so is like definitely something that we would prefer to avoid even if it means also disadvantaging large western democratic countries like the united states, like england, like like france and so I think like at the point that there's always going to be a group that is uncontrollable and unpredictable we would prefer a world in which they never get a hold of nuclear power.
But our third independent area of clash is about how it creates power imbalances because recognize that no one country auto deserves to be able to exert power over another.
The problem is that nuclear power necessarily creates a massive asymmetry of power where smaller and less militarily advanced countries live under coercive shower shadows of other and bigger countries.
They can be threatened into compliance which shouldn't be allowed.
I think it's like a very big problem the moment like russia can just exert all of this power over the ukraine because they have nuclear power but ukraine doesn't and so they like they have very little bargaining or leveraging power against these larger individuals which is necessarily oppressive and undemocratic.
For these reasons proud to propose.