Don't close guantanamo.
Three main arguments, first on the false sense of solvency.
Sure danny is right that some of the actions occurring at guantanamo are objectively immoral, but guantanamo is just one example of the kind of detention centers the united states has all over the world.
It will not work just to close this one.
What we have to do is advocate for broad based political changes and legal changes that force the united states not to re-open a different kind of guantanamo.
We're not to repeat the behaviors that occur at guantanamo and other centers.
Closing guantanamo all it does is make it so that people think the problem is solved when in reality everyone who used to be there just gets sent to an equivalent camp off the coast or somewhere in another country.
It means you lose political capital to argue for better laws regulating all detention centers since people will now turn their attention to other issues since they think that this one is solved.
And we actually think that this is a really big deal, right?
Because right now there's a lot of momentum behind arguing against guantanamo and similar detention centers.
And part of the reason that this kind of thing gets to keep going is because guantanamo continues to remain open.
The second it closes we just decide that everything is better even though the underlying behaviors are still legal.
So we think in general the movement needs to pivot and starts advocating for legal and political changes rather than just for the physical action of closing down one center.
Our second argument is that there is some necessity.
Danny says that other countries are angry.
First we think the the only country that might be angry is cuba and we're fine with implementing a better strategy with which we pay cuba for the land or do something to reimburse them.
But we think that generally cuba has allowed us to continue existing there because there aren't that upset.
Moreover we think that other countries also have immoral detention centers.
Even if they dislike guantanamo there's an international understanding of its necessity and of the right of individual nations to deal with prisoners of war and to deal with dangerous terrorist situations as they need to.
Also recognize that most of the people at guantanamo aren't innocent.
Like yeah we should have better due process but plenty of people there are confirmed terrorists and other dangerous entities who need to be isolated from society.
We also just think that the in that they have information that the US government needs to protect other citizens and are also individuals who tend to be too dangerous for domestic prisons.
So even though they definitely deserve better treatment, we think at the point that the individuals at guantanamo are people who probably wouldn't be able to be kept anywhere else accept at a similar sort of facility, we don't think that you can just shut it down.
Our third argument is about political backlash.
Guantanamo makes a lot of people feel more secure because they know that there's a center that deals with those who are a threat to the united states.
If we were to close it down, there would be a lot more conservative members of the united states population who would be incredibly angry and they would respond to by using this anger to elect more extremist politicians and having more islamophobia because this is what would return that sense of security.
As being like look this person is going to keep us safe.
This is rhetoric that we often heard during donald trump's election when people were like look how unsafe we have gotten, there's refugee crises, like strangers are coming in.
We need someone who takes hardline stances on policy so that we aren't harmed by these occurrences and we think that closing guantanamo is likely to elicit a very similar reaction because it would signal to these individuals that the united states is no longer standing as a protectorate but rather with these kind of groups of these kind of people that were previously kept in guantanamo are just free to wander and free to harm.
Proud to oppose.