The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the national security council's veto in the UN.
Two many areas of clash, the first in on representation of other nations, and their desires.
We think, the spirit of the UN was to create a global community, in which people get to voice their concerns in a peaceful manner and pass resolutions, that promote fairness, legality, and peace, among nations.
The the the problem is, that in order to create discourse among nations you first have to have equality, and currently the system is incredibly unequal and unfair, insofar as five nations effectively control which resolutions will get passed, and which don't.
We think that global acts should reflect other majority desires.
Recognize that the UN works massively similarly to the way that the united states works, in in so far as every state gets an amount of representatives, and in the end the constituency is are the people of the nation, and all of their voices ought be represented in the way that we pass policy.
We would think it would be incredibly unfair, if texas, california, ohio, and missouri, got veto votes, just because maybe they were bigger, or they were around first, because just because you're around first, and just because you're bigger, does not mean that other people's voices do not matter, and does not mean that, if there is a majority overwhelming you, the act should not pass.
We think that, in the end, what ought happen in the in the UN is very similar to the way that we work within democratic society, but this time your constituency is the world, and the representatives are those sent to the UN.
Those representatives need to be able to pass policy that the majority agrees with, not just the permanent five.
More than this, we think that the original reasons no longer stand.
Originally, the permanent five were those that had the biggest nuclear interests, and were the most developed with regards to nuclear technology.
But this is no longer the case.
At the point that most countries are now involved in nuclear tech, we think most of them ought also get more of a say on the UN security council.
Second to this though, another often used like piece of rhetoric, for why we ought to keep the UN veto, is that because these groups pay more money, they should get more of a say.
The problem with this is that this isn't the case anymore.
Shirt the US technically pays the most, but they haven't paid their dues in a couple of years now.
At the point that they're not being fiscally responsible, they definitely don't deserve a veto.
More than this though, countries like japan and germany pay more than most of the permanent five, but still don't have a veto.
At the point that there's no reason for these countries to remain singled out as vetoers, we think the veto ought be abolished.
Second area of clash has to do with why we think this is used to support selfish interests.
In situations where there is conflict, and obviously something must be done, resolutions often do not get passed, because the permanent five have special interest tied into this.
This is why, for years, when the UN when the UN council was trying to pass resolutions against israel, US would veto, because they were allies and they didn't want this happening.
Other examples include any kind of resolution regarding china and taiwan, obviously china will not allow for them to be regulated, when they are one of the vetoers, and can just say no to the resolution.
We think the only way, in which you get any kind of accountability for these larger states, is by allowing the UN to take actions against them, which is only possible when you remove their veto power.
More in this, we think that we think that the veto power is often used to punish these countries, other countries.
Take the example of china, when they wouldn't allow peacekeeping forces to be sent to guatemala or macedonia, because of of their support of taiwan.
At the point that this is this is often used in ways that only benefits these permanent five countries, and does not benefit everyone else, and does not reflect the wishes of everyone else, we think it ought be abolished.
More than this though, we think that it often stifles discourse.
A lot of stuff just never gets discussed, because other countries know that it will get vetoed.
For these reasons, proud to propose.