Don't subsidize recycling.
What we mean by this is that we think that anything that exists in the status quo we know that individual states occasionally choose to subsidize recycling we are fine with.
I think the clarification here is we don't think that we ought be spending any additional money subsidizing recycling.
Two main areas of clash, first on why we can just spend that money elsewhere and why that's more useful.
Recognize first and foremost that we think that government has a tier of obligation ie there are certain things that the government needs to provide for the general population.
This includes protecting their rights from infringement whether it's by the government or by other entities.
So laws against prohibiting freedom of speech on in public spaces so on so forth enforcement of corporate regulations all of that would be government obligation protection but we also think that it has these obligations in a certain hierarchy ie it's probably more important to fulfill obligations that are more central to individuals' needs and lives than it is to do things that are further away from it.
There are a lot of individuals in the united states right now who don't have homes, who don't have jobs, don't have enough food, and the list goes on.
We think that recycling, although important, is always going to be peripheral issue to the things that are currently happening in the status quo that are a lot more important.
So these millions of dollars that are likely to be spent on mandating different kind of legislature in specific areas and making sure that everybody has access to recycling might be a good thing to do in general but certainly isn't the first priority and that money is fungible.
So we would prefer if instead of going into recycling we did things like put that money into homeless shelters, like put that money into food stamps, things that essentially are also government obligations and government provisions but are much more necessary to the individual.
This also just make sense on a personal philosophical framework sense.
Like if I'm a person who was a choice between recycling or eating dinner it's probably more important that I eat dinner if only because if there are enough missed dinners I'm going to be dead but also because me missing dinner affects how I perform in the rest of my life so people it's like been shown that children who go to bed hungry are always going to be performing worse in school than those who don't.
Insofar as that is the way in which we create a stable fundamental society, we think the government always has to put money that they have excess into that.
We also think that if we look at the makeup of the current government which is massively republican, you're infinitely more likely to have this money coming out of things that are more necessary.
We see them being willing to cut things like the SNAP program which provides food stamps to families in need and put that money straight into doing things like protecting guns or the military.
Insofar as this is always going to come off at a trade off we just don't think that recycling is important enough to risk other people for it.
Maybe in the future there like will be a difference and the government will be different and all of these things won't be as much at risk like maybe we'll stop spending forty percent of our government funds on the military but that is not the world that we live in the status quo and we have to be cognizant of that.
Our second area of clash is just about why this isn't the way to do it.
We think that subsidization only is going to ultimately be something that gets swallowed up by the companies who provide the service of like facilitating recycling.
So what happenes on their side of the house is that the consumer still has to pay the same but the company now just gets to recycle at a lower cost to themselves, which we don't think actually helps anybody, right?
We think that there are other ways to make sure that recycling is easily accessible.
Recognize that a lot of states currently provide recycling bins with their trash cans and although there might be a fee for them, this fee goes along with the fact that the fee that people pay to have their trash taken away in the first place.
We think mandating things like that on a state level would be infinitely more effective because that wouldn't get swallowed up by larger companies but also would just circumvent this entire debate so we're unclear on why we're just not doing that.
Proud to oppose.