The motion for today's debate is that we shouldn't subsidize agriculture.
By this, by we, we mean the united states, and basically what this would look like is that we would end any programs that subsidize farmland, seeds, or any continual subsidies for being a farmer, such as like easier tax breaks and loans.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why the subsidies harm start-ups and poor farmers.
Even with subsidies, it is very expensive to start a farm, which means that anyone that is going to do so has to have a lot of capital at the beginning to take advantage of the subsidies in the first place.
And a lot of the subsidies only become accessible after you've started a farm or come in the form of loans which require you to have a good enough credit rating and are often a very tricky thing for people to be able to swallow or consider themselves capable of taking out.
What this means is that poor farmers or want-to-be farmers are actually harmed since they can't access the start-up capital or even if they do, do not get as much benefit from the subsidies in order to challenge previous existing corporate monopolies.
More than this, if they they have to now combat these richer corporate farms that have been benefiting from the subsidies for much longer and due to size, can benefit from more of them from more of them.
What this does is it often forces smaller farms out because they get much less access to the subsidies in the first place, whereas without the subsidies, corporations will show less interest in agriculture, and farming monopolies are less likely to occur.
It also gives more power to the consumer because without subsidies, choices to boycott or buy from someone else have much more of an impact.
Currently what happens is that large corporate farms that are less liked by consumers can continue to float through on profits, because the subsidies make it so that certain consumers leaving or choosing other brands does not affect them in a way that affects their like their profit line.
But in our world, when you don't have these subsidies, the decision to not buy from a corporation can actively harm their profits because the subsidies no longer exist, and it means a lot more when consumers en masse choose to buy from a more local or a smaller farmer.
Our second area of clash is why it harms developing countries in the global economy.
When the united states subsidizes agriculture, they make it much cheaper than what other countries can produce agricultural goods for.
This forces other countries to purchase produce from the united states, and this in itself has many bad impacts.
First, it creates underdevelopment personal agriculture sectors in these countries and a reliance on the US goods.
Because they're buying from the US, governments don't invest in their own country's farming because they don't have an incentive to.
It's cheaper for them to buy from the united states and so, they don't have to like invest in their own or like because it's actually in doesn't become financially feasible to invest in their own in this at the same time.
This long term ties them to the US because even if the price skyrockets, they wouldn't have the infrastructure to produce their own.
We think this is incredibly problematic because because we want these countries to be able to function independently of large western powers and because, in the end, we also want these countries to be spending more of their money investing in their own sectors, since these are the sectors that can actually grow and power their economy.
You don't get economic growth from continually importing your goods because this isn't these are supplied by people who are working in other countries, so you're not actually paying wages for those who are for your own citizens, and you're creating reliances that can often be incredibly unstable.
This brings us to our second harmful impact which is that it harms their economies of these nations.
Agriculture provides an economic boost and trade, and it is an incredibly stable economic impetus, because there's always a constant demand for food.
And oftentimes, individual countries with different climates can carve out niches for specific fruits.
So, what this means is that when you don't have a good agricultural sector, you're actually doing yourself an economic disservice.
It also means that when you have a long-term dependency on other countries, even if they have sudden shifts in the economy, you still have to move along with them, which is economically problematic.
For these reasons, proud to propose.