Assisted suicide shouldn't be a criminal offense.
First, I think that we've accepted that we can specifically discuss those who are terminally ill and have a mental health check and we're talking about the doctors or the professionals who assist suicide.
Like we had doctor death a few years ago who did this.
I don't think that we're talking about groups of individuals where you they just like ask their friend to help them commit suicide and that friend happened to help, like we think in those situations very clearly we can consider this akin to murder.
But we think that what we're talking about is the circumstances in which individuals have gone through all of the legal methods, have like made sure that they're of sound mind, and really have made this consensual decision they don't want to exist anymore.
Two main arguments, first on why choosing your own death is a right.
Recognize first and foremost that the individual's body is a possession of the individual who controls it.
There is no higher power, unless you are religious, who controls who like is in charge or who you owe your body and soul to and if you are religious then we assume you're not making this decision.
So I think the majority of individuals who do choose assisted suicide are those who don't consider that to be the case.
Recognize that you as a person provably can feel, can hurt, and can evaluate whether or not the life that you currently live is one that you want to continue existing in.
Like fundamentally we think that your body, your rules is something that is incredibly important especially in times of life or death because no one else can imagine the suffering that you are going through that you would want to end your life in the first place.
We think the majority of people really don't want to die.
We think even those who are deeply depressed tend to struggle with the actual act of committing suicide because it is something that is so diametrically opposed to human nature that it hurts us to take those actions in the first place.
We think the problem with side government is that they assume that the person cannot rightfully or rationally make this decision, but we think if anything it cannot be rightfully made the decision to paternalize these people because those people are the only ones who can actually understand what they are going through.
We think that people shouldn't be forced to exist in suffering.
Things like being in chronic pain, being a burden on your family, like going to die anyway just three months later and in much worse condition, these things should qualify the individual to choose when their death happens rather than having death happen to them in an uncontrollable matter that makes them incredibly unhappy and hurts them.
Like insofar as it's just a question of how, not a question of when one will die, we think that that person ought be able to determine that in a final act of control.
But our second argument is about preventing pragmatically bad suicides.
Recognize that a lot of individuals who want to go through an assisted suicide are those who are likely have set their minds on dying either way.
What this means is that this is someone who's if they are denied an assisted suicide is likely to do something like go home and swallow a lot of pills or find a gun or things like that.
And we think that that's incredibly dangerous because it is likely to impact individuals who happen to be in that area.
So a child who happens to find those pills before the adult takes care of them or someone who has to find you after you've committed suicide rather than just the hospital taking care of your body.
These kinds of things cause a lot more damage than simply allowing an individual to leave their life as they choose and as they desire and we think that minimizing that harm both on themselves and on others is infinitely more important than sticking to some abstract religious philosophical way of thinking about the sanctity of one's life.
We think that we want to normalize safe access so that individuals don't feel the need to do really dangerous things that put themselves or their loved ones in in danger or in even more pain than they are in the status quo.
Proud to oppose.