We should end solitary confinement.
First, I think the clarifying model here is that we don't think that solitary confinement should be used as a punishment anymore.
We think that if a prisoner was to ask to be solitary confined or completely isolated because they're afraid for their own safety or something similar, that is like a consensual thing that we can honor, right?
Like we can agree to do what that person wants but there should never be a situation in which the jail or the government says: we're going to take this person against their will, put them in this dark box with like nothing in the room and no interaction of people for however much time we designate.
That is the solitary confinement we want to be stopping.
Two main arguments, first on cruel and unusual punishment.
The united states constitution protects people against cruel and unusual punishment because we realize that some fundamental human rights should remain, even when the person has done wrong, that even someone who was done terrible things should not be treated too badly because it makes us just as bad as whatever crime that person committed, because we can recognize humanity even when the person who committed the crime didn't recognize humanity.
Solitary confinement is the definition of cruel and unusual punishment.
It doesn't serve a real purpose.
It's literally just meant to crush someone's psyche into submission and intimidate them and make them scared of it happening again.
Numerous studies have been done on this, and it's been shown that it is absurdly bad for the people who go through it.
There are other ways to punish someone that don't involve psychological torture, like taking away some privilege that other people might receive, like not letting them go outside for a couple of days, or making them clean up at like the cafeteria afterwards, like any number of things you can come up with that can punish someone without psychologically torturing them and scarring them for the rest of their life.
Doing solitary confinement is the choice on the part of the prison system to be the most cruel regardless of the fact that they don't have to be, and the governments need to protect prisoners from this.
This is especially true since, in general, prisoners are a vulnerable class.
Regardless of the fact that they committed a crime at some point, these are people who, once they are in jail, are completely dependent on the state and have no way of controlling their own lives, or desires, or preferences.
So we need to have those extra protections, because it's really easy to take advantage of someone who has no resources, who is locked in the same space.
This is why we do things like put limits on the kinds of experiments medically that can be done on prisoners, because we recognize that their ability to consent out of those are significantly limited as compared to the average person, and we need to protect them from that.
Our second argument is about why solitary confinement is impractical.
First, it just literally doesn't work, right?
You have more recidivism because solitary confinement really messes people up.
They just end up resenting the system more and are more likely to act out against it.
Solitary confinement doesn't help rehabilitate anyone.
It doesn't serve any function since prison already isolates someone from society.
And you can also recognize that you can also isolate someone from the rest of the prison population without putting them into solitary confinement, right?
Like you can put them into a separate jail cell, or you can make them sit in like a specific area that keeps them around people but doesn't put them in solitary confinement and doesn't put them in the conditions that specifically make solitary confinement so traumatizing.
So like insofar as it doesn't accomplish what the prison wants it accomplish, we just don't think it should exist on that basis alone, but also it's really expensive.
Like, it requires separate quarters and separate guards.
It takes up space where you could have housed multiple inmates in that same area, and we think that that kind of thing is just not something we need in the prison at the point that it's like an active problem that prisoners aren't getting proper food or proper other kinds of care, and the money could just go there instead, which we think is always better.
Proud to propose.