The problem with what government says in this debate is that they're presuming that homeopathy is always bad.
This isn't the case though.
A lot of the time, even even if homeopathy isn't proven through scientific means, this is more because these things have never been brought into a laboratory in the first place.
What we tell you is that homeopathy is often a less invasive alternative, that even if less effective, is still helpful to the people who choose to use it.
Moreover, we think that homeopathy is often used by very specific groups of people: those who are religious, those who are mistrustful of hospital systems and prefer to handle their stuff at home, because they don't know what the doctor is injecting in them.
We think in situations such as this, if you ban homeopathy, people who were using it are going to opt to use nothing rather than going to a hospital.
Because in the end, if it is a core part of my religious belief, as it is with jehovah's witnesses, that it is ungodly for something to cut open my body or enter my body from someone else, all this means is that if you ban homeopathic remedies that I might be allowed to use, I simply will use nothing, will suffer more, and die faster.
But more than this, we just think it's bad that people who have traditionally, for years and years, been societally taught to mistrust hospitals, because these groups of people have literally been part of studies where when they go to hospitals, they are forcibly sterilized or injected with experimental diseases, ought not be forced to face these kinds of fears when they can choose an alternative at home.
Two main areas of clash with intersperse rebuttal, first on autonomy and personal choice.
We think that people can evaluate themselves better than others can.
This is why we frown on government paternalization.
Because even if it is a well-known fact that cigarettes are harmful, we recognize that it is up to us to choose whether they are harmful harmful so much that we we we think that it is bad enough that it outweighs the benefits.
The problem with that will is with what will is saying is that he's setting standards based on the external harms.
He's saying, " but what about the children? "
.
The problem with this is that parents already get to make decisions for children that can be incredibly harmful.
Decisions as simple as where these people go to school and whether or not they have to stay in certain programs can also greatly impede someone's mental health, esteem, should they be going to a harmful environment, and future career path.
We think at the point that we already allow children already allow parents to make massive decisions on the part of their children, we don't think that decisions based in medical care are so much so different, especially since the issue is that they are specifically arbitrating this on the type of medical care.
But the problem is that if I take my child into a hospital as a parent, I still get to make the decision between two treatments for them.
Will had to attack the basis of homeopathy itself, not the basis of how parents choose to treat their children.
Then he's like, taxpayers, taxpayers have to pay too much money.
But there's not actually a link here, right?
He never explains to us why, because people are using homeopathy, this lands on the backs of taxpayers.
If anything, it sounds to me like the fact that people are taking their business out of hospitals and not using taxpayer money and rather instead, opting for for treatments uncovered by insurance or other form of taxpayer money.
That they have to pay for out of pocket means that, on our side of the house, the taxpayers pay less.
We think that in the end, unless they're also going to stop cigarette use, where secondhand smoke also has massive external harms, especially to dependents or children that live with these people, then they don't have a case on their side of the house.
Our second independent point is about how the hospital system is exploitative and profit-driven.
We think that hospitals require patients to be sick and require chronic illnesses to continue pumping out treatments and continue functioning.
What this means is that while your homeopathic illnesses are not always expensive, even though will tells you they are, this is just not true.
A lot of traditional treatments that come from things like laying hands, or like or like spiritual leaders or healers, are very cheap and provided to the community around them.
It means that people can actually save their money when choosing to use homeopathic homeopathy instead.
We tell you that the problem with going to hospitals is that there's always a chance they cannot help you, in the same way that homeopathy can't always help you.
It's just a choice of whether or not where you want to put your money.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.