Don't have mandatory organ donation.
James talks about giving people compensation for donation.
We're perfectly fine with creating an organ market where people can willingly sell their organs, we're just not fine with mandating it.
Two main arguments, first on individual autonomy.
We live in a nation that values people having the freedom to choose what happens to their bodies.
There are plenty of things that would make society better off that we don't do because we care about the underlying personal freedom more.
Like things like cigarettes, which objectively make society worse off and have massive overflow harms, still don't get banned because we recognize that we prefer the people's freedom to choose to use them more than we prefer making society objectively better off.
Organ donation is a really big deal that directly impacts the long term health and abilities of the human body.
We think that the individual needs to be able to make their own decision about it even if the action would objectively make the rest of society better off simply because of how large the impacts are on them and because the possession of that organ is their own initially.
This would be like the government coming into your home, stealing all of your furniture, and redistributing it and then being like look we did a better thing for society because all of these people had less furniture than you.
This would still be wrong though, you still worked for that furniture and was still yours.
The government had no right to go in and redistribute it without your consent.
Similarly your body is your own.
The government has no right to force you to give away parts of it to someone else even if that person desperately needs it more than you do.
Our second argument is about the overstep of government.
You can't just assert the obligation on to every citizen to step in and save other people's lives at the cost of their own preferences, health, and quality of life.
Especially since most people who are in need of organs won't die without them, they're just going to have a decreased own quality of life.
People who are at the top of the organ donation list because they will die without an organ are going to get one on both sides of this debate.
The rest of the people will be fine.
It is problematic to value one person who needs the organ above the people who have to provide them, especially since people have perfectly valid reasons not to want to donate.
Discomfort and pain isn't just a small thing even though james pretends it is.
Surgery is a really big deal and there are often complications that can affect you for the rest of your life.
But also losing your liver or kidney or other tissue sample forever impacts your quality of life.
The way that you eat, the way that you exercise, the way that you feel on a daily basis.
All of this changes the moment you lose a like component of you that have this kind of rule.
James worries about ethics but we think that it's more important that it is unethical to force this on people than it could ever be important to like ethically source source organs for others.
He says that we won't convince people to give them away for free so we need the government to step in, but this just denies the fact that giving them away for free is literally the system that we have relied on for decades that has been working pretty well.
Because small organs like tissue samples and bone marrow and blood, those things people donate relatively regularly and relatively freely because it doesn't come at a high cost to them but otherwise people will often donate organs when there's a death but they will also donate organs when like it's someone who they care about or someone close to them or they're organizing a three way trade.
Like it's not the case that we're just not getting any organs from living samples right now.
Moreover we just think that soon we'll be able to grow organs via stem cells anyway so this whole discussion becomes fairly obsolete.
Proud to oppose.