Don't subsidize investigative journalism.
Tim and I agree on the majority of the positives that investigative journalism does.
What we don't agree on is whether or not those benefits go away once the government starts funding them because tim keeps talking about how look this money just isn't going to be tied to anything you'll just get a flat check based on your success but he forgets exactly how wishy washy government funding can be.
It's not as if they take away funding and tell you this is because you didn't like put up the stories that we wanted you to or because you portrayed a politician in a bad light, rather they'll give a different excuse.
They'll say " hey we ran out of funding " or " you were less successful than a comparable like company that happened to portray us in a more positive light but isn't the reason that we're taking away that funding ".
So like the problem here is that tim's model just doesn't adjust for the fact that governments tend to be corrupt, that funding tends to be wishy washy at best, and that in the status quo we have a pretty good system for making sure that investigative journalism happens.
Two main arguments: first, on preventing the corruption of journalism.
The role of investigative journalism is important because they're willing to investigate groups that other journalists or detectives aren't willing to dive into things like government cover-ups, corporate schemes, political cover-ups, and even if tim says that this money won't have any strings attached, this is something that is unlikely to happen in reality as long as the government is able to withdraw the funding when they feel like it.
Like as I told you it's not as if they're going to say " we're withdrawing funding because of the kinds of things you reported " but they can easily insinuate during the investigation that money will be affected maybe behind closed doors when they're not being recorded in the way that can be no proof and then they take it away and say it was for some other reason later on if the group doesn't go along with their with their demands.
Investigative journalism is one of the few checks we have against the government.
We need to make sure that they are left completely free from these outside influences and the only way we can do that is to keep it an is to keep it without government funding.
Our second argument is about precluding private donations.
Once a sector starts receiving public funding private donors tend to be less likely to keep donating because they feel like that sector is taken care of.
We see this a lot with public museums that start receiving public funding and we see massive drops in the amount of private funding they receive specifically because of this issue where private donors have this fungible amount of money that if they feel like isn't going to be doing its best or is going to an industry that doesn't need it, they're going to withdraw it and send it somewhere else.
This is really bad because most private donations are actually bigger and more generous than the government to come in over time.
So the other problem here is that government funding is madly inconsistent.
It can be taken away at any point in time with changes in political leadership, changes in budgets and the whereas private donorship might be also inconsistent in some ways but you can at least rely oftentimes on like one rich person who may be supports you over the course of multiple years, you can rely on donations from your viewers the way a lot of like NPR investigative journalism does.
Like those figuring out those alternative pathways of funding tend to result in much more consistent funding than unpredictable government.
We also just don't want journalism to get reliant on government funding in the first place because then you'll have this massive dip or like a lot of struggle if something does happen with that funding.
Like in the status quo, journalism has learned how to make do but if you get spoiled by consistent funding over time, if that funding gets taken away, you struggle even more than if you never had it in the first place just because you've gotten used to it.
This is something we want to avoid because it would end up with a lapse in investigative journalism being able to occur.
Proud to oppose.