Don't ban surrogacy.
Three main areas of clash, first we want to talk about womens' rights.
.
Recognize first and foremost that we think that individuals ought be able to consent into jobs like regardless.
Like the problem with a lot of tim's argumentation is that he talks about how you shouldn't be able to consent to a contract that you can't get out of all of this.
But the problem is that he doesn't show you why surrogacy and the act of having a child is any different than contracting away my life for two years to work on a construction site or program for a certain company or do any kind of job given that all of these things are presumably irreversible without some kind of intense outside stimulus.
If anything, we think the contract that a woman makes when she agrees to be a surrogate can often be more meaningful because the jobs predefined in ways that any other job cannot be because it's been created by laws, years and years of biological laws ie we know exactly how babies are made and how they grow and how they develop and what a woman will feel during that time and aside from natural variations between pregnancies it vastly remains the same.
Insofar as it is her body and her knowledge of her context, we are unclear on why the government gets to come in and say yes I know better than you this is how we're going to do it instead.
Tim talks about how it's incredibly traumatic to go through childbirth, but he ignores the fact that first a lot of women who choose to do surrogacy are those who have already gone through childbirth so it is unclear why they somehow are not capable of understanding that they can go through it again but second that even women who don't can do things like research the process and other such things that can make sure that they will be safe and that they will be knowledgeable of what's to come.
Sure we cannot account for every possibility in every situation but that is true of literally any job like even if I am a dancer or like any job that works with my body, all of them can have unforeseen effects if I am to hurt myself if I'm to get sick.
It is unclear to us how surrogacy is different.
Our second argument is about how it facilitates equal access to children.
It is arbitrary that the experience of having kids is defined by having a working uterus.
Insofar as every person is equal due to the fundamental of being a person like all of us are made out of the same material and experience relatively similar experiences then it is unfair that some are exclusively limited based on their sexual orientation or the mechanics of their uterus stopping working.
It is thus unclear to us why we ought not provide them with a way of having kids especially since so much of society sees biological children as a like fundamental part of how you self actualize, experiencing the creation of something that holds a part of yourself is an experience that very rarely can like be replicated with something that isn't that, right?
So we think that people who might be homosexual, those who are infertile, all of these people are helped infinitely when we do things like legalize surrogacy and hurt disproportionately when we ban it.
Our third argument is about why it's good for women.
First we think the simple idea of women being make like making money through surrogacy is good insofar as that money in itself is empowering and can be used to change your life into the long term.
Things like in developing countries buying animals that you may farm in more developed countries doing things like going to get an education so you can get a future job we think these are unique ways in which women can benefit off of essentially a nine month onetime expenditure that often pays more than many other jobs and if it didn't and women had other jobs they would just do them so it's still unclear to us why they can't choose them.
The problem on their side of the house is that they're always going to have black markets or like friendly surrogates where you don't pay them.
This is always going to be worse first because they are unregulated so you can't mandate equal pay or mandate health conditions but second because it just means women aren't being compensated for what they want.
Proud to oppose.