Don't ban whaling.
We think that we can have reasonable limitations and require things like licensing before we allow individuals to whale.
As long as we prevent overhunting we don't think that we're going to get the ecological impacts that tim is so worried about.
So at that point we think that allowing a small amount of individuals to continue whaling will allow us to straddle the best of both worlds.
You're not overfishing on whales and you're not harming the environment, but simultaneously you're still allowing whale meat to occur to like be sold and for groups that like see this as culturally important to continue to whale.
First like at the top we want to respond to these animal rights arguments because we don't think that animals have an automatic right not to get hunted or not to suffer as tim says.
Like sure they experience some pain but this is true for literally any animal that gets hunted and yet we don't mandate vegetarianism because we recognize that to a certain extent our society values our own human pleasure and our own above these animals.
So even if it is the case that he proves that whaling is unnecessary, you could say this about any one type of hunting for anyone so we're unclear on what makes wailing unique.
Sure he says that maybe whales are more intelligent but insofar as the majority of the time you're picking off whales that are like are swimming alone or you're picking off beached whales because we are thinking that we would like to put limits on commercial whaling we don't think this is much of an issue.
Three main arguments, first on cultural relevance.
Plenty of groups that exist in small pockets of society today exist as groups for whom whaling is an important part of their culture and relationships with each other.
It is important to allow them to continue to fulfill that especially since a small amount of whaling doesn't hurt the environment or the whale population.
But minority groups getting in trouble legally for participating in cultural practices is really problematic and oftentimes is used to weaponize against them when they are portrayed as savage or animalistic because of these practices they have.
This especially occurs when these communities are really isolated.
Like you have a few off the coast of the united states and there are groups that really rarely interact with the rest of the US but still kinda do their own thing.
So when they get held to legal standards that the united states sets we think it's actually very bad because not only were they not aware of the majority of their laws but it is directly cutting across their preferred way of life.
Our second argument is about economic relevance.
Whales provide meat, oil, skin in areas that don't have much hunting of small game simply because of the the environment like coastal areas.
We think that the whaling is actually really important because it is infinitely bigger than any other one fish that you can get so it feeds a lot of people and it fulfills multiple needs at once with one animal.
And in this way we think its contribution to the market is actually quite irreplaceable and very important.
Our third argument is about the way it opens a black market.
When you ban something completely you incentivize the creation of a black market which is always worse than a regular one, primarily because with a regular market you can levy heavy taxes to discourage the behavior and benefit the government when the practices do occur.
And this money can then be put into anything that the government wants, right?
Like you can do things like put this into save more whales or like social welfare or a million things that would benefit people.
And we think that insofar as it is inevitable that whaling happens anyway, it'll just happen illegally because recognize that the demand for whale will still be there, it still holds a special niche for individuals it's preferable for us to at least be able to control the number of licenses and whether or not we get some tax out of it.
Second we think that being able to track and control the amount of whaling happening more effectively on our side of the house with licenses.
Like on their side you're just going to get a lot of illegal whalers that authorities have no control over which we think is worse than the status quo.
Proud to oppose.