Don't subsidize wikipedia.
Yeah, wikipedia is free, but we don't think it is true that it is really struggling for money.
It actively accepts and advertises for donations and every now and then, it'll push notifications asking for donations, and most of the time it gets more than enough.
Denny is right that there are some running costs but it's not really much, especially compared to the billions of individuals that donate.
So I think that unless danny is able to demonstrate an absolute need for something like a consistent stream of government funding, we don't think that this needs to happen.
Moreover, we think that even if it does need a consistent stream of funding, it is preferable for wikipedia to look for corporate backing or sponsorship rather than going in and asking for something from the government, just because we think that the kind of reporting that it does is more likely to get harmed by the government than something like an unaffiliated private corporation, as long as it's not one that has like a particular amount of special interests, which we trust that those exist and that we can find one.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining a free and honest wikipedia.
The cool part about wikipedia is that it is completely independent.
There aren't any third parties that pour money into it to control what it writes.
Once wikipedia starts accepting government money, it's likely to grow dependent on it.
This means that the government will have control over what gets posted or written, so if there's something that is negative about the current regime or government action, it is infinitely more likely to get taken down on government side insofar as that is where the government money is actually being able to influence it.
We think that a lot of the time this is actually something that will be applied.
Like in so far as if you currently go on donald trump's page, you'll see all of the reporting about like his past lawsuits with women who he's assaulted and all of these different things, which is something that donald trump would certainly not want on the internet if he had control over something like wikipedia.
In the status quo, sure, someone can go in and manually delete all of this information, but it is likely to get reposted ridiculously fast insofar as wikipedia moderators have control over like the different versions that exist.
So we value a free, even if poor, wikipedia more than we value one that is tied to the government but has more money.
Our second argument is about why there are better ways to spend government money.
Wikipedia manages really well off of private donations.
Sure, government subsidization would help, but it is not necessary for its existence.
Meanwhile, there are other things of greater importance that actively need government funding.
Things like education, welfare, social security, all of this is more important than wikipedia because it fulfills individuals' higher order needs: their need for housing, their need for an education, their need for basic food.
Moreover, the government actually has an obligation to provide the majority of the rest of these things, but no obligation to provide access to something like wikipedia.
Things like libraries are actually better to fund, especially since wikipedia isn't actually guaranteed to be correct.
So when danny's spends a while being like, " oh, wait, but look, libraries are being funded, wikipedia isn't, " he forgets that wikipedia can be edited by literally anybody.
There can be incorrect or unreliable information there.
As such, it would be preferable for the government to put money into something that is a well-researched like or actual encyclopedia or just stick with libraries that compile these kinds of data and compile the resources that have this, rather than actually going to something so unreliable as wikipedia.
Proud to oppose.