The motion for today's debate is that we should ban genetically modified crops.
We're gonna model this as we would allow the research and we would allow special waivers for the production of genetically modified crops if it is for the purpose of research but would ban the sale and production of genetically modified crops.
Three main areas of clash, first on preventing ownership over the crops and their future.
Currently GMO's are controlled by corporations and this isn't something that is ever going to change insofar as this is like largely a corporate interest something that they see as like being able to make a lot of money off of then we've already established like the initial patents that solidifies these monopolies and when they own the patents and they own the seeds they don't allow farmers to breed and select their own plants.
This first of all we think blatantly encroaches on farmers' property rights insofar as like we've already sold this item to them we don't understand why like groups like monsanto get to still control the future production of them.
We think this is a really bad standard of ownership to set where we say that like even after you've sold something then a different group can still claim ownership because of a patent insofar as this like inherently limits things that are often outside of farmers' control.
Like first we'd say that it is necessary to their trade and necessary to farming to be able to control your own seeds.
That's the only way that small farmers can develop and the only way that like anyone besides large factory farms that can afford this can ever grow.
But more than that, we just think that this like is antithetical to a lot of other issues right like if a seed happens to travel on the air and settle into a farmer's land with non GMO non monsanto crops now monsanto can still claim ownership of them because it's its seeds have crossed pollenated with them and we think that's really dangerous because this isn't something that people ever actually controlled.
But we also think that it means that if these kinds of that you can run the small farms out of business entirely because they can't afford the same seeds that grow more quickly like recognize that these kind of GMO crops are always more efficient like this is just true to the point where it's like always market preferable to grow them.
The problem is that they're also quite expensive because of the patents that we are worried about and so small farms can never compete which is bad for the economy and bad for anyone who doesn't want to eat GMO food.
It's also really bad for efficiency.
Farmers are really good at selecting seeds generationally to be best for their environment.
Groups like monsanto may have all the scientists in the world but they can't specialize their seeds between regions like it's really different what's going to grow well in new mexico versus new england and the only way that you can control that generationally and control that evolution is if you are capable of replanting the seeds that have grown the best in the past.
Our second area of clash is about how it's bad for the environment.
GMO crops are created to be pesticide resistance this encourages the use of pesticides because you know it's not going to kill off your actual crop so you use it in order to in order to like kill off anything extra and like you're able to use even more of it and make sure that nothing extra grows because they're resistant.
This is really bad because it drians into your water, poisons other crops, all of that and like that's bad both for like any other crops that might grow there but also bad for the groundwater that we then need to be able to drink and needs to be able to feed the rest of like animals and other plants.
So we think that that's really damaging.
Our third area of clash is about allowing research and development.
GMO's have the potential to be incredibly helpful to tons of people economically and nutritiously, but releasing them early as they are developed does two things.
First it begs political outrage.
Religious groups throw fits about it being ungodly, paranoid health freaks worry about potential health effects, and because we don't have the research fully developed we don't have any way of definitively saying look here are the millions of studies we've conducted that have shown that there's no damage.
This creates groups that can lobby against funding for research, that can stymy any kind of small groups that want to look into this and that's really bad but the second thing it does is that it prevents the best research from occurring.
Monopolies establish themselves, dominate the market, and disincentivize any small research group from doing anything because they already know they're not going to be able to make as much money of it and they're not going to be able to compete with the patent law.
We think we need to give these groups a chance and give GMO's a real chance.
Proud to propose.