Two main areas of clash on why we ought not ban fast food.
First on why this is not unique and unenforceable.
What will is doing is literally just banning drive-throughs because there is no way in which to distinguish whether something is fast food or not, other than by the idea that you can get it very quickly.
He's not banning the dangerous components that make up these fast foods or make them so unhealthy.
He's not banning individual dining chains, all he's doing is saying because you get your food out too quickly you can no longer exist.
This is a problem because what he's doing is creating a world in which the same mcdonalds can exist, it just gets to pretend to be I don't know mcdonalds mcslow and not have a drive through and maybe put some mood lighting in.
What this means is that the government can just look like they're doing something about obesity and the hunger of the impoverished when really it is a fake and cheap action that provides them political sway without actually changing the situation of the people in question.
We don't think that this should be allowed at the point that you're going to be placing a ban on food that is supposed to make society healthier make sure that it actually works because there is a limited amount of political capital and a limited amount of people that are going to be willing to fight for these kinds of scenarios and wasting all of that on laws that don't actually work and don't change things is exactly what we've been struggling against for the past several years in government.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think it's incredibly important that fast food provides a cheaper option for those who cannot afford something more.
Recognize that fast food developed as a way to promote cheap alternatives for those who couldn't go out or make extravagant meals because there was this time in the early nineteen hundreds in which suddenly americans weren't eating us home as often.
The ideal housewife was becoming less of an ideal housewife and more of an ideal worker and us as such it became a part of the nuclear family that will defends so hard to go out to dinner as a group and enjoy not having to cook at home.
As such, even if fast food is unhealthy, it provided an avenue by which poorer people could access both a cheaper meal and a good experience for their family at the same time.
We think that just because you don't have the means to do so in the same way does not mean that you should be excluded from such experiences, and it is not the part of the government to paternalize poor people and say this is so one healthy for you that you ought not have this experience.
Because recognize that the alternatives are equal in lack of health.
First, will is wrong about why produce is so expensive.
It's not that health is some sort of premium, this only really occurs with organic produce, but rather it's because production prices have increased.
We've had installments of minimum wages that are higher than in the past so you actually have to pay your workers more and if not you're shipping from overseas which involves high import taxes.
Denying the nuance will misses the point.
Just because he abolishes fast food he doesn't actually change the prices unless he's willing to abolish america's minimum wage or change our import taxes or tariffs.
So all he's doing on his side of the house is making poor people less likely to get anything to eat because of the lack of money and time.
Unless he somehow going to change those two factors, this is a completely useless policy that actually causes more harm than good.
We don't think that you ought be paternalizing people in the first place but when that paternalism actually ends up in more of the problem that you're trying to solve, it definitely ought not happen.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.