The motion for today's debate is that we should make assisted suicide a criminal offense.
Three main areas of clash: first, on maintaining legal standards.
Because regardless of what we call assisted suicide, it is murder.
You are taking the life of someone else.
And whether or not it was by their permission, it's still extinguishing someone's life.
In the real world, when it's not administered by a doctor even if that person asked you to kill them, it would still be considered murder.
And we don't think that anything changes just because you put them into a hospital and dress it up pretty.
We think that it's important to treat it exactly as it is because it has to do with the maintenance of criminal justice.
Otherwise you're devaluing human life, saying that in certain instances it's okay to take it away.
And this is a really dangerous door to open because if you're allowing justifications for this, it obviously allows the space for more justifications in the future.
Some things just have to be basically true and not something you can ever pass otherwise you enter a world in which other people can use their own moral systems to come up with their own rules and guidelines.
We also think that this signaling is really really bad.
You don't want a world in which it looks like the government condones something like committing suicide.
We think on net you end up in a world where you normalize this practice, and more people are going to be relying on a on suicide as an option than in the status quo, where it's something heavily looked down on, heavily looked at as a last option, and not condoned by the government.
Our second area of clash has to do with the lack of consent.
Because when you're really really sick you often might feel useless or like a burden on a family, then even if your family isn't trying to pressure you, oftentimes people put pressure on themselves.
They feel guilty for being an economic burden or for making people sad.
And at the point that you have this kind of pressure surrounding you we don't think that you can meaningfully consent to taking your own life.
Given that you aren't actually incentivized only by this concept of like wanting to be gone, but rather you're incentivized by the emotions of other people.
And if any decision should be made only by yourself, we think it should be one in which you take your own life.
We also think there's another layer here though, because we think the person that you are today isn't necessarily the person that you're going to be in a year, two years, or in this situation the span of a lifetime.
We don't think that you can make this decision for your future self because it is so permanent.
Like obviously sometimes I make decisions for my future self when I sign a lease or when I sign any kind of contract with like an institution, but in this situation you're literally signing away the rest of your life and that is incredibly dangerous.
Because you don't know where you're going to be twenty five years from now.
Even if you might not live that long, you don't know where you'll be a year from now.
We think that a lot of the time really miraculous things happen.
And just because you think that something is the end doesn't necessarily mean that it really is.
Our third area of clash is about de-incentivizing assisted suicide and how by de-incentivizing it, you incentivize seeking help.
We think that right off the bat you want to make it as hard as possible for someone to commit suicide.
Given that it is a permanent solution and oftentimes to a temporary problem.
Especially in situations of chronic depression.
This problem is one that can be treated, that can be worked around.
And even in terms of physical illness there can be last minute solutions, or like illnesses can like suddenly disappear, new treatments can come out.
And we think that really you have to exhaust every single option before you're willing to give yourself up.
And given that it can be a permanent mistake we'd rather make it as hard as possible.
We think a lot of the time people feel desperate and out of options, at times even when they aren't, you and even when they're you don't want to make it easier to stay in that head space and to say that it would be okay to commit suicide.
For these reasons proud to propose.