Don't ban genetically modified crops.
Sam talks about how these things are controlled by corporations as though literally every aspect of our life isn't.
Like the problem with this argument is that he had to show why it being controlled by a corporation means there's a justification to ban.
Insofar as being controlled by a corporate interest is true of basically every single sellable good within a capitalist system, we can't just ban GMO's on the basis of corporate control since then you'd literally be banning everything.
This sounds more like an attack on capitalism than on GMO's specifically.
He talks about unreliable science.
We also think this is inaccurate.
Like maybe there's not enough information for some specific gene modification and those we think can be regulated individually, but the majority of modifications made are known because they've been around for awhile and the studies of impact have been done in order for them to get to market in the first place.
Moreover bans prevent research so it's unclear how sam will ever get the testing he wants if he bans it.
We're fine with a world in which we require GMO's to go through regulatory agencies.
Like we think the government has the ability to mandate that, we just think it's problematic to just give up on something that could be helpful to so many people because you're worried that capitalism perverts it.
Two main arguments, first on why it's good for the economy.
Genetically modified crops are the result of innovation that creates an entire industry.
This involves everybody from researchers to industrial producers and lab staff to the people who drive the delivery trucks.
It is a massive amount of jobs that are at all levels of education which we think is something that oftentimes gets we get not enough of in current society at the point that so many jobs are only appearing at like the higher levels or specifically in things like engineering.
We also think it provides a new niche for international trade.
Like there are highly profitable market spaces that countries like the united states that have the knowledge power can take advantage.
We think then it's good for international collaboration, globalization, and the economies of all of the groups that are involved in this insofar as you now have this kind of like stream of genetically modified crops back and forth or like an established trade that like previously just didn't exist before genetically modified crops existed.
Our second argument is about societal good.
First to address the argument on farmer autonomy, like first we just think that farmers can decide whether or not they want to buy into genetically modified crops for themselves.
Like there's plenty of market for organic farming and we just don't think that farmers are forced into buying GMO's, rather they get to decide if the fact that they'll be able to produce more and be more efficient and like sell more at the end of the day is worth the fact that they're compromising being all natural or whatever other trademarks they might have had.
Moreover we think that this just never makes things more expensive because often the mass production element of genetically modified food makes it cheaper.
Sam talks about dangerous chemicals.
I just think this means he doesn't understand how genetically modified crops work.
Like the reason we need all of these dangerous chemicals is because current produce current produced necessitates those kind of protections in order to keep pests off of it.
The cool thing about genetically modified stuff is that you don't have to use as many dangerous chemicals because you can just build in defenses against pasts and weeds that eliminate the need for pesticides or insecticides or weed killers in the first place that are then potentially harmful to humans.
This involves just like transacting a gene that is often found in ladybugs that makes them uncomfortable for like birds of prey to eat and you put that into things like genetically modified crops and suddenly you don't have issues with pests anymore.
So we just think that that harm is always going to be more real on government side.
Then we want to talk about the potential for better food.
Like we think the fact that you can create food that is more nutritionally dense, that you can have a higher yield, have food that is more resilient, and the fact that all of this is made at a cheaper cost just vastly outweighs any potential harms because you can literally do things like solve hunger and poverty in specific areas by providing this at such a low cost and providing it in such a high amounts.
Proud to oppose.