So, when yuval says that the only time they're regulating alternative medicine is when doctors prescribe it, it is a direct refusal to engage with the motion.
In the status quo, doctors already do not prescribe alternative medicine.
It is not within their definitional power and it is not within the definition of alternative medicine, given that the definition of alternative medicine is that it is provided by outside means for medical areas.
So, at most, a doctor might be able to suggest an alternative med, but it would never be prescribed.
So, given that the opponent is using a tautology, we're going to have a real debate.
They've already lost this round, but I'm going to tell you why alternative medicine as a whole ought be regulated and banned and isn't necessarily wanted, or why we would want it.
So our three areas of clash we have three areas of clash: first, on why the overly scientific world ignores that alternative medicine often does work.
Because we think that the problem often is that we're overly scientific.
We place so much stock in the chemicals that we observe, in the like trials that we run, that we forget sometimes that people use these medicines for a reason, because they tend to give them some sort of relief.
We think a really good example is that recently there was a recipe discovered in a medical textbook from the eighteen hundreds.
This is literally like a tincture that someone would make and put on a compress, and it was basically just garlic wine that was boiled.
But recently, when researchers remade this mixture, even though it was alternative medicine, they found that it would kill off even incredibly medicine-resistant strains of staph infection.
So we think that it often is actually harmed in society by being overly scientific and ignoring the fact that potentially there are other medications that can work.
So, first, we think that it's good to have alternative medicine because they tend to like challenge these preconceptions and often show us that there are methods that do work, and we don't necessarily only have to stick to science.
Moreover, prescriptions are often very, very expensive when we're going through traditional hospitals and medical means.
This is purposefully done by pharmaceutical companies because they know that they can gouge individuals as much as they want, given that those individuals often don't have an alternative.
Insofar as some people simply cannot pay for this, but can afford to have alternative medicine, we think it's actually preferable to keep alternative medicine as an option, because they it actually lets people have some sort of treatment rather than what happens on their side of the house, where people who can't afford modern medicine just don't get treated at all.
Our second area of clash is why we prefer to heavily educate people rather than to ban something.
First, yuval is really worried about the impacts that this like medicine might have in terms of allergies, but as long as you have an ingredients panel and people know what they're allergic to, this isn't an issue.
But also, recognize that many people distrust the government.
They see them given that a lot of the time the government has done things, like support studies that have forcibly sterilized people of color, or given people of color aids or like other diseases as a form of study, we think it's really, really fair that these individuals do not believe in any kind of modern medicine prescribed to them.
And we think that if you ban something that they've been using instead, you only make that distrust rise because it's seen as like, " oh, why are they banning this?
Is it because they want to fool us into using things that are going to be actually harmful? "
So it's we actually think it's going to be infinitely more effective if the government shows that alternative medicine isn't a threat to them, and instead has pervasive education campaigns that show why it might be harmful and why you might prefer traditional medicine.
Our third area of clash has to do with our current pill reliance and why it's bad.
The problem in today's society is that we tend to treat all conditions with incredibly harsh drugs.
This creates tolerances and superbugs as well as immunodependency, it's bad for individual's livers, and we actually think that the entire world could use a little bit of a detox right now, which is something that alternative medicine provides.
As long as it's used safely and in a way in which you can supplement with regular medicine should it not work, we don't think alternative medicine is worth banning.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.