Don't cancel the patriot act.
First, I want to address sam's argument about the constitution.
We just don't think this is true, right?
Unreasonable search and seizure is about groups going into your physical home, etcetera, and collecting information without a warrant.
We think that it's really different to have a situation in which you go in and have unreasonable search and seizure versus situation in which the government overhears or overlooks some of your communications, like they can't use that in a court of trial, right?
They'd still have to obtain a warrant after that.
And moreover, this is stuff that they look into digitally, it's not something that occurs within your home.
But also, we think this only matters if it decreases your free speech, which isn't the way that this particular policy gets enforced.
Then he talks about the fourteenth amendment, and we just don't think this is something that is accurate either, right?
Like even though muslims may be disproportionately spied on, that's not a harm.
Right?
The harm that occurs is only spread across individuals who are actually criminals, because it catches their criminal activities.
So there isn't someone that the patriot act actually disproportionately harms, there's just maybe someone that it is disproportionately used against.
But that's not something that sam proves is wrong, so we don't think he can win the round on that, especially since the reason it gets disproportionately used on this group of individuals is because those individuals have been disproportionately linked to the situations of acts of terror.
So we think that insofar as that provides a reasonable suspicion, we think this is justified.
Two main arguments, first on preventing terrorism and acts of crime.
Sam is worried about government obligation, but we think that the government has an obligation to protect the people and make sure they can feel safe going about their everyday life.
It is really hard to catch crime and terrorism without access to people's more private correspondence.
This is because no one announces that they're a they're a terrorist or that they're planning a bombing.
This is the kind of stuff you only find out through their private calls, messages, shopping habits, etcetera.
Like the government doesn't care about people who are going about their private lives or participating in low-level crimes.
They just don't have time to go after your drug dealer when it's like just like marijuana or something.
They don't care that you've been accessing like furry porn illegally on the internet.
These aren't the things that the government cares about or has time to care about when they are spying on you through the patriot act.
They're looking specifically to deal with the dangerous things, like organized crime, like high level terror attacks, and similar things.
Our second argument is about making people feel safe.
The knowledge that the patriot act exists makes people feel more secure in the state.
This means that you have less backlash against individuals who are assumed to participate in terror unfairly, so individuals of muslim faith.
It means that people feel less need to put more money into the military or militarize themselves, and you also get less people buying guns or advocating for state area militias when they feel like that's something they don't need as much, because the government has it handled.
Moreover, things like the right to privacy only matter insofar as not having it makes people less comfortable taking the actions they usually would.
This means that as long as they don't know it's being violated, it doesn't matter if the government continues spying.
So all we really need is just less whistle blowers.
But at the end of the day, the work of the patriot act itself is good.
And as long as people don't realize the extent of the spying, we don't really think that there's a meaningful impact on privacy, because I still feel comfortable doing things that I'm usually embarrassed about if I thought that somebody was watching, because I just assume that nobody is watching.
So, at the end of the day, we think at the point that the patriot act allows the government to maintain national security in a really important way, especially at a time where we're seeing massive increases in terrorist attacks, we think this is something that just outweighs the idea that maybe some people are unfairly discriminated against or some people feel like their privacy is being violated, just because there are infinitely more people who are living within the country who are going to be affected if something like a terrorist attack occurs.
Proud to oppose.