Don't legalize public nudity.
There is a major problem with the idea that james has that he's legalizing non-sexual nudity.
The definition of non-sexual is absurdly nebulous.
Men are literally one boner away from being sexually nude even if they start out not so.
And women of particular races or body types are more likely to be sexualized than others.
So even when they might think they are being non-sexually nude, other people are likely to label them as sexual anyway.
Given that this is an undefinable standard, we don't think this should be allowed in general.
Still we can have spaces set aside for public nudity like nude beaches, resorts, lounges, etcetera.
We just don't think that public nudity should be the norm in the rest of broad society.
Three main arguments, first on preventing harassment.
Men are scary and we think that a lot of the time what happens is that when given power or given any kind of like physical ability to harass women they often do.
Like it's just easier to harass women when you're naked because you can just point your boner or rub up against someone in a much more lewd way than if you had clothing on.
It also makes it harder to catch these kinds of instances because there are more people who are naked so whereas like on the subway if someone whips their dick out, that is something that is instantly continued instantly considered illegal and crude.
On government's side this begins to be a gray area where it's a lot harder to actually be able to pick out which situations are harassment and which aren't, our second argument is about respecting personal preference.
James is wrong.
There are victims of public nudity.
It does harm other people besides the person being nude.
We want to talk about sexual assault survivors because it might they they are likely to feel justifiably uncomfortable and threatened by genitalia in public.
But there are also groups like young children who shouldn't be exposed to that yet and they get forced into sexualisation by adults who don't have boundaries when public nudity is more allowed.
Like yes we understand that even when people are fully clothed, it is easy to make someone uncomfortable or threaten them or do any number of sexual objectification.
But we think that when someone is nude that gives them a unique way to exert power over other people because they essentially remove that boundary between the world in their naked bodies and the other person.
Then we want to talk about people who are religious.
Like we just don't think that these people should be hand waved.
Like their religious preferences are important.
The good is idiosyncratic.
People can be naked in private but we should respect peoples' comforts in public when it harms their psyche.
We also just don't think this is like a preference that people want, right?
Like most people feel uncomfortable around nudity from people they don't know.
And even if it is arbitrary that's still a fair preference.
Moreover we think we should differ to over protection in these situations.
It doesn't hurt people to not be publicly nude but it can still be harmful for others to see everyone being nude all of the time.
Our third argument is just that it's physically bad.
We think that body shaming becomes worse now because you can see what people look like under their clothes all the time.
So you'll have individuals who are conventionally attractive feel comfortable being naked and people who are bigger who aren't.
And when those larger people are bigger we just think they're infinitely more likely to get like a bit made fun of and made to feel insecure about their bodies on government's side, as well as the fact that they're just going to be continually normalizing like conventional skinniness or conventional attractiveness.
We also think this makes people very prone to things like sunburn which can literally cause cancer so maybe don't do that, but also hygiene is an issue here.
Like sitting on seats that you get all sweaty now because you don't have any jeans to keep your butt sweat from leaking on to them.
Like also genitals tend to leak a little bit right?
Like there's just like secretions that occur and we think that they're pretty gross and shouldn't expose be exposed the rest of the world all the time.
Proud to oppose.