The motion for today's debate is that we should ban alcoholic beverages.
So what we mean by this is that it would no longer be legal to sell or produce anything that has alcohol in it.
People caught consuming, people caught selling, or possessing would be faced with a fine, and after increased offenses would first face a raised fine and then face jail time.
So two main areas of clash: first on harms to self and others.
Because we think that the government generally has two main reasons that they can ban something and infringe a persons autonomy, and the first of them is that they can prove that this is a uncontextualized harm to themselves.
The second is that there are externalities that the person cannot predict and does not have the right to commit, and the third is that there's a pertinent government interest.
So we are going to be addressing the first two in this first argument.
So recognize first that drinking destroys the lever, it takes people out of reality, it's incredibly addictive and generally it has all of these really bad impacts on people who consume, even a little bit, but especially too much alcohol.
And we don't think that you can consent, because you can't conceptualize what that addiction does to your brain and body.
First because people believe that they can control their intake and their urges.
The amount of times that I've heard people say: " this is not a problem. "
As they reach for the bottle or reach for the pillbox.
Because in the end people are unable to conceptualize what is a problem for themselves, because they are so convinced that they are powerful and capable of controlling themselves, and they see it a shameful when they can't.
But second, because the culture blinds people to this problem.
It's shown in the media and glamorized and shown as this like: " I'm a hard worker.
Look how much I need to drink to work that off. "
At the point that everything around you is messaging that you don't have a problem, we think your ability to recognize when you do is severely impeded to the point that you cannot contextualize those future harms.
You can't contextualize dependency or how much money you're going to end up spending on this or how it's going to destroy your relationships with others.
Because you're always going to be in denial.
But even if you can consent, we think that kids and surrounding people around you don't.
Drinking doesn't just impact the individual.
It destroys families.
First, it's incredibly expensive.
Especially for a lot of families where they're like there like lower to upper middle class, or very very poor and they're targeted by targeted advertisements for alcohol.
And at the point that this occurs, we think that it's really painful monetarily, when you have a choice between may be saving for like a better trip for your family, or like school supplies, and instead you're spending that money on alcohol to support a dependency.
But we also think it's incredibly emotionally problematic.
Right?
Seeing your parent incapacitated at a young age and feeling like they're going to pay more attention to the bottle than you, is very dangerous and we don't think that we should be opening up the doors to that.
There's also a lot of accident related kind of problems: car accidents that are caused by over drinking, violent accidents that are caused by over drinking, we think that the actually the majority of car accidents include someone who is intoxicated and we think the only way you prevent these kinds of mistakes is by banning alcohol at all.
We think that people don't have, even if people have a right to harm themselves they don't have a right to harm others and thus we must ban it.
But our second area of clash demonstrates that there is a viable government interest, just in case you didn't believe the first point enough.
As we already mentioned, there are a lot of alcohol driven crimes that the government takes the brunt of.
Right?
Car accidents, violent crimes.
This fills jails court fees and then money that is personally spent on alcohol and insurance instead of something that would help the economy or benefit individual families.
It also breaks up families.
Neglected kids are often left to be borne by schools who have to feed them and take care of them or even worse, they end up as part of the system that is already over burdened and cannot deal with more children.
We also think that there are that alcoholics are generally inefficient and therefore aren't as productive in society.
And given that the government has an interest in society being productive, we think this in itself means that the government should be able to regulate whether or not alcohol is banned.
For these reasons, proud to propose.