Don't subsidize wikipedia.
Real quick, dealing with a problem out of government.
Drew comes up here and he's like: " oh, well we're going to make these donations anonymous no one's going to know who's promoting you ".
The problem with this is that wikipedia isn't stupid.
That line item that comes in the new york budget and the fact they're now receiving hundreds and hundreds of dollars from one donor, or someone is contacting them saying: " this is what I feel.
I would prefer, " even like regardless of how donation itself is anonymous, matters.
Like we think that we see this with campaign funding a lot, where the donation is anonymous but we don't know what happens behind closed doors.
We don't know who contacts that individual and says: " hey I gave you a lot of money.
I want you to cooperate with me. "
Or who contacts them and says: " I will give you a lot of money if you do this thing " and then that anonymous donation pops up.
So we think what happens when we say subsidize wikipedia is that groups like the government seize the opportunity and say: " okay, I'm going to subsidize wikipedia and darn well wikipedia will know about it. "
So three main areas of clash, first on corrupting wikipedia.
We think that funding is a way that allows the government to sneak in and hold power over the group.
Because once other groups are subsidizing wikipedia, we think that's when personal private donations stop.
Because that's when wikipedia stops hurting.
That's when the little flyers that say: " we really need your three dollars " stop popping up.
Because they don't need it anymore and because individuals see those line item budgets and they say: " well they don't need me anymore even if the site pretends that they do. "
Individuals aren't stupid either.
So what happens then is that wikipedia becomes dependent on that kind of funding.
And this is really bad because then the government can create stipulations or threaten to pull it off if pull the funding off if wikipedia doesn't do certain things.
Like maybe add moderators that are selected by the government that are there to proofread material but can actually make all of the same edits that anyone else can.
We think that it increases censorship and bias.
And recognize that even though the government is controlled by different political parties at different times, there are some things that remain consistent in terms of what the government doesn't want flying around.
We think that some of these things include anything about like what like any like problems with government agencies, any mistreatment of like, I don't know, people in guantanamo bay.
Regardless of whether you're a democrat or republican, these are things that you probably believe in and don't want getting out.
But also, we think that all that happens is that you lead to massive amounts of oscillations between what kind of stuff ends up on the page and what doesn't.
We think like with someone like the current president you would just have a lot of people going back and changing small portions of donald trump's wikipedia page.
Like maybe it no longer talks about the grab them by the pussy tape.
Maybe it no longer talks about his massive efforts to buy up houses and prevent individuals from house owning and like than renting it to them at enormous prices.
Like these are the kinds of tiny details that start to get lost when you allow government agencies more control in these kinds of areas.
Even if they're just like religious groups, we think that the objectivity gets lost.
And this is really bad because you already have tons of news media that are incredibly biased.
And so like even if wikipedia isn't always true, it's been reliably bipartisan which stops on their side of the house.
Our second area of clash is about why it's an unreliable source it's bad for the government to put backing behind that.
Recognize tat the government shouldn't subsidize bad sources because the government is an authority figure that lends legitimacy to them in the eyes of a massive portion of the population.
Wikipedia is person regulated and edited interface.
Anyone can log on whether it's me, my uncle jim, like some four year old, and change the information on it.
There's no mechanism of oversight, fact checking etcetera.
So when the government does things like says: " now we support this " people are even more likely to take it as true, or those people who are prone to paranoia or even more likely to get more paranoid.
We think that you shouldn't be fixing something that isn't broken.
Even though wikipedia sometimes spends a month or two struggling, they manage to survive on donations and we think that's the only way in which you guarantee objectivity.
Proud to oppose.