We should subsidize distance education.
Two main arguments, first on higher education being a right.
In the status quo, we recognize primary education as a right.
This is why we do things like allocate money to public schools and make sure that public schooling is free, and when it isn't free, very, very, very affordable.
The only reason that higher education isn't in the same category is because we used to be able to say that a person could be expected to function within a society without having a higher education.
What I mean by this is that it was very normal for someone who only had a high school degree to be able to find a job, to be able to be active politically and kind of participate in all of these facets of society that, now, need you have a college education to access.
We think it's really unjust for the government to support this economy that creates these requirements for individuals but not support the individuals themselves who are stuck within that system.
Given the cost to higher education, there's a massive barrier in the status quo for people to be able to fulfill the expectation of the government and function within the economy.
We want those basic tools to get over those barriers to be provided and in this situation, the only thing that people need is the access to the physical education itself.
There's also a really strong government interest to fund this.
The government wants there to be less poor people, because it ends up having to pay for them in the long term via welfare and food stamps.
This is a very easy way to preclude having to deal with later problems that will cost the government more, because it's the difference between empowering individuals so they can continually provide for themselves versus just having to provide for those individuals when they realize they cannot do so themselves.
We're essentially trying to preempt the problem by providing the solution to the root problem rather than just dealing with the symptoms later.
Our second argument is about providing increased access.
Since we have proven that higher education is a right, now we're going to prove why distance education is specifically the way to facilitate this right.
There are plenty of young to middle-aged individuals who started working directly after high school and really want to access these higher level jobs but don't have the ability to, because they don't have time to go off and apply and enroll in a full-time university, and often don't even have time to go to community classes in person because of their work hours.
Moreover, a lot of people live really far away from any community colleges or other universities.
So for someone who's really living in a rural area, even if the government put money into something like higher education more broadly, without accessing distance education, you still wouldn't be benefitted.
I just think at the end of the day, the people who are most important in these kinds of debates are people who have been trying really hard to provide for themselves, who tend to work incredibly long hours, who might have families to provide for as well, and these people aren't the type who can do things like go off to college.
It's just not a privilege that they can afford.
So we think that at the point that that's true, it is good for the government to bring that education to them.
For a lot of these people, distance is the distance education is the only thing that can really fit into their lives and schedules, because it is something that they can do from home without having to sacrifice other parts of their lives for it.
We think this is a really important way for these people to access inter-class mobility, because we know that the only way to do things like reach beyond a certain level of job is to have the education that can go on your resume so that people will actually hire you for those higher level jobs.
Proud to propose.