The motion for today's debate is that we support zero tolerance policies in schools.
We think, by zero tolerance policies, we can refer either to policies that specifically target drug use, or those that specifically target weapons, we don't think we're defending the stupid kinds of zero tolerance policies, in which finger guns are punished, or having a like symbolic symbol of a gun, or a drug, is punished.
We think we're specifically referring to the substance, or the item.
So, and by zero tolerance, we mean that if anyone is seen to be in possession, it is grounds for immediate suspension, and multiple offenses are grounds for expulsion.
So, two many areas of clash, first we want to talk about the school environment.
We think it's really important to recognize the weight that a school environment has with regards to the future development of a child.
This is where someone first learns to deal with the outside world, but also learns like basic skills, that they take on into career building, into going to college, they learn how to interact with people, they learn how to interact with their superiors through teachers.
We think school is a very fundamental place, in which people start developing, and thus it deserves a certain amount of sanctity.
Children ought to be able to learn in a comfortable and safe environment, because if not, it can derail the rest of their lives and change the course of their future development.
We think that items like drugs and guns threaten that, on a fundamental level, we think they create distractions, either through the form of mind altering substances, or through the form of physical threats to to your physical safety.
We think, that the only way, to control this effectively, is through zero tolerance policies, that blanketly state: if you offend, here is the punishment.
We think the way that teachers lose the support, and respect, of students is when they cannot enforce the rules, and the best way to enforce this rule is through zero tolerance, because everything else has loopholes, and a way in which people can just get away with it.
But we also think, it's important to establish the way in which this moves into the long term.
We think saying that there are zero drugs allowed here, and providing an environment that is safe, friendly, and drug and like violence free, in the short term, allow students to behave later, and facilitate better choices in the future.
If I'm not tempted with drugs, and don't begin my and don't begin cycles of addiction early on, I am more likely to be able to function in society without drugs into the long term.
We think the problem currently is that a lot of children get their first exposure to something like drugs, when they're very young in high school, and we think being able to target organizations at their core, through zero tolerance policies, is fundamental to changing that.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why we think, that zero tolerance policies equalize the playing field for students.
We think a clear statement of consequences doesn't allow people to wriggle out, or for a lighter consequences or heavier consequences to be made, depending on a case by case basis.
We think, we have to establish what the status quo looks like, because currently, in schools that don't have zero tolerance policies, you still have situations, in which there are people who are using drugs, or having guns around, and they're still getting punished, but the difference is how much and who it is.
We think that on their side of the house, jocks always get away.
People who have high social status, people whose parents are wealthy, these are people who are always accepted back into these communities, because the policies aren't strong.
We think the only time in which you can maintain accountability for administration and for students is by saying: this is a policy we apply to everyone.
This allows school to refuse the wealthy parents, to refuse the star football player.
We think, that that these things always get levied disproportionately against those of lower status, those of darker skin, and we think that our policy puts an end to that.
For these reasons, proud to propose.