The motion for today's debate is that we should ban anonymous posts.
What we mean by this is that on the internet and forums and other public spheres that allow posting you ought not allow any kind of anonymous groups and any kind of account will have to be linked with the names and emails of individuals.
We understand that this isn't going to catch all of the individuals making like secretive counts insofar as someone can like create like other emails under fake ID's and stuff but we do think this sufficiently reduces the anonymity and makes it a lot easier to track.
With that, three areas of clash.
First on creating accountability.
Recognize that people are their most awful when they knew that they can't face repercussions for their actions.
Anonymity is the ultimate form of freedom because it means that you never have to face the consequences on two levels.
First personally.
Recognize that most people usually feel ashamed or nervous about having socially unacceptable things associated with their name.
There's a stigma within society that they're like certain systems that are socially preferable and certain decisions that are and people outside of their that norm tend not to voice those opinions.
This is why we saw a lot of trump voters who didn't disclose that they were voting for trump and that's why we were so shocked by the polling results because a lot of people just flat out lied due to their shame.
We think that you get a lot more personal freedom to be your worst when you can unlink yourself from your name and therefore from your actions making yourself feel like an innocent party and unashamed.
We also think there's a second lever layer of social repercussions.
The other reason people aren't openly shitty is because they're afraid of social repercussions like getting frozen out of groups having conf and having confrontations.
It's really difficult to socially target someone if they're anonymous because they can just disappear forever and you have no way of contacting them.
You also can't push them off of message boards when accounts can be anonymous and people can post without having accounts so it's really hard to ban users if if not anonymous people have to face these consequences and they're much more likely to spew this nonsense and like problematic thoughts in the first place because they have to check their actions against the fact that other people will be able to recognize and trace who did it.
Our second area of clash is about facilitating discussions.
When you can go anonymous, people are more likely to say really bad things and say things that are completely unproductive, they're more likely to insult users using personal attacks they're more likely to say things that are openly trollsy and racist and shit posty.
This is really bad because what it does is blocks out any real discourse when conversations are flooded by people trolling or people messing around.
So we think that people are much more likely to explain themselves and make actual responses when they know that they can be tracked or blocked so that their actual account is at risk as well as their social relationship.
We think that in that way it fosters a real conversation.
We also think that when you are allowed to systematically block trolls, it reduces the amount of this fluff which makes conversations a lot easier to follow.
We think a lot of what happens on message boards is that even when it starts out as a real conversation someone decides to make fun of them and then there's no way to control that because messaging like because posts are anonymous and anyone can post so we actually think that one of the ways that you reduce that noise and allow individuals to have real conversations is by making sure that you can either hold them accountable or throw them out of it.
Our third area of clash is about tracking.
KKK rallies, plans to vandalize synagogues mosques other hate crimes a lot of this planning and inviting occurs anonymous message boards like oftentimes it's just an anonymous user being like here's a date and time like here's what you need to do like here's the nonsense that we want to get up to join if you like.
Like we think the problem here is that these anonymous posts are impossible to track in terms of police but it's also really hard to track on a personal level.
So first talking about police tracking like if the activity is illegal, it's infinitely easier to track participants when it's associated with a user name and an email and like a real name because it's easy as contacting the website being like here is our warrant then going from there.
The problem with with anonymous boards is that it's infinitely more difficult to track these and infinitely more difficult for police to keep account but we also think that personal tracking is really important if people of color know where racist people are gathering they can more easily plan around that counter protest that or just avoid the situation entirely.
For these reasons proud to propose.