Don't ban fast food.
First and foremost I think that james didn't preempt something that is really important in this debate ie what does what the bright line between what is considered fast food and what isn't actually is.
All he says is that it is food that is prepared quickly and often is unhealthy, but the problem here becomes that fast food is a label that is vastly created by the organizations that want themselves to be considered fast food because it carries the connotation of being speedy, cheap, and easily accessible.
The moment that it stops being beneficial for them to have that title, these groups are going to abandon it.
Like currently mcdonald's markets itself as a fast food option because it knows that it gets people who have busy lives and need a cheap food item, but the second that it becomes an issue of I'm going to get shut down mcdonald's stops being named mcdonald's and stops being a fast food option it becomes something like ronaldson's and starts being considered a like something literally anything else like a easily prepared meal or a cheap dying dining options like any other number of names.
There is nothing on their side of the house created to prevent these kinds of groups from renaming themselves like fast food is literally just a convention insofar as that isn't addressed I already have no idea how they're going to win this round.
Two main areas of argumentation, first on rights.
We don't think that the government has a right to ban fast food.
First recognize that it's just not harmful enough to yourself and others to justify that, because sure, fast food is really bad for you in terms of the amount of cholesterol and calories that you ingest and they tend to rely on not being completely honest.
First this can be solved by literally requiring these groups to label how many like the nutrition facts of their items either online or on the menu.
A lot of groups already do this.
See dunkin doughnuts, see see wendy's has this as well.
At the point that that is already something that is becoming a thing, we don't think it is the case that there's a true asymmetry of information that the government is protecting against, rather what they're saying is we have to protect individuals from their own decisions because they're not contextualizing that potential harm.
But this is also garbage, right?
Like at the point that we recognize that we prefer to a freedom of safety in these kinds of democratic situations unless that harm is large enough to a broader population other than just yourself to warrant this recognize that we do things like allow the smoking of cigarettes despite the fact that this is literally one of the most damaging things that someone could do to themselves and to people around them.
I think that barrier has to be incredibly high so I don't think it is the case that they can ban it, especially since the problem is that the way that we can solve this can happen without a ban, right?
You can do things like educate individuals on why it is important to put healthy things in their bodies, why fast food is really bad for you, and all of that can happen independently from banning it which would be an intrusion on individuals' rights.
So government also has to show why that wouldn't be enough.
We also just think that individuals have a right to consume these things, like we think that people know their own lives and their own contexts better than others do and that is why they can make the kind of decisions of is this harm worth it because there's ultimately some benefit that I think outweighs.
So recognize that like if someone is really busy and really doesn't have the money to afford other things but this is something that can be easily filling and can feed them quickly and is also like on the way to their job, that is a weighing mechanism that they can take care of that the government simply can't.
Second area of argumentation is about pragmatics.
First recognize that they don't actually deal with the fact that there are plenty of other food options that are equally or more so unhealthy, they're just not called fast food.
So what happens on their side of the house is that individuals now just opt for these other kinds of things that are basically the exact same consistency but don't have the same name.
So they're not actually reducing things like the risk of diabetes but the other problem here is that now people will not be able to afford either with time or with money the amount of food that they actually need to keep themselves going because these are people who don't have the time like are working multiple jobs or are very poor and we think that there's nothing that government is doing to replace that so they ought not be banning it.
Proud to oppose.