Assisted suicide shouldn't be a criminal offense.
First, I want to address what is probably one of tim's key pieces of offense which is that maybe individuals will get pressured into committing assisted suicide once it becomes an option.
First, we just don't think this kind of pressure happens ever, right?
Like families never want to let their family members die even if they are a hard financial burden or even if there's like some difficulty in maintaining their care.
Like if anything, we often think that there's aggressive pressure from your external family members to stay alive until like come to like power through the pain or the discomfort and to continue because these are individuals who generally don't want to lose you, who generally think you are a value to the world even when you think that you are not.
But also we just think that we can check against these kinds of issues, right?
Like we think that that should be part of the psychiatric evaluation that decides whether someone gets to commit assisted suicide in the first place is that you check whether there are external family pressures.
So even if it is true that they occur, which we don't think they do, we think that we have ways in which to solve for them that shouldn't belie the entire system.
Two main arguments: first, on suicide as a contextual right.
First, let's deal with tim saying that life is sacred.
Maybe, but we think that it is only sacred insofar as the individual living it is valuing and enjoying that life and being alive because at the end of the day, life is only good or necessary insofar as the person who is living it gets to work through it.
Like if you just had someone in a vegetative state, we just don't think that that life is sacred anymore at the point that they no longer get to do things like experience the world or for themselves consider themselves sacred.
We think there is nothing inherent about someone's life that makes it sacred independent of the person.
It is sacred because of the person living it and this is exactly how we justify rights because of the way that they impact the individual and the individual's experiences.
Tim still doesn't make clear why people can't just give up their right to life.
He just says that we don't contract into slavery because it demeans them but we literally do when people contract into jobs or when individuals end up in jail and we also just don't think that this demeans life.
Our policy just ends it.
So the fact that you can't revoke the harm just means we have to be absolutely certain that people are opting into it.
People own their own bodies.
If they're of sound mind and have a good reason, they should decide what to do with it.
It's not as if we're saying that assisted suicide should be a free-for-all.
Anyone who wants to die can walk into a nearby clinic and get a drug cocktail.
That's not what we're advocating for.
We can have a screening process for patients that requires them to prove mental stability and good rational.
People who provide assisted suicide services should be mandated to have permits, inspections and other regulations.
Then obviously if people aren't meeting those standards then of course they would be breaking the law to provide assisted suicide without a permit or do the appropriate training.
It is unclear why the government knows better than you whether you should be alive even if you don't want to be.
A lot of people suffer from chronic pain illnesses or debilitating conditions that render them dependent on others and completely lacking autonomy.
We think that these people should not be forced to live if they don't want to.
Our second argument is about preventing botched suicides.
People who go for assisted suicides are those that would be likely to do it on their own anyway.
This way you can make sure that they're actually using the correct methods and aren't just harming themselves more.
Like we think that plenty of people attempt suicide end up causing long term damage to themselves and then have to live with it because they were unsuccessful.
We also think that our side of the house is the only one that actually forces individuals to interface with therapists or doctors in the first place.
Like if someone goes in because they want assisted suicide and you notice that they're like depressed or something else that would disqualify them, we think our side of the house is the only one that gets you a chance at putting them into actual care that would rehabilitate that or would help them into the long term.
On tim's side of the house you just end up with someone who wants to take their life, maybe attempts it themselves but never has an avenue to ask for help.
Proud to oppose.