Don't increase the fuel tax.
First I want to talk about the false sense of solvency.
When you do things like increase the fuel tax, you are increasing consumer accountability but you're not actually changing the behavior of large corporations and energy conglomerates that are the real issue both in terms of the amount of energy they use but also in terms of the fact that they continue to provide fossil fuels as the main source of energy in opposition of supporting things like greener sources that could eliminate the need for a fuel tax in the first place.
As long as they control lobbyists and large factories emit loads of garbage, we don't actually get access to danny's environmental impact that he talks about because it is just true that individuals can only affect so much change by lowering their own consumption.
You have to fundamentally change first either by large large large margins the amount of emissions that we're producing which can only happen when you affect large corporations or you have to change the very kind of fuel that we are using so that those emissions aren't a problem in the first place, which only happens if you switch from fossil fuels.
Neither of these things are things that the average consumer can do by being disincentivised from using us much fuel through paying a fuel tax.
Moreover we think there are a lot of individuals in the population who have the money and the desire to prioritize fuel above other goods and so you're not actually lowering the amount that those individuals are using either.
We also think that this means that other that the government will not face the same kind of pressure to act in other ways.
Like the carbon tax and other things don't happen because we think that it's already taken care of and because all of the political will that you used to do something like accomplish a fuel tax now cannot be used to accomplish things that are better like a carbon tax or the subsidization of green energy plans.
We also just think that in the same time it harms consumers which brings us to our second independent point about why this is economically problematic.
Recognize that individuals need fuel in order to do things like go to work, go to groceries, like fundamental things that you can't really change your needs for, right?
Like I can't change the fact that I use a set amount of fuel to drive to my job every day or to drive to the grocery store once a weak or to power my house where I have a million children that need to be kept warm over the winter.
Those are things that cannot be changed.
We think that what happens instead is that individuals cut down on other purchases in order to continue to pay for the amount of fuel that they need in general.
So it means you don't buy like the frivolous things that keep our economy running, it means you don't go out to eat at restaurants, it means that you don't go see movies.
All of the industries we rely on to continue to trickle like money throughout our economy stop happening on their side of the house because individuals have to cut down on those extra activities and just cut down on their budget in order to be of able to afford the fuel that they have made more expensive.
Danny brings up this whole thing about how there are foreign powers.
Like recognize first that we're still going to be buying close to the same amount so it's not actually going to change that unless he proves that you're actually changing emissions or the need for fuel by a massive margin but insofar as the amount that individual humans contribute to the fuel usage is incredibly small, we don't think that actually changes anything or matters.
Moreover though we think that you should tackle the core cause like having green energy sources also keeps us from being dependent on foreign powers that in fact it prevents us from ever having to be dependent on them because it means that if we have a sudden uptick in the need for fuel like say that a war happens and we have to power massive machines or say that a crisis hits and we have to power other things, we still don't have to rely on them because we have alternative methods free and available to us.
Proud to oppose.