The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize public nudity.
First, I want to establish what this world looks like, because opp is going to get up here and they're going to &lt;unintelligible&gt; these arguments, and they're going to say that suddenly, on government's world, everyone is naked all the time, you have people completely nude on subways and in business meetings, etcetera.
But clearly this isn't the case.
What this round is isn't about completely creating a world in which everyone is always naked.
Rather it's about giving people options to be always naked if they so please, or it's more specifically to be able to strip certain layers off or be partially naked if that's what they want.
Because it's really unlikely that suddenly everyone will always be naked.
Like, recognize that weather still exists, like personal standards still exist.
It's oftentimes just uncomfortable to have your genitalia hanging out.
It's much more likely that when convenient, people can be less covered, ie, when it's really, really hot days in a granite-covered city or on beaches.
With that, two areas of clash.
First, I think we need to talk about human rights, because as a democracy, we generally strive to be the most free and as free as possible, because we recognize that even if governmentally something isn't incentivized, we do value that every individual can do as much as much things like in a more free way as they want.
So, there are generally two reasons that the government can ban something: either they have a pertinent government interest, ie, there's something like very economically special or like something very innovative about something, or there are external harms, like other people are harmed by this.
But public nudity doesn't actually go into either, right?
Like the government shouldn't care what you do or don't wear.
In fact, when they do, it's usually rebuffed really, really quickly by the systems, right?
We've already seen in situations in france where there were burqa bans.
People got really angry about this, especially in the united states, and made sure that this isn't something that could happen again.
Or when you had situations where people would try to regulate clothing in public spaces, such as like political speech in schools on your shirts, we also see that there were massive protests against this that requested that the government not allow anyone interfere with what these people are wearing.
And we think that this really does apply to like not wearing much clothes either.
We also don't think that anyone there are any external harm by other people nudity, right?
Like, at most, people might feel uncomfortable but let's discuss that, right?
This doesn't have legal standing in court, because people can be made uncomfortable by literally anything, and you can't legislate all of that.
Like, we're really diverse group of people, and I might be made uncomfortable by people being naked and someone else might be made uncomfortable by people whistling in public, like we can't regulate all of these things, and so we have to apply we have to rely on individual rights first.
We also think that in the end if you are uncomfortable with nudity, you can just look away.
And we also think that in the end, what you have is a brief moment of discomfort for someone, but a long-term discomfort for the person who can never dress the way that they desire.
Our second area of clash is about destigmatizing and deobjectifying the human body.
There's no good reason for humans to be uncomfortable with the with human nudity.
There's no physical threat to it.
It's literally just because society trained people to be weirded out by others who are naked.
The only way that you can break that cycle is by no longer reinforcing it by repeatedly telling people that you have to be dressed and covered at all times.
If we normalize nudity in society, people will stop feeling uncomfortable around it.
We also think that deobjectifying women also occurs on our side of the house.
Part of the reason we see women as objects is because oftentimes the only context in which we see them naked is in a sexual way.
Seeing more of them nonsexually deobjectifies their bodies and means we have less " asking for " stories.
Like, if more people in society are showing their bodies more frequently, there's a lot less of, " well, she was dressed in a specific way.
She should have been dressed in a different way. "
We also think that it destigmatizes things like fat and cellulite.
We're bombarded with perfect imagery of nude bodies, but now we'll see that in the reality, the majority of people aren't perfect.
For these reasons, proud to propose.