The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit corporal punishment.
We would prohibit this in all spheres, so in schools, in homes, by any of authorities.
So like gymnastics classes, dance classes etcetera.
Two main areas of clash: first we wanna talk about harms to the individual.
Corporal punishment promotes a distrust and avoidance and avoidance behaviors, that are actually quite dangerous.
Because when you are beaten for an undesirable trait or behavior, you don't actually learn not to do it again, rather you learn not to get caught.
This is because we often see that children make a weighing calculus between whether or not they should take an action.
And if they can come up with a like rational reason not to do it, IE it'll hurt someone's feelings or it'll set about precedent, then often times kids are pretty reasonable, and they recognize that it's going to be worse for them the long term so they choose not to do it.
But if you simplify that decision and take out that rational reasoning, then all you leave them with is like a physical pro and con.
So if they can get away with not getting caught but still get the benefits of whatever that action provided them, then they're obviously still going to take it, just based on like mathematical reasoning essentially of this child.
So we think that what happens on their side of the house is that you actually have people who are more likely to lie to authority figures.
This is bad both because it means there's no proper oversight but also because these behaviors, if you're beating them for it, are probably behaviors that were either dangerous or bad or potentially dangerous.
And so what this means is that not only there is the direct harm of whatever that behavior was occurring, but it also means that if something really bad occurred, children be too scared to come to an authority figure to try and fix it.
We think this is how things spiral out of control.
Like when children are too afraid to go to an authority figure, that's when they tried fix it on their own, that's when really dangerous stuff happens.
And we would prefer for that to not occur.
Second though, we want to talk about how this delegitimizes the space.
Because a lot of the time corporal punishment occurs in schools, which is clearly supposed to be this like learning open space in which children need to feel comfortable, because they need to accomplish at a lot of very productive work there.
But if you no longer feel secure in that space, because it is essentially a location of a trauma, we think that you also can no longer learn there.
And that's a really big problem because if you're going to be attending this school for a long period of time, as often occurs when there's like an elementary school that contains classes from like kindergarten to fifth, it basically like taints your entire learning experience in that area.
We also just wanna drop statistics here.
Like statistically corporal punishment is tied to increased depression and low self esteem.
Our second area of clash has to do with harms to society.
Harms to society.
First, it promotes violence.
It tells children that you can beat someone into submission, and that having more power physically makes you more right.
Because essentially that's the model you're providing.
Teachers aren't actually explaining to them why they're correct or parents, rather they're just beating them and saying: " look, like because I hit you, because I'm discouraging this behavior, like I must be right.
You must listen to me because of my physical prowess. "
And we think this is a really big problem because in the end all this does is creates a world in which rather than looking to reason with individuals and understand their feelings, children are just looking to gain as much power over these individuals as possible, because that's how they've been taught they can actually show that they are correct or right.
We also think that it promotes for traditional power imbalances.
Statistically children of colors and those with disabilities are going to get a lot more punishment corporally than those without disabilities, or children who are white.
And so we think that a lot of the time it just promotes those same kind of things that we've been trying to break free of since the civil rights movement.
And we also think it allows parents to cover up abuse.
Because in the end, we think that op has to point out a distinct line between corporal punishment and like physical long term abuse.
And moreover they need to point out why governmental bodies are going to be able to track this effectively, because we think that they just won't.
For these reasons, proud to propose.