Don't lower the age of consent.
Look I think the problem is with the way that danny tries to characterize when these kinds of laws are actually put in place because there is a never there's never a world in which two underage kids are engaged in sexual relations and one of them gets sued because at that point both have equal legal standing to sue the other and there just isn't incentive to do so especially since this is oftentimes an expensive and painful process and if the children aren't collaborating it's really hard for kids to do it on their behalf for parents to do it on their behalf when it's just two kids being kids or something similar.
And it is also the case that if it is someone who is under age but maybe that other person is just a little bit older so maybe it's like a high school junior and a high school senior who is eighteen or like a high school senior and a college freshman those also very rarely get prosecuted because it requires a collective action desire to prosecute these cases.
Recognize that we are discussing is when there are large age caps between a child and the person with which they're having relations with the majority of the time or when you have like a smaller gap where two people of the same age but one person was significantly abusive to the extent that we need to engage these kinds of laws in order to protect the individual who is the victim.
Tow main areas of clash, first on protecting minors.
This basically just builds off of what I just said ie minors need to have special legal standing in order to protect them in a way that is more than adults have because recognize it is already incredibly difficult to bring cases up about intimate partner violence or any kind of abuse or manipulation or stockholm syndrome that might occur between adults because it is already hard to have courts believe or view these kinds of cases seriously.
This is even more difficult for children who are automatically discounted based on their age of being able to have the kind of agency or to be trusted in these situations.
So we think what the age of consent laws do is they say look even if you don't believe this kid about what this other person did to them you have no choice now because this child is under age and this person committed a crime just by being with them.
We think that at the end of the day there is a lot there are a lot of relationships that children engage with with people who are older that simply ought not happen so the other layer to this is that even if we are not attempting to like we think that even if this doesn't actually change like the actions of the kid like we think that very rarely does like a fifteen or sixteen year old care about the age of consent laws they just kind of care about like whatever they prefer at that moment we think that adults are old enough to take this calculus into mind when they're taking action so maybe I might stop myself from engaging with a child because I know that if I do so that is that would mike might rebound on to me because legally even if I don't have a like personal discussed in the way that I should.
Our second area of clash is about giving kids an excuse.
First we think that this prevents us from aging children way too early.
We think we live in a hyper sexual society that oftentimes like to likes to enforce our sexual stereotypes and expectations on to those who are under age but we think that predation is actually incredibly problematic.
Like the differences of experience even between what danny uses as an example of like a high school junior and a college junior is incredibly large like these are years and years of experience understanding of the real world knowledge of how sex works like knowledge of manipulation when it comes to these things then all of that is a really harsh emotional environment to expose a child too so we think that even if this involves some level paternalization insofar as sex is incredibly complicated and has infinitely many consequences when it comes to pregnancy or disease we think that it is important to take that extra step with people in our society who don't necessarily understand what it means yet.
Proud to oppose.