Sure, fracking has side effects equally to any other drilling technology that is currently used in order to get natural gas and oil.
We think the burden for gov side was not just to show that there are bad things associated with fracking, but rather to show that these bad things are so much worse than the alternatives that you you ought ban it.
Will did not do this in the speech and thus cannot win this round.
The earthquakes he talks about have been addressed and are minuscule to others and any other like environmental impacts aside are the same as equal as equal drilling techniques.
Two main areas of clash, the first on technological development.
We tell you that fracking is the most efficient system currently available to get gas and oil.
Well, will goes: but what about what about wind and solar power?
Recognize the reason that we do not have wind and solar power right now is because it is not considered profitable to engage in these practices.
We don't think that a world in which fracking is banned means it becomes profitable to develop wind and solar technology.
Rather, we just go back to the old school drilling techniques that we've been using all along because it's still cheaper than doing millions of dollars of research.
The only time we're going to be doing wind and solar power research is when either it becomes cheap to do so and profitable to do so, or we get so desperate that we have no choice.
Given that neither of these circumstances have come about, the alternatives will talks about our unfeasible.
Meanwhile, fracking provides a way to get natural gas, which is a lot better for the environment than oil and other things that rise CO two emissions much higher than natural gas.
More than this though, we think that banning something like fracking means you stop the research into this technology.
Currently, there are multiple corporations that are researching cheaper and more efficient ways to frack but with efficiency and cheapness with this research, also comes safety.
We tell you our side of the house provides a long-term solution for the kind of side effects that will talks about, because allowing people to be able to research it means that the issues that people have can be addressed through technological development.
More than this, though, we think our second area of clash has to do with benefits, because we think that what fracking has done for a lot of nations, not just the US, is decreased the dependence on large oil conglomerates and states in the middle east.
Being able to harvest your own natural gas and your own oil at cheap prices, while hiring your own population, is incredibly economically beneficial.
Not only are your gas prices no longer tied to large oversee conglomerates that you have no control over but more than this, you actually benefit by being able to give jobs to your populations and being able to widen your research sector.
This is good, both on like an individual economic scale, more jobs that are often fairly high paying means more spending power to the consumer, better economy, less unemployment, but also on a wider like and cheaper gas prices mean that people can drive to more places and feel more comfortable and spend the money they would have spent on gas elsewhere, but also on a wider scale, where now that large taxes that are levied against oil and gas actively go to things like hospitals and public education.
We think this never happens on their side of the house because the because you have lower rates of domestic oil gas and oil production, which means you're only taxing your international stuff, and it's just not going to be as much money as what we have on our side of the house.
But more than this, we think it's important to notice that being able to distance yourself from large conglomerates allows you to be truly independent.
It's a problem that in the status quo a lot of countries just are afraid to say anything against middle eastern groups, because they're afraid of the the oil prices going up and afraid of being manipulated.
We think taking this away is good.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.