The motion for today's debate is that we should lower the age of consent.
Currently in the majority of states the age of consent is at eighteen.
We think that it would be preferable if this age was closer to fourteen.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the arbitrariness of the current restriction.
Our side acknowledges that there is a line when children are too young for sex.
But we also think that this line ends at some point after puberty when your body is developed, and you've been exposed to things like sex ed in schools, and you've had years and years of media programming you about being a sexual person and what sex is.
So we think that at the point that teenagers consume so much sexual media that tells them that they are sexual objects, whether this is correct or incorrect, it doesn't matter.
The point is that this is what they are seeing on television it is unjust to limit them legally when the rest of society is pushing them to be sexual figures.
It's like putting a plate of food in front of a dog and then being angry when it eats from it.
If society tells you over and over, now is the time for you to be sexual look at these figures on television who are your age and your type, and they are all doing it so you ought be too.
It is unfair to then say that you somehow cannot participate in this even though we've basically been telling you that it is your duty all along.
More than this though, once you're in the same environment as people above the age of the consent, so a lot of the time high school juniors and seniors tend to already be eighteen years old, and just because freshmen and sophomores aren't doesn't mean that they aren't in the same environment.
We think the age is a very arbitrary dividing factor.
Because if you're the same in every other respect and society acknowledges you to be the same in every other in every other expect respect through placing you in the same classes and expecting you to fulfill the same responsibilities, we think this also means that they have to place the same kind of standard when it comes to being sexually active.
So if you're saying that I am the same as these people in every respect, but then placing that limit on sexual activity this is unjust.
Our second area of clash has to do with ending the associated pragmatic issues.
First, the frivolous legality that drags along behind laws regarding the age of consent often lead to to frivolous impacts.
So a lot of the time you have situations in which two teenagers are having sex and then the high schoolers parents find out and they press charges on behalf of their children.
Obviously this is done oftentimes without the consent of the child and it is often done in a way that is unhelpful and it ends up ruining both of these people's lives and distracting them from what they ought be focusing on which is school work.
We also think that a lot of the time what happens is that high schoolers get permanently placed on sex offenders lists for sending things like nudes to each other.
So maybe we should have an educational seminars on why sending nudes to each other is bad, but making it so that that person cannot live near a school for the rest of their life has to declaim they're like sex offender position for every job that they earn, we think that this is far too great a punishment for just sending nudes between you and your high school girlfriend and that they should not be within the limit of restriction.
More than this though, we think that removing the illegality from sex opens doorways for better communication.
Teens are less afraid to come to parents with questions about STDs and protection when they feel like it's not a like illegal thing for them to do.
So my father yelling at me that I can't have sex because I'm too young only made me much more afraid to come to him or my mom when I actually started experimenting because they had already placed this thing in my mind where if I do this I'm a bad person.
But if you don't label people as bad people for beginning to explore their sexuality early on, they're much more likely to be able to go and communicate to you what they're afraid of or whether they have questions.
And we think that it's infinitely more important to decreased teen pregnancy and STDs than it is to defend some arbitrary standard of legality.
For these reasons proud to propose.