Don't lower the age of consent.
James' model is stupid because it is basically the status quo.
Recognize that the that sixteen is already the age of consent in the majority of states.
So what we should really be talking about is a much younger age of consent than what james is pretending it is.
Don't let him score a lot of the motion this way, force him to recognize the actual impact of his action.
In response to this kind of model, we're going to debate the round as though it's about sixteen year olds.
But I want you to recognize that the implications of a lower age of consent is that you also lower the age of the kind of like margin of error or standard deviation on that consent, which means his side of the house is having like fourteen year olds who are more likely to be sexually active because the age of consent has been lowered.
Moreover the age of consent doesn't actually prevent minors from having sex, but it does allow them to more easily push for legal action if they are being taken advantage of.
So we'd say that there's a we'd say that this is actually a really big difference in terms of the legal outcomes because it's just not the case that you get the majority of the impacts that james is worried about unfairly, right?
Like you're not going to have people who were sexting at sixteen on the sex offender list just because it's very rare for those individuals to get punished because even when romeo and juliet laws aren't on the books, the majority of people don't want to enforce them and the majority of states don't enforce them because neither of those fifteen year olds is pushing for enforcement.
Whereas when it comes to like someone who's actually being taken advantage of in these situations it's a lot easier with age of consent laws being higher because then instead of having to go through the whole like intimate partner violence or sexual harassment suits all you or sexual assault suits you just have to say look this person is older than me I am below the age of consent which streamlines that entire process and it helps to protect the individuals who are caught in those situations.
We would also say that the difference between a sixteen and a seventeen or even an eighteen year old is really significant.
Like it might be arbitrary and that it's like people can be more mature at times but on average we'd say that generally eighteen is significantly higher maturity age, especially since at that point you're becoming an adult in a lot of other ways like you're graduating high school all of these things are changing in your life that a sixteen year old hasn't even come close to dealing with.
So we think that this is actually a meaningful difference in terms of age as well.
With that, two main arguments, first on protecting minors.
People under seventeen are definitely a different level of maturity than those above.
They have less experience to contextualize the world and are just beginning to go through a lot of the physical changes or like midway through them that would allow them to have sex in the first place.
And even if some kids of that age are mature enough, we'd say the majority aren't.
James keeps talking about how these kids are having consensual sex but we think the problem is that he's going to be making it a lot more difficult for those who aren't having consensual sex to report it.
Since on his side of the house they'll have to go through the whole criminal investigation into whether it was actually rape while on ours the agent itself is enough to protect the kids and make it statutory and justify things like restraining orders, so it keeps them from having to go through that process.
Like recognize it's really rare that two kids are sexting or having sex and they're sent to jail because they're the same age, like no one cares enough to report them at that point and when someone does it's usually because there's something bad going on that we just don't see yet.
So we think it's actually really good to have this kind of extra check.
Our second argument is about preventing predatory behavior.
We want people who are older to try not to to who are older to not try and take advantage of kids.
Like sixteen year olds are just like middle schoolers or freshman in high school or like at maximum right they're sophomores.
And it's good that you prevent seniors or juniors from hitting on them could also that you prevent people who may be just entered college.
You don't want to contribute to the sexualization of young bodies, lowering the age of consent allows people to think sexually about others at a very young age and this forces people into sex when they're unlikely to be ready just because the rest of society has already labeled them as such.
Proud to oppose.