The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish intelligence tests.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why these tests are fake.
First recognize that any test result on the intelligence test changes based on your daily like feeling and very arbitrary daily factors, like maybe you were sick that day.
Studies have shown that you are likely to perform x times worse than had you been healthy and given that there's never a world in which we can make sure that every child or every adult like every individual is able to take the intelligence test under the same conditions and personal conditions, we don't think we should be relying on such an arbitrary test.
Second though, recognize that intelligence tests only show a number but do not showcase the actual potential skill of an individual because even if you are incredibly intelligent that doesn't matter if you're not able to motivate yourself or if you're unable to like force or like learn that material or access that material.
So we also think then that it prevents self-motivation and striving.
Numbers are inherently limiting.
There are two worlds in this debate.
The first is one one which the child gets a high score in which we think they're still harm because it promotes laziness on their behalf and they don't feel like they have to work for something because they're not really intelligent and they think that should compensate.
But then there's another child who gets a lower score and we think the problem here is that once you find out that you are not truly unintelligent you surrender yourself to that biological function and don't consider yourself capable of doing better than you have been.
And we think this is really bad because it prevents you from being able to try harder because it doesn't seem worth it.
But we also think that there's just not meaningful predictors of success in the first place.
A high IQ score is not enough to succeed.
You need to be able to have the education, motivate yourself, etcetera.
But people still end up making assumptions and so we need to let children develop on their own regardless of other people's expectations and that can only be achieved in a world in which those people don't know the child's number, and we think it's a better world when no one knows it.
But finally under this point we think it ruins self-esteem because kids who find out that they have low scores oftentimes end up feeling very sadly about themselves, they feel inadequate, and they feel like they can't compete with other classmates.
Meanwhile it also ruins the esteem in a different way of those who get a very high score in that it overblows the their egos and allows them to think that they are better than others or better than their classmates and so it affects the way that they interactive others they're also they're are always going to do so in a more snobby or hurtful way.
Our second area of clash is about stopping the use specifically in schools, where it is incredibly widespread right now.
Oftentimes there are like programs and specific it's the barrier for like specific groups for children that are called often gifted or talented or enrichment or similar things in which kids don't get in which kids have to take an IQ test and if their IQ tests meets a certain barrier they're granted access.
And when kids take this exam and don't get granted access, they often feel very poorly about themselves, they question their own intelligence, they're unlikely to trust in themselves and their academics, and it also inspires like light bullying and light discrimination when maybe you got in but you know someone else who didn't and it makes you feel more important than this than them and thus makes you feel justified in abusing or being rude to them.
We also think that there's an effect that IQ tests have when teachers find them up find them out.
A lot of the time they will pay special attention to someone with a high score because they feel like that person is more likely to intake their information in a positive and constructive way and they also often times give up on those who had lower scores because they feel like they they're going to waste their time anyway because these students are inherently limited by the score that they received.
We think this is bad signaling to the student and we also think it prevents them from getting the right attention that they deserve and so don't allow intelligence tests any longer.