The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish term limits.
Two main areas of clash, first on why this creates a more democratic system.
Recognize that it allows peoples' preferences to control outcomes while term limits remove individuals' options and limit democracy.
It's paternalistic of the government to limit terms because they assume that people can't kick out politicians who are bad for them or who have gone sour over time.
Rather we think that the government is supposed to be a reflection of the preferences of the constituents which only happens when people can actualize their preferences without limits on who their options are.
Recognize also that a lot of the reasons that term limits exist are to prevent like endemic corruption or like long term like poor policy etcetera but insofar as these individuals need to get reelected over and over, there's a massive incentive not to mess up what you're doing or not to go against what your constituents elected you for because they simply will not re-elect you.
This also eliminates the last hurrah effect that we often see where because like a certain congressman or certain senator knows that they have no more terms after that, they are way more likely to go out and do some radical policy that doesn't reflect what they were elected to vote on or what their constituents desire because they know that there's not going to be any kind of re-election and we think this is actually inherently democratic because antidemocratic because regardless of what party you're on regardless of like one particular politician's last hurrah being good or bad for you personally because like we think that it oftentimes what's been democrats doing a lot of good versus like doing a lot of good in like more moderate districts but we also think it could spin to like republicans doing really really awful things and more like democratic in more moderate districts of their own.
So we don't think that that's what part of the conversation rather we think that like regardless of whether or not you personally agree or disagree with the policy, it's bad when that is the policy of the majority of a region and then their representative goes on not to do it because they don't have any consequences if they don't.
And we think that's exactly the kind of world that term limits creates because it creates a situation in which there is no accountability, there's nothing that we can do about them going off on their own and so we think that it's bad.
Our second area of clash is about how it's good for public public policy.
Recognize that part of the reason for bureaucracy is that with congress people and elected officials are constantly rotated so it's really hard to pass consistent policy.
This is especially true since every new person has an incentive to try something new and put some new policy out there because they want to distinguish themselves from their predecessors so there are actually no incentives to continue working on old legislature or if like someone left office right as like something was about to pass there's no incentive to continue pushing it if they were the main motivating force behind it.
So we think that that's really bad.
Without term limits we incentivize coalition building that allows bipartisan legislature into the long term because there's less of an incentive to show animosity when you plan on being there for awhile and you need to show long term growth to your constituents.
We think that the incentive structure for what you accomplish fundamentally changes.
In the status quo individuals are fine with showing short term growth because they know they're only going to be there for a short term so whether that short term growth is pissing off every single republican because you're a democrat and so your constituents are excited that you're taking hardline stances or whether it's passing really small stick policy none of that is actually impacted in the long term.
Rather on our side of the house because you're going to be there for a really long time because you're worried about re-election for multiple multiple years you have to show that you can work with other people and show that you can provide long term good policy.
The current system only allows the former and we think that's incredibly problematic.
For these reasons, proud to propose.