Don't ban alternative medicine.
Two main arguments, first on why there isn't a right to ban.
We think the government can only ban things when there are massive overflow harms to people other than the individual who is self-administering.
This is because we recognize that even when something is harmful it is within someone's rights to autonomously harm themselves, as long as it doesn't harm other people who didn't opt into that harm.
Alternative medicine only has the potential to harm the individuals who are taking it, so the government can't ban it.
Like sure the government bans things like heroin, but this is the same government that doesn't ban things like cigarettes.
So when danny just says look there's this thing where we ban heroin and opioids, he neglects the fact that this is not because it might be bad for the individual but because it oftentimes has overflow harms.
First on the way that government expenditures work in interacting with that, but second on the family and other groups that are affected by heroin addicts.
But moreover in doing this danny places a really high burden on himself.
He has to show that alternative medicine is as harmful as things like heroin which it's just not.
We think that all actively harmful compounds don't make it to market because they'd get sued out of existence.
So we just don't think that like actively harmful alternative medicines exist.
Danny doesn't get the right worst and best case scenario.
The worst case scenario is that alternative medicine just doesn't do anything at all like a sugar pill, and the best case is that it works at a cheaper cost and without having to go to the hospital.
Our second argument is about the way that it works and is good for people.
People who use alternative medicine are often those who wouldn't go to the hospital on either side of the house.
This is maybe because they don't have health insurance, maybe it's because they distrust hospitals for reasons that might have to do with past racial situations or past like personal interactions with hospitals.
Like we know that hospital staff oftentimes automatically discount the pain of people of color or of women simply because of internalized biases and we think it is often legitimate then that these individuals don't want to go there in the first place and won't go regardless of how bad the injury is.
So we think that in the very least what alternative medicine does is it literally provides an alternative for individuals who otherwise would have nothing.
We also just think that a lot of alternative medicine is a lot more helpful than danny gives it credit for.
Like current pharma is massively based in screening natural compounds and natural molecules that have been isolated and then making their interaction stronger via chemical manipulation.
What true alternative medicine is just taking the natural forms of those compounds and personally administering them yourself.
This might be less effective but it is often still effective to some extent.
Danny is worried about the opportunity cost.
Like we just don't understand where the government funding argument came from in the first place.
Like we don't know what government ever funds alternative medicine.
They barely fund regular medicine.
Like we think what these usually are are private companies that often have to ascribe to government regulations but this doesn't actually impact government funding.
And even if the government is funding alternative medicine, the only world in which we see money going there as if it's something that shows promise.
So that's just something that we think would be good either way because it probably means it's likely to work.
Proud to oppose.