The right to internet access shouldn't be protected.
Look, we think that the core thing to recognize here is that the government world has to defend why this kind of right needs to be protected infinitely.
Like sure, maybe we can believe that people should generally have access to the internet.
Maybe we believe that having access to the internet is good.
But there's a difference between thinking that something is a good and verses thinking that something should be legally and principally protected as a right.
So we think that our side of the house can still recognize why the internet is a good thing and why people should have access to but we just don't think that the government should have a large role in making sure that that right is protected.
Two main arguments: first, on why it's not a real right.
We see that there are often situations where people should and do have their internet rights taken away if someone is accessing really violent content online, or is participating in criminal activity using the internet as the go between.
When we say that something is a right that needs to be protected, those need to be inalienable.
IE they exist without having any kind of limitations.
Even if someone has done a bad thing we would still see that as a right that ought not be taken away things like the right to life, the right to free speech, etcetera.
These are things that we do not compromise regardless of the situation besides for occasional mitigating factors IE if someone's in jail maybe they don't have an absolute right to free speech but you still can't like further punish them for utilizing free speech.
James said that it facilitates the right to things like speech and assembly and we think that even without specific protections, most people have access to things like basic messaging and social media networks.
So they can still use this to facilitate their basic right but the bigger issue is whether you need all of the internet for facilitative rights and we just don't think that that is the case.
Like we think that sure, some aspects might be beneficial but you don't have to have infinite access to all of the internet in order to get that.
Moreover, we just don't think that it is a like definitive like definitional part of accessing those rights, right?
Like we think that someone can still have free speech if they don't have internet access.
Sure, it might be easier to have free speech with internet access but it does not depend on internet access.
So we don't think that you can just get away with saying because it is facilitative it has to be protected, rather he would have to show why without internet access there can be no free speech and then maybe he'd have some offense.
Our second argument is about internet as a utility.
We think that internet is vastly comparable to things like electricity.
Like yes, the government should provide some basic infrastructure to make sure it is accessible but we don't think that the government has an obligation to make sure that it is free or accessible in ways beyond that.
James talks a lot about how people should be able to access whatever content they want but he forgets that content to something that gets produced by individuals and corporations.
So we don't understand why we should undercut their rights to the market to protect people's rights to internet access especially when internet isn't absolutely necessary to life or any of the rights that james lists.
He talks about the marketplace of ideas.
Like yeah, maybe you we think it's a good idea when people can talk about all their viewpoints but first, we just don't think this always plays out the way that james says.
Like he talks a lot about how problematic ideations can get talked out of existence on the internet.
But we think this just means he's never been on things like the dark side of reddit where you get plenty of really problematic few points that never get talked out of existence because these people just aren't willing to compromise or individuals who would do the talking out of existence aren't accessing those fears.
But also we just think this argument is dependent on proving that everyone should have access in the first place because even if it is true that it might be beneficial to have people talking about these things in the marketplace of ideas, if we show you that the internet isn't necessary to that, he still doesn't win on that argument.
Like just because there is a potential positive impact doesn't mean it's a mandated right that we need to protect.
Proud to oppose.