The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish standardized testing.
Two many areas of clash: the first is why we think that standardized testing unfairly benefits those who are already privileged.
Standardized testing is a skills game that can essentially be taught if you're willing to put enough time and more importantly, money, into it.
There're entire books full of tactics, such as process of elimination or other ways in which you game the test in order to get the highest score.
The problem with this is that it isn't a test of your intelligence or your ability to study or any of the other skills that you were actually need, once you get accepted to university, but rather just a test of how well you can memorize the tips and tricks given to you by your tutor.
However, if I cannot afford that tutor in the first place, I'm certainly going to do worse on the SATs than other people who did have access to the tutor because their parents were wealthier.
What this means is that the SATs and other standardized tests skew who gets into universities even more in favor of wealthy and typically white school children.
The amount of money that you make shouldn't define your future, and we think that's what standardized testing represents because, of course, there are always going to be inequalities that favor those who are richer on both sides of the house.
But putting so much pressure on one test that is exclusively available to those who are more wealthy, unlike, let's say, extracurriculars, which maybe you will be able to have more access to it if you don't also have to work a job, but at least it is available to you regardless of that status.
We tell you that tutoring and other such things are not available to you regardless of the kind of effort that you're willing to put in, because it is exclusively based on the amount of money you have.
We think that you shouldn't allow this to exist as well.
Without standardized tests, we think that you even the playing field and allow it to be more leveled, because you can let recommendations and extracurriculars and participation in class matter a lot more.
Currently, the divide of power that standardized tests have over your future is too much and favors the privilege in a much too great of a way.
We think that our side of the house greatly decreases this and allows the displacement of power to occur across more holistic methods of of looking into children.
Are second area of clash has to do with why it places too much pressure on non-holistic skills.
We think that testing is a bad metric.
You're not going to use these standardized testing skills in college.
It is much more important that you are able to communicate with your peers and your teachers and have strong study skills.
But these aren't the skills that are measured by a test, so why should it be worth over fifty percent of your chances of getting in?
We think that it is that by overemphasizing standardized test, you are sending the wrong message to children.
Telling them that if you can get these skills down just to pass this one test, you are going to be able to succeed in the rest of your life is incorrect, and unless you change the way that you appraise children for college, you're not going to be able to change the message you send.
Finally, a third area of clash.
Anxiety and depression and other mental illnesses are rising in the younger population, and the rise is largely attributed to standardized testing.
When you have to put so much effort and so much stress onto one test, and you have all this pressure because it can count for so much of your future, this causes a lot of undue anxiety in children who are much too young to handle it.
We think that this can lead to long-term problems and difficulty with handling things like stress, and we don't think that this should be what happens.
It is unnecessary and thus, should not be risking the health of our children.
Recognize that things like anxiety and depression can also manifest in physical symptoms, such as heart palpitations and increased risk for heart attacks in the future, and we just don't understand why it is happening.
At the point that these tests are unholistic, at the point that they aren't actually what you need in order to better yourself in your future, and at the point of they're unfairly privileging those who are better those who have more money, why do they still exist?
For these reasons, proud to propose.