The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize public transportation.
What we mean by this is that you'd be putting more money into expanding and building new systems of public transport, but also putting money into making individual tickets cheaper.
So, like, currently, a charliecard in boston is two dollars and twenty five cents for every swipe onto the subway.
For people who travel to work, this oftentimes means that they're spending at least like six dollars a day traveling to and from work.
This is really problematic because for some people, that's almost an entire hour of their work and probably shouldn't be that expensive.
Two main areas of clash: first, on providing access.
Because recognize that having a car is an expensive privilege that not everyone has the money to access but unfortunately, in today's society, it's become almost a necessary expenditure.
It provides a lot of opportunities in that it becomes easier and cheaper to get to work, to school.
Even to do things like doing your basic shopping becomes much more time consuming when you're using public transport and much more difficult when you're having to navigate tons and tons of people on the subway with bags and bags of groceries.
Commutes add hours to people's days and loads of stress.
Like, take it from me, I worked a job that had a six had an hour commute by bus, but took twenty minutes by by car.
The problem here is that I'm much less likely to take this job because of this commune, even if it was paying me more than a job in my area just because of all the stress that it's adding to you.
We also think that it makes it really difficult to schedule things ahead of time because you're dependent on your public transport behavior.
Your bus is late, sucks for you.
You just failed an interview that you missed partially because of it.
If you want people to succeed, you have to set them up with the resources to do so.
How much money you currently have shouldn't determine your future opportunities.
The problem here is that people are blocked from reaching their full potential by a lack of transport.
Like, if a lot of people really want to continue their education, but the nearest, cheapest community college isn't something they can reach by bus or by train, and so it's something that is out of options for them.
People should be able to have equal access to these kinds of basic opportunities.
It shouldn't just be those who are rich enough to afford gas or to afford a car.
Our second area of clash is about the environment.
Recognize that car emissions contribute the most out of anything else to global warming right now, and if you put more people into the same vehicle, you decrease those individual emissions, especially in cities where you have large amounts of traffic pileups.
And in those areas you literally just have cars standing in the streets streets, like shooting emissions out, because of and this is like really, really bad.
I think that we need public transport to be a comparable option even to those who have cars, and that way you actually get them into these buses and trains and you're able to actually reduce those emissions.
We think that in a perfect world, we'd be solving the problem of car emissions through public transport because we live, basically, at this point, in a collection of mostly urban areas that are heavily populated.
We think we care less about those that are more rural, they already have less cars and less emissions.
And so if we are able to like make it profitable and make it an incentive to get people onto trains and get people onto public transport, we think that you could actually do a lot of good, both for individuals who can now afford to access the same as opportunities, but also for the environment.
For those reasons, proud to propose.