Don't ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
To make it incredibly clear, we are fine with regulations being placed on whether or not there has to be parental consent and, specifically in the case of tattoos, we think we are fine with an age limit that is slightly below the age of a minor.
So I think that we can easily defend something that like people can only get tattoos if they're over fifteen years of age and have parental consent, you can only get piercings if you are if you have a parent with you who is like going along with you.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on why there's no harm, because sam spends a really long time trying to amplify the dangers of piercing and tattoos.
He talks about the infections that children get, he talks about how it gets scar tissue, etcetera, and I think that right off the bat, we just have to recognize that none of this is actually factually accurate.
Like there isn't a world in which the majority of piercings that children get become massive problems.
It is relatively easy for either the parent who's in charge of the child or for the child themselves, especially ones that are over ten years old, to clean an ear piercing with hydrogen peroxide twice a day.
Like we also just think there doesn't exist a world in which any tattoo artist tattoos a small child.
Recognize that tattooing is a risky legal activity in that if you tattoo a child and then that child's parents go on and sue you for tattooing them without parental consent, or maybe you were dangerous, or maybe your needles had diseases, then you're out of business.
This especially is true for reputable tattoo artists who, I think, is who we are debating about in this round.
Given that bad tattoo artists are going to exist on both sides of the house, the question becomes what are good tattoo artists likely to do?
And the we tell you that there's never a world in which they are going to give a tattoo that doesn't have clear consent, that doesn't have an age-appropriate source, because of the legal risk that children carry.
And we also just think that like when we talk about piercing specifically and we abstract them from tattoos a little bit, it's not the case these are like permanent alterations to someone's body that that child can never undo.
Recognize that the normalized piercing that younger children will receive will be in an ear piercing.
Not only is this actually safer when the child is below three years of age, because it is during a time when they will not mess with that piercing causing some of the harms that sam is so worried about, but also this is something that is incredibly impermanent.
I can remove a piercing even if I've had it for over twenty years, and if I give it a couple of months, it will still close up.
That is the way that body tissue works.
So we think that at the point that the, like, part at, like, half of what we are discussing isn't even like permanent, but all of it isn't an issue in terms of massive harms, we don't understand why we ought be limiting minors in this way of self-expression.
This brings us our second area of clash, which is about self-actualization.
We think that age is an arbitrary number.
It is based, rather than on anything concrete, just on the number of years that you have lived, which doesn't actually predict anything like your intelligence or your ability to do things in any way other than physiological.
We think in the same way that there are immature adults, there are children who are capable of internalizing the impacts of having a piercing or a tattoo, and we don't even think that this is the minority insofar as these are often people who have been surrounded by this kind of media, have looked at the impacts, have lived with people who have both of these items, we just don't think it's the case that it's something that children don't understand.
But more than this, I think that we have to recognize why these are things that are important to let people do.
In the same way that I, as an adult, have preferences based on the society around me, I want to keep in a relatively good shape so that I can be considered attractive, I like to keep my hair short so that I can put it up for lab, like simple, simple things, we think that children have these desires to.
Ear piercings are incredibly common.
They allow you to accessorize in ways that are self-expressing.
Oftentimes, tattoos can be culturally and emotionally valuable insofar as like like many people have like memories they want to immortalize on their bodies.
We don't think that age makes you exempt from this, and we find it incredibly problematic that government does.
Proud to oppose.