The motion for today's debate is that we should ban extreme sports.
What we mean by this is that there would be no competitions or public events in which extreme sports are featured or promoted.
We think that there are two scenarios in which a government can ban something: first, that it has uncontextualized personal harm and the government is protecting their citizens essentially from themselves, or in a situation in which the spillover harms society.
This is because the government has a interest in the good of society, given that this is what they are first created to protect, but second, because a harm to society oftentimes then impacts the stability of said government or the stability of said state.
Any one of these can be met in order to justify a ban, and we tell you that extreme sports meets both.
First, let's talk about the personal harm.
When you do an extreme sport correctly, there usually is no physical harm, because it's as simple as maneuvering a mechanism and at the end of the day, that machine, if maneuvered properly, will not hurt you.
Because it is like a matter of technique rather than a matter of like anything else, people often imagine that they're going to be okay because they cannot contextualize themselves making these mistakes.
This is oftentimes called the god complex, and a lot of the time it is basically just that people think that they are unlikely to make mistakes or essentially unbeatable.
The problem with this is that especially in terms of extreme sports, people are very, very accident-prone and oftentimes miscalculate how successful they're actually going to be.
As such, extreme sports has one of the highest death rates of any other more brutal physical activity, even exceeding those such as boxing or wrestling.
It's also an incredibly useless sport pragmatically.
There isn't a physical fitness aspect and it's very expensive in that you have to fund like bikes and other like mechanical equipment.
It also specifically targets kids, using like children's sports equipment and like starting events at a very young age.
These children are even dumber and are more likely to make mistakes, but they also have but they're also much more fearless than an adult.
Whereas an adult might look down a cliff and like sometimes question their ability to go down it, a child is likely to just drive over it, especially if no one is watching.
We think that at the point that the government is justified in banning bike riding without helmets, they're also justified in banning driving down a cliff on a child's bike insofar as both of these actions are equally stupid, and one of them is actually much more dangerous than the other.
There's a much much higher risk of me dying as I jump off a cliff rather than me dying because I fell off my bicycle while I was riding down my neighborhood path.
Our second area of clash is why extreme sports specifically promote bad societal norms.
First, we'd like to talk about toxic masculinity, because extreme sports embody this in their purest form insofar as the entire sport is literally whoever can do the biggest trick and the most dangerous trick gets the most credit and, like, is the best person at this thing.
This promotes this concept that in order to be real men or truly masculine or truly masters of the sport, you have to put yourself in danger and prove yourself to be better than others.
We think this is mentally problematic for the people participating, but it's also a very patriarchal institution.
There are very few women who participate in these kinds of circles, and it breeds very sexist views because it is so closed off.
In the same way that trump can defend his locker room talk, we think the same kind of thing occurs in these circles, because when you don't have women in a certain circle to contract problematic norms or call out bad behaviors, you're going to have men supporting each other in these bad behaviors, because they like to have these taboo moments with each other.
It also creates a dangerous future for kids to aspire to.
As we told you earlier, they uniquely market to kids, as they use children's bikes, scooters and skateboards, and they're easily accessible, because most children have a scooter in their garage from a fairly young age and have access to training youtube videos.
As such, we don't think these things should be allowed in society any longer.
Happy to propose.