The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the right to silence.
The model for this in the status quo there is a right to remain silent which means that the silence of an individual in like in response to a question cannot be interpreted or seen as a marker of their guilt.
This is primarily in terms of the way the judge or the jury is going to use a silence.
In our world we think that people can still be quiet, they still don't have to answer their questions especially right after an arrest or before their lawyer gets there but now judge jury et cetera can be suspicious of that silence and if that silence is to continue can use it in their rulings.
Two main areas of clash, first on why principally we don't think the right to remain silent is a real right.
Recognize the right to remain silent is there to prevent unjust intrusions of the state and ensure fairness in court.
But the problem is that it doesn't address either of these issues in any kind of cohesive manner.
We think the state isn't intruding when it asks you a question as part of a criminal investigation.
If anything we think the state is trying to fulfill its role in protecting society and as such we think that any right that could be imagined here the state has the right to suspend for the sake of efficacy and for the sake of preventing someone who could continue to harm society from entering back into it.
If someone stands accused of a crime it isn't an intrusion to ask them questions that you might figure out what that crime is about.
In fact it sounds more like an obstruction of justice when individuals who have been accused can refuse to engage and thus just like circumvent the entire judicial process and like wait for a lawyer who talks pretty enough to get them off.
We think that at the end of the day it matters that individuals are forced to provide answers even if that answer is I am guilty because we think at the end of the day regardless of the law it is factually true that refusing to answer is a suspicious action.
If you have an alibi or you didn't commit the crime there's no reason to remain silent insofar as you can just state what your alibi was or say that you are innocent and so we think that the majority of the time the people who are going to use the right to remain silent are those who don't have an alibi who do happen to be guilty and just don't want to admit it and want to see if they can stretch out the process enough to get a plea deal or get away.
We think that not allowing silence to be seen a suspicious only protects criminals who have nothing to say that would protect them on their own and we think that it like creates a like bad judicial system that is willing to defend individuals who don't have the words to protect themselves or physically don't have the facts to protect themselves.
Our second area of clash is about pragmatics because we think that it creates a really problematic incentive structure when we say that like the right to remain silent to something that exists because people who are guilty now have an incentive to stretch out trials because they know they can drag them out by continually pleading the fifth amendment.
If silence wasn't protected pleading the fifth would be bad for the accused which would encourage others either more honesty or end the proceedings entirely and make the whole system more efficient like we think it's a preferable world in which the incentive structure says like it is bad for you because this will harm you like this will make you look more suspicious and therefore it encourages people to do one of two things like either they're just going to tell the truth because they truly are innocent so they're going to say what their alibi was or they're going to explain why their absence of an alibi doesn't mean that they are guilty or they're going to lie but we actually think it's preferable when criminals lie as well because it is infinitely easier to fact check a lie than fact check a silence because we don't know what that silence means so we think that it's actually a lot more preferable to pack check like when individuals are lying and we actually think it leads to more efficient criminal proceedings because silence can place proceedings on hold because there's no way to disprove it so we think is actually preferable when we have a way of saying this is true or false here's the evidence here the facts and now we move on.
Proud to propose.