The motion for today's debate is that we should disband amnesty international.
What we mean by this is that amnesty international would choose to disband itself and would stop existing as an organization that goes and like does international work.
Two main areas of clash, first on why it enforces a western ideology and why that is incredibly problematic.
Recognize that it's not the case that the western iteration of democracy is the perfect implementation.
We prefer countries and people to self determine as long as they aren't openly preventing some citizens from participating in the democratic process like we want them to have a democracy but we think that that democracy ought be in the iteration that they prefer and that the associated justice systems ought be in the iteration that they prefer ie it's not the case that having a multi like a two-party system is the best case scenario and we see that like groups like england may have a completely different system that also works.
The problem is that we don't allow that same kind of space for budding democracies and so we think what often happens is that amnesty international jumps the gun and goes into countries that are trying to form their own opinions and enforces the western iteration which angers the people within them but is also just like philosophically problematic and we think a really good example of this is like is like like we see that like in the united states the solitary confinement is like an accepted form of punishment eventhough it is incredibly dehumanizing and incredibly psychologically damaging and oftentimes other countries have this ban like even like and like some that we might like look down upon often.
The problem then is the US looks down on countries like iran for going by sharia law eventhough it is something that is like might be arguably less inhumane than locking someone away in a dark box for days on end.
We think the problem is that the amnesty international has a really particular way of seeing the justice system but it's not the case of the justice system has to be like homogenous across nations it's just a case that has to be consensual across nations.
So as long as I'm consenting into the justice system of the united states and the people in iran are consenting into the justice system by iran that's all that should matter.
This reagionality is necessary because different judicial bodies govern different areas and those people have different preferences so we allow for that kind of maneuverability and individuality when we let these groups take on their own justice systems.
But amnesty international takes a homogeneous a homogeneous look at justice and lobbies countries that derivate from the line that they draw.
We saw the pretty good example of this in iran in two thousand nine when amnesty international threw up a fit after after a man was found guilty for throwing acid in a woman's face and it was agreed that she could do the same to him.
We think that given this was a completely legitimate case like their justice system operating in the way that it should it's a problem that amnesty international saw fit to intervene and that's actually like quite a throwback to imperial powers so as such we think it's bad.
But second we think that amnesty international creates unnecessary conflict.
Public naming and shaming their main method isn't effective because it provides states with two options: either they capitulate with western organizations which they often don't like to do because it's seen as being weak and they don't want their populace to withdraw support but or they get to continue being shitty.
They oftentimes need to choose the latter because they don't want to look powerless to their populations and it's much more likely that actual compromise with international bodies would have worked or some kind of reasoning but now you've completely closed up that avenue because any kind of giving any kind of step in the in progress would be seen as that country giving in.
We think the absence of anything is preferable because you don't want problematic regimes to crunch down harder because of groups like amnesty international especially since they usually hit against the people that we were trying to protect in the first place.
Proud to propose.