The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish personality tests.
Three main areas of clash.
First on the problems with the use of personality tests and children's schools.
So we often used use these kinds of tests to categorize children with special needs or who have issues in the classroom and it's usually used to facilitate the laying out of a treatment plan and a way by which caretakers can try and help this child move along.
The problem is that personalities change and children very rarely fit into just one category.
But when you lay out a plan a treatment plan completely based on this one personality test they take you don't necessarily take these changes into account and you make it very difficult to recognize any kind of multi dimensionality to this person's personality.
It allows people to easily categorize children in ways that aren't actually helpful to them.
It's easy for educators but there are real impacts on kids when they can't get real help and they can't have someone who will adjust to their changing needs.
It prevents an adjustable treatment plan because people get stuck in this one based on this current personality and in order to open up the way that we view kids personality the only way to do so is to get rid of this initial cage that kind of traps us into a specific way of thinking and a specific way of treating children.
Our second area of clash has to do with personality tests as a trap.
A lot of the time people take these tests hoping that it will give them some kind of direction in life or tell them who they are.
But then they forget that this doesn't necessarily define them as a person and when they do so they oftentimes fall into the confines of their specific personality and find themselves limiting their own actions because what have the results told them.
So if a personality tests tells you that you don't do well with risks or you don't do well with x type of situation you become much less likely to seek out those situations because you've already settled into this pre-existing personality.
It also makes you much more resistant to change if you feel like you have identified very strongly with a specific category you're not going to be comfortable with yourself when you find that you have different preferences or a change in your personality.
And it makes it much more difficult to recognize when those changes occur in the first place because you're so set in your ways about this one.
We also think that a lot of jobs have recently started administering personality tests and oftentimes use it as a way to regulate their employees or place them into different situations.
And given this isn't an actual way in which you can get to know a person we would prefer that this wasn't used for like real world to categorization.
Our third area of clash has to do with personality tests as a scam.
Individual people are always looking for a crumb of self-diagnosis a way to understand themselves without putting in the emotional labor and an easy label that can become a conversation at dinner parties.
Oftentimes people get obsessed with this myth of the personality category because they feel like it will allow them to understand themselves and other much better.
And the problem is that personality tests as a market facilitate and proliferate these kind of stereotypes people are willing to spend hundreds and hundreds of dollars on a fake test.
I think it's really important to remember that personality tests are vastly a creation of capitalism and not real psychology and they oftentimes propagate stereotypes as such.
It's not the case usually that people can categorize themselves into such easy boxes.
There are entire fields of studies that are dedicated specifically to this and so when they waste so much money on this rather than spending money on important things for themselves or other pursuits or donating to charity they're essentially wasting both time and money.
While backing up problematic stereotypes.
So get rid of all of this.
Abolish personality tests.