We should abandon disposable diapers.
We mean by this is that we would prefer a world in which the majority or all of individuals chose not to use disposable diapers.
Three main areas of clash, first on pollution.
Recognize that the amount of diapers that get used from a time that a baby is born to the time that it becomes potty trained, usually around three years or four years old, is an exorbitant amount.
It usually is multiple diapers per day in an endless kind of stream for years and years.
So we need to conceptualize the magnitude of this number, because all of this then goes directly into our land, and like like where our where our trash goes, and there's like these aren't things that can actually decompose.
All of this is made out of hard plastics that will take years and years and years before they are reabsorbed into the earth, and also often release toxic materials based in what it is made of.
So needless to say, this is incredibly bad for the environment and we think that individuals then generally ought reduce the impact that they personally have on the environment as much as possible, recognizing that they are personally responsible for a portion of what the world looks like for the generation that comes after them.
IE what I do in the status quo impacts every day afterwards.
Even if this impact is incredibly small, when we aggregate this across entire populations we see that this has a very large impact.
So we think that what happens is that even one person who uses like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of diapers over the course of three years actually has a sizeable impact on the environment.
But when you multiply this by the millions of individuals who use disposable diapers you see this actually begins to have it really bad impact on landfills, like I'm pretty sure you could fill like six landfills just with the amount of diapers that we throw out, and we think that these are like very easy ways in which people minimize the impact that they have on the environment in a positive way.
Our second area of clash is about cost because recognize that disposable diapers required to be bought whenever you run out.
Right?
So like every diaper costs let's say approximately fifty cents, and because you are going through three years of this, this is money that aggregates and becomes quite expensive.
So we think that reusable diapers are always going to be considerably cheaper because they are a one time purchase and so even if you want to have like ten or so on rotation, you're never going to hit a moment in which you've spent hundreds and hundreds of dollars on them.
Moreover, they are like machine washable rather than like going in the trash and then have to be processed when they're thrown out.
So like the cost in terms of like the environment is a lot smaller, which we talked about previously.
And so I think that it's just like better if individuals are choosing a more cost friendly solution because they means that they are more likely to to like have money to spend later on.
So like on your children and things like that.
So we actually think that like given the choice, any child like prefer to have an extra toy rather than a disposable diaper and we think these are decisions that individuals ought make as well.
Finally we just wanna talk about how this impacts the family.
We think that when you are using non disposable diapers you are much more likely to potty train your children earlier.
In that we think that it is quite bad when kids are not potty trained up until like four five years old, it makes them really difficult to go to preschools and for caretakers to watch them.
So we think like a way in which you alleviate that and make people's life easier and also like it's good for kids to be potty trained earlier, is by abandoning disposable diapers.
Proud to propose.