Don't ban racial profiling.
Look we agree with pretty much everything that danny says about this being a bad action, but this doesn't mean that a ban is the best way to enforce them.
Things like racial profiling are bred from internal biases that are incredibly difficult to catch as like an outside individual and even more difficult to prove in any kind of formal setting because there can be a million excuses that you can come up with that would sound perfectly valid for why something wasn't racial profiling.
Proving that someone got stopped only on the basis of racial profiling is near impossible at the point that can someone can say no here were the suspicious actions I thought they were taking, here's like maybe the context for the situation.
So we think this is just very difficult to isolate and although it is certain some certainly something that happens and certainly something that is bad, we don't think that the correct method of stopping it would be to ban it.
Especially since we live in a society that is slowly becoming less racist and slowly becoming more liberal and beginning to recognize in a self aware manner that these about actions we think that banning could actually take us back.
Two main arguments, first on why it's impossible to ban.
No police department, no university, no institution of authority ever has a policy that directly advocates for racial profiling because everybody knows that it's problematic and racist and looked down upon it's simply that they also have justifications in their head for why what they're doing isn't wrong or doesn't actually count as racial profiling.
Especially when someone can often not even pick out those biases that cause them to make the decision themselves, that they don't notice that they're stopping black people at a vastly higher rate than white people.
They don't notice that they're more likely to shoot a black person than a white person.
These are all things that happen in the moment instinctive biases that influence actions in especially pernicious ways but aren't very like shown off at all.
So racial profiling is often done unknowingly by individuals who are otherwise decent people but have deeply ingrained biases that influence their actions.
And as such it's impossible to prove when racial profiling actually occurs because no one says hey I'm going to commit some racial profiling today, there's no way to prove this in a court of law because it just end up being the victims were the attacker.
We already have laws against racial discrimination so the situations where racism can be completely codified and can be isolated from other impulses are already taken care of.
It's bad to have an impossible ban because you just teach people to hide their problematic behavior better and you're making massive amounts of backlash from people that are worried that this will be weaponized against them.
Like republicans, the police, university cops even, like any group that feels like they could get in trouble for racial profiling is now just going to get especially defensive and especially try to avoid these things.
But they're not actually going to change whether or not they're racist people right?
Like the response to this won't be things like sensitivity training, rather it'll be like actively training on this is a bad policy it's useless but you don't want to be a victim of it.
Which brings us to our second argument, which is that banning racial profiling just leaves actually just makes all of racism and like the situation between police and people of color especially worse.
Claims of discrimination first will just get less weight in court.
Police are going to come up with better excuses, they'll say that because they know it's illegal they have training and policies against it and they'll use that as a reason for why they're good police officer could never have been a racist.
And judges are also just much more likely to empathize with policemen the way they often do in the status quo when it comes to police brutality cases, which means you'll get even fewer convictions because they're also kind of binding together in order to make sure that no one gets in trouble.
Police are also just going to learn to work around this.
Like this might mean avoiding areas with high prevalence minority groups so doing any policing there at all which we think is bad arm but it also it's just going to mean they're going to work harder to defend each other from these kinds of claims, it propagates the idea that police are being unfairly targeted, and they're going to respond by trying to hide even more.
Proud to oppose.