Don't ban abortions.
Two main arguments, first on promoting women's choice and freedom.
I think the most important thing is always going to be that we think that her body should ultimately be the under the governance of her own choice.
It shouldn't matter the context of her pregnancy but if you decide to do it that should still be an option you have even if it's not because it's medically necessary which is what james says is the only thing he'd allow.
It's just not the case that people should have to defer to these like priorities of this unborn thing just because they happen to get pregnant when we have the medical capabilities to not have to do that.
Like recognize that the child is a literal parasite.
Like we can say that there is a day on which the fetus is considered a person because it is based on when development has hit a point when it's life starts to actualize.
Up till the point it's just a clump of cells that is stealing nutrients and using the energy of this other human who happens to be their host.
In the same way that we don't consider either single or clump of cell organisms to be deserving of this potential life kind of status, we don't think fetuses are meaningfully different, besides the idea that if you let them grow for long enough to become a person but we don't think we can weigh that potentiality because if that was true we would do things like allow sperm to have these kinds of legal standings which clearly would be absurd.
James says that you can figure out when the you can't figure out when the transition occurs.
Like we're fine with limiting abortions to the first two trimesters so that you don't accidentally go over that transition, but given that we know that transition does not occur before those two first two trimesters just scientifically, we think that james is relying on very problematic fear mongering tactics here where he just gets to say like look you could potentially violate someone's rights and get away with it and we just think this isn't fair.
He keeps talking about how abortion isn't ethical.
Like we just don't think the fetus is a moral agent who deserves the consideration of rights, right?
Like we agree that this is about a rights trade off situation, we just think that james is on the wrong side of the trade off.
The mother's rights should always matter more.
This is because fetuses first don't feel, hear, or even exist in a meaningful sense.
They don't contribute to society, they don't change societal fabric except for the mother and like maybe the father to some extent.
And insofar as that mother is like a real person who cares about their potential future, who has a life established, we think that that person's rights are always going to matter more.
Like recognize that a fetus cannot contextualize its life so if it stops existing you're not doing any damage to it because it never had a future that it valued.
Meanwhile mothers and like the women who give birth to fetuses are people who can imagine what their future would look like and they can imagine what kind of harm is caused to that future when they are forced into having a child.
So we're always going to care about that more just because of the amount of harm that you're causing is infinitely larger because it is actually conceptualized.
This is about the life potential of the mother verses that fetus, like we don't consider miscarriages homicides because we recognize that these are just not things that are valued by comparison to the individual who is giving birth.
So we think that this is just not something james could ever win on.
Our second argument is about why it's good for society.
Like no we just don't think the state should protect the fetus.
Like if we show you that it comes at the cost of all of the rest of society, then we just outweigh on magnitude right?
And given that we get less unwanted children who then end up often relying on the state when they're given up for adoption and no one takes them over but also we get less single mothers who tend to be the lowest income kind of parents and tend to be on that intersection of poverty as well and also rely on the state that's something that we get less of.
And you also just get more women who are pursuing careers in the futures that they actually want and are capable of contributing to society, also something we think could independently win the round.
Proud to oppose.