Don't raise the retirement age.
I think that first and foremost, I'll have to do something I didn't think I'd have to do in these kinds of rounds, which is explain what exactly the retirement age is.
Because it is not the case that individuals get forced into retirement and stop being efficient members of society the moment they hit the age.
What it does mean is that it becomes the moment where people have the option to get retirement benefits.
So you don't have to retire if you need the money or if you're healthy and fulfilled by your work, so on so forth.
And recognize for the majority of individuals, it's not the case that they can retire at the age of seventy and like make a living off of their retirement earnings.
It is usually the case that it becomes supplemental to the money that they earn as they continue to work, because that is just how much the majority of the american public gets from retirement benefits.
So when tim talks to you about how there's not enough money for future people who choose to retire, recognize first, he's not solving this issue.
All he does is push it back a couple of years so that people now have to wait a little longer.
In fact, he's not even changing the stream of the money coming through, because still the same net amount of individuals retiring.
The the crisis with social security is caused by the fact there are infinitely more old people than those who are young, so there are less individuals contributing to the system than those taking out.
Changing the age doesn't fix that problem, so I don't think you can ever vote on that.
Two main arguments.
First, on fulfilling the needs of the majority.
Sure, the life expectancy went up, but life expectancy does not determine the way in which individuals are capable of continuing to live their lives, because the age of working condition stayed approximately the same for large portions of the population.
They don't have like a lot of people don't have great lifestyles.
They work really difficult jobs that tend to be physically and emotionally strenuous, health insurance is expensive, so oftentimes trips to the doctor are limited, and all of those things often like accumulate into a world in which even though these individuals live on net longer, they are still incapable of working or less capable of working around the same time.
This means that tim was only partially correct.
Sure, the age went up, but not not in but the individuals who but the age in which you can work did not.
We think that you need to be able to protect those old people.
Recognize that many jobs are age discriminatory.
Then we think that a lot of the time what happens is that because employers feel like you're protected by the retirement age, they feel more comfortable firing those who are older than those who are younger.
And we think that doing that kind of thing, forcing individuals into retirement is incredibly problematic.
But simultaneously, we think that we think that what happens on their side of the house is that they don't actually alleviate forcing individuals into retirement, it just means that now those individuals that get forced into retirement or fired don't have any kind of social security benefits that they can collect on, which we think is really problematic.
But our second argument is about keeping efficiency.
Recognize that many fields are dragged down by those who are older.
For example, you have teaching fields where there's literally no space for younger teachers, because older people are stuck in tenure in those spaces that they in those spaces that exist for like for in the fungible amount of spaces that exist for anyone who wants to become a teacher.
What this means is that you have individuals who don't know how to use technology particularly well, have grown tired of working with students, and are only there because they cannot get fired, keeping up spaces of those who are likely to do a much better job.
We don't think you should exacerbate this problem by literally forcing people to stay in the workforce for longer, because you made the retirement age higher, so now people need the money a lot more than they previously did.
Insofar as tim doesn't fix the social security issue, insofar as he only makes it a lot more difficult for old people to have any kind of safety net if they happen to be fired or if they want to stop working, don't listen to him, keep the retirement age the same.
Proud to oppose.