The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit unconventional oil.
What we mean by this is that we would lift current fracking restrictions, we would subsidize the use of unconventional oil governmentally and we would like generally promote the use in the media.
Two main areas of clash: the first about oil independency and and security.
The problem currently is that most western states rely on more middle eastern states to provide their oil because they don't have any oil of their own that is accessible through conventional oil drilling.
This means that countries such as america rely on the opec states or on canada, which means that they aren't truly independent.
Independence is incredibly important for two main reasons: first, let's talk about the social politics.
A perfect example of a situation in which our lack of oil independence has harmed us would be the opec scares of the nineteen seventies, in which arab states pulled oil sales to the US because of political support for israel and the refusal to pull that support.
This led to massive shortages within the united states stall ups at gas stations, people stuck in the roads, people not being able to make it to their jobs.
In the end we have to accept that oil makes up a very large part of our lives insofar as we rely on it to transport us from place to place and heat our homes.
Having to rely on other states stifles us politically because it creates a world in which if we need that oil badly enough, we have to comply with their demands.
We would prefer it if the US and other states were able to act freely in their political motions because we don't like it when oppressive states get to call the shots.
It's a problem if in response to criticisms to human rights abuses arabic states can just say: " okay, you just can't have oil now. "
And people have to shut up and deal with it because they don't have any kind of alternative.
The only way in which you get social change is if countries are willing to speak out against each other's against each other's tactics.
And the only way you can speak out against each other's tactics is if you aren't personally harmed in the process.
Secondly though there's also an economic problem here.
It's good when we control our own oil prices because and our own oil supply because with more supply and more access to supply the prices are going to decrease.
This is important because when prices decrease people can drive to more places, they're going to buy more goods in their generally going to be more, there's going to be more investment in a more stable economy.
But also it's important because when you're going to have domestic oil fracking rather than relying on middle eastern oil, you're going to be able to use your own workers.
This creates jobs within the united states which stimulates the economy and allows people to have basic spending power that they didn't have before.
Joblessness is bad both because it forces people on the governmental system that usually cannot handle them, but also because it means that individual people aren't able to contribute to the economy as much.
It's also good because while we can only limit what we tax in imports of oil, given that we need it, you can tax domestic oil a lot more and this revenue is good because it can go into things like social services.
Are second area of clash has to do with efficiency and technology.
In general, we're not going to get rid of oil anytime soon.
It's because green tech is expensive and republican lobbyists like to please their oil constituents.
Because of this, you should then do anything that is more safe and more efficient.
Fracking won't always be bad, because technology improves and it's going to be more likely to improve when you're going to use it more, because there's going to be more of a market incentive to innovate something that is going to be more efficient and more safe, so that less people complain.
We also think that it's at the point that we have a rising population that consumes more and more oil on a daily basis, our only choice without causing people to live a sub par standard of life, is to expand the ways in which we garner our oil while we develop green technology.
For these reasons proud to propose.