The motion for today's debate is that we should ban factory farming.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is animal abusive.
Recognize that factory farms treat animals awfully.
They keep them in tiny enclosures, they feed them terribly, they are killed painfully and often in front of each other and like if we kept humans in any kinds of these states it would instantly be considered a human rights violation and whoever was doing it would be tried in court.
So we think that animals might not be as smart as humans so we understand if some would not describe the same level of rights to them but they do feel pain and they suffer similarly so we probably shouldn't cause that suffering that so closely mimics our own.
Like we think at the point that eventhough like babies or really old people with dementia or anyone with a mental illness isn't as sentient or as intelligent as a human being, we don't say like oh because of that we value your rights as less and can treat you like garbage rather we actually see them as deserving of more protection, we see them as vulnerable groups and so we think that animals are actually incredibly similar and we shouldn't be causing them such pain.
But I also think that there's like a higher order pain verses lower order pleasure thing here, right?
Like recognize that these animals are suffering indefinitely like it takes up their entire life it's a really big amount of pain for them whereas for us it's just like this tiny pleasure of being able to cheaply afford meat and we just don't think that it ever compares, like we think that my higher my lower order pleasure is not worth their higher order pain is not worth the fact that they suffer so much as compared to like me only being happy a little.
Our second area of clash is about why it's human abusive.
Recognize that factory farms breed human breed terrible working conditions for their workers.
They are part of large corporations that lobby for less regulations and loss oversight, they often employ illegal immigrants that they won't be able to complain about the conditions so they can be worked even harder and have even like worse worse materials and worse like other conditions and it also like breeds medical catastrophes in a lot of ways like you're working around copious amounts of animals that are all with their own bacteria and own diseases and so it's like and you're also working on a lot of sharp stuff so it's actually a lot of the time really dangerous to work in these areas and it's not uncommon for individuals to lose parts of their hand or like other parts of their body because it's been cut off.
So we think at the point that factory farms are so especially bad for people and this doesn't occur on smaller farms for the simple reason of like it not being as overcrowded, there being more oversight like more regulations occurring we think this is actually like a very bad thing and this is another reason they ought be banned.
But our third argument is about why this is really bad for the environment.
Recognize that methane emissions alone cause a massive portion of like global warming and global energy increase and like the reason these methane emissions are so high is because we're growing hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cattle to meet the rising demands of individuals and so we actually think that that's like quite bad right like we think that individuals can do without their cheap meat but we probably can't do with a world that is steadily growing too hor for us to exist on so and insofar as the only way that we prevent those emissions is by cutting down on the amount of animals that we have banning factory farms is a really good way to start because it would never allow such a large aggregation of animals in one place again.
They also use up massive amounts of water because you need both the amount of water to grow animal feed and then you also need to give water to the animals so that they could drink and at the point that we are facing like large amounts of droughts sweeping different areas like we're running out of water actively, water is getting more expensive in a lot of areas that charge for water we think that we should be prioritizing people getting water verses some people getting meat and those animals having to get water.
So we think this is also bad in that regard.
So we think that like end result is we bite the harm we think that it's that prices are going to rise dramatically like all this will get less expensive, but we think that's fine because less of this meat should be consumed and those effects of less meat consumed are good.
Proud to propose.