The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit hydraulic fracturing.
Two main areas of clash the first is environmental.
I think right off the top it's important to say that hydraulic fracturing always furthers the goals of oil companies and furthers the use of oil and gas by like like widespread society.
This is really bad because anything that facilitates the burning of fossil fuels contributes to global warming by releasing problematic chemicals into the atmosphere upon the consumption of that fuel.
So regardless of any other specific impact we think any process that facilitates the continued dependence of individuals on greenhouse like not renewable energy is bad.
But more than this we mean that hydraulic fracturing is uniquely bad for the environment because the process itself is very damaging like drilling into the ground with a bunch of chemicals that explode underneath poisons groundwater poisons the surrounding like surrounding area and what happens is that like then leaks into wildlife and plants and all of your surroundings like it essentially destroys the local environment but also destroys where these local creatures and local populaces are getting their water from.
Like at the point that you can't rely on your groundwater being safe it means that plants in the area can no longer live animals cannot survive everything essentially depends on the ground water and the water of that area being safe.
But if you don't care about animals I think it's incredibly important to note that fracking is incredibly damaging to people.
Insofar as individuals live in these areas where fracking occurs it destroys water sources of those people as well and it causes swaths of land prone to caving in that make it very dangerous for houses to be standing on it.
And so we think that even if you like think that animals are whatever and can die we think it's really important to note how it affects individual people.
It especially affects those of lower income because rich people can pay for private built reservoirs and like can make sure that their area isn't harmed by lobby lobbying their politicians but people with less money have less access to political capital or alternatives and you just kind of get stuck with whatever water other people left you with.
And nothing really around it.
Like flint michigan still doesn't have water clearly like the the the main government doesn't care if people don't have it.
And so we don't think that you should be putting anyone in this position but especially insofar as you're hurting those who are already worse off in your society we don't think you should be going further.
Our second area of clash is about forcing energy development.
Fracking is just the next step in avoiding the fact that we're running out of oil and gas like oh it's gotten marginally harder and like we know that we don't have much left time to move on to the next best thing let's start like coming up with new processes.
We think that as long as you have more outs people won't face the facts or not change because it's always harder to change the status quo than just keep going with whatever's currently being used.
We think that banning fracking takes away one of the few options left and forces people to look towards energy solutions.
It also frees up massive amounts of governmental money and governmental budget that is currently saved to supporting like fracking efforts and giving tax breaks to these large oil companies that instead could be used to go and like fund research and fund hydrogen based power cells and things like that.
And given that this is an old this is always a preferable alternative because of the really bad effects that climate change actually has we think that you should ban fracking now and allow individuals to get like start working towards these solutions as fast as possible.
Especially since they're going to take awhile to develop so starting as soon as possible is basically of essence.
For these reasons proud to propose.