We should not abolish intelligence tests.
We think that obviously we can come with the caveat that maybe we should reduce the use of intelligence tests within the classroom until they have more substance of evidence of working and have better categories and we're also fine with decrease in the use of intelligence tests in the job market, but I think that what government is defending in this motion is very much abolishing intelligence tests entirely and why people should never be able to have access to their own scores or ever be able to use it in any kind of circumstance.
Three main areas of clash.
The first on why we don't think that it's entirely pseudoscience.
Recognize that there's a lot of incredibly strong psychological theory behind what intelligent tests are and a lot of it is still massively being refined like at the end of the day we think that society took a concept that was half baked and ran with it but it doesn't necessarily mean that we should get rid of the entire concept only that we should finish cooking it through.
The problem in society is not that it exists but rather that it gets applied in situations in which it doesn't belong that makes people feel like they have to conform to certain expectations of themselves.
We think that you need to let psychologists keep working on this in the meantime until it becomes a functional system.
And we that that it's actually incredibly unfair to say that it's entirely pseudoscience because the kind of science that went into it was actually very legitimate, the problem is that we just haven't standardized it across all scenarios.
Our second area of clash is about why it's important for the determination of government benefits.
Recognize that you need people who are mentally deficient to qualify for state aid but the only way to test these qualifications is through intelligent tests where getting a score below a certain bar gets you recognition of being mentally retarded.
What this then does is allows you to access cheaper healthcare and state money which is incredibly important because a lot of the time treatments for the conditions that cause mental retardation are fairly expensive and oftentimes poor families end up strapped for cash because of one person who they cannot afford to keep and take care of.
So and we think that the alternative world is actually surprisingly bleak in that you would have to depend on doctor testimony or on the state's own decision.
We think that it would be really unlikely to be a doctor's testimony given the state is kind of paranoid and they wouldn't want doctors to be able to just give out these kinds of diagnoses wherever because they don't want to lose money in that way, so we think what would actually happen is that the state would have an assigned group of people that would be in charge of labeling other individuals.
The problem with this is first that the state is incredibly bureaucratic.
We think it would be very likely that people would just not get would not get assessed for very very long periods of time to the point where it would be financially a problem for them and their family.
But more than this, we think the state has an incentive not to find someone mentally retarded insofar as it means they're going to have to pay more money for them, so we actually think that because there's a perverse incentive to never find people who need who need it to be in need of extra aid or state aid, we don't think that the state is a good arbiter and so we think that we have to rely on the existence of an intelligence test.
But our third independent point is just on why it's personally fulfilling.
We that that it's really fun to take IQ tests on your own or as part of an enrichment program with the school we think that even if it is pseudoscience it is something that people are incredibly fascinated by and we don't think that we just get to tell them they are wrong or they ought not be doing so especially when a lot of the time practicing with intelligence tests can help you to get better at certain mind tricks or certian like puzzles etcetera.
We also think that if you get a high score it creates an incentive for you to work to earn that high score, it makes you feel empowered about your own potential which is incredibly positive.
We think there's actually no real lose out here right because even if you have a low score we think a lot of people feel incredibly motivated to go through and work hard to prove it wrong which is shown they can still do well.
So at the end of the day, we don't think you should abolish intelligence tests.
Proud to oppose.