Don't ban abortions.
I think that recognizing we can set reasonable limits on this, IE we can ban abortions at the time of the third trimester, or some reasonably set scientific limit, I think it is important then to set what government has to defend.
Because I think what danny did is he created a world in which women do not have access to abortion regardless of their circumstances.
So even if they are very young and have their whole life ahead of them, even if they are sick and having a pregnancy go through would be really detrimental to them, even if they are very poor and don't have the money to afford a child but also don't want to put one up for adoption.
All of these situations are individually really good reasons for someone to have an abortion that he prevents.
Two main arguments, first, on rights.
Recognize, first and foremost, that the problem here always is that what people who are anti-abortion claim is that the life of this tiny thing that doesn't even exist yet ought matter more than the life of the woman who conceived them, and carries them to term in the end.
This is literally nonsense.
Recognize that the little bean inside of that person might have the potential to become a human being, but is not yet a human being.
They do not feel pain, they do not have thought processes, if you kill them now they will not regret it, they will not remember it, and it will never affect them.
There is nothing about that individual that might become a person that ought be valued more than someone who was fully created, IE, has aspirations and desires and limitations on their humanity.
We think that that more developed individual has more potential than a tiny fetus or a tiny like barely fetus ever can, because that is someone who already has the tools to make it in the rest of the world, whereas this one now depends on that other person to do it.
Moreover moreover, recognize that the point of viability that danny keeps talking about is a really bad metric.
Because it is literally just like oh, when can the fetus be kept alive by current technology, if we were to take it out of the body.
This is so stupid, because recognize that as technology grows more and more and more, that point of viability shifts farther and farther down the line.
Not because there's anything inherent to being viable, but because our technology is just getting really strong.
Recognize that when the baby feels is an infinitely better metric, because it actually ascribes some kind of sentience or independence to that individual.
It says look, you've actually hit a minimum barrier to be considered a person, maybe we should protect you now.
Danny talks a lot about how adoption is a good idea.
Like, recognize first that it still forces a woman to carry a parasite for nine months in their bodies.
It still limits their the way that they can act and the way we can behave during that time, they have to do things like prevent themselves from drinking alcohol, they have to keep themselves from overworking themselves, so if you're someone who works multiple jobs, that becomes either really difficult or literally impossible if you're having a pregnancy going on.
Like, you have to spend money to take care of yourself more than you would on a normal basis, if you were just feeding one person rather than two during that time.
But we also just think that women shouldn't be forced to put up their children for adoption.
Like, there are enough babies abandoned in the world that individuals can adopt if they so desire, that we ought not be adding to them with babies that women would have aborted.
This is just literally nonsense.
And we also just think that individuals who like have strong ties when they see that child often change their mind.
Not because this is a system that is better for them, but because they're literally in that moment and that's something that happens to them.
Our second argument is about why it's good.
Recognize first and foremost, that less unwanted kids is probably a good thing.
So if you're someone who really didn't want to have a child but got forced to do it because you couldn't have an abortion and didn't want to give it up for adoption, or your parents didn't let you give it up for adoption, which often happens, that's a child who probably isn't going to be treated as well as someone who maybe you would have had when you wanted that child genuinely.
Moreover though, recognize that our orphan care system is already absurdly overworked.
So if you do give up your child for like to the state that's not going to be good for that individual, especially since they often don't get adopted.
We also just think that less single mothers is on net good.
Like recognize that pregnancy literally screws young women's lives into the long term, and put does things like forces them to rely on the state, not be able to be self-sufficient.
This is bad.
Proud to oppose.