The motion for today's debate is that the government should subsidize massive open online courses.
What we mean by this is that there'd be a government hosted like government hosted college I'd guess online that would allow individuals to freely take classes and earn some kind of degree based on those classes.
With that, two main areas of clash, first on allowing cheap exploration.
A lot of people leave high school not knowing what they want to do with the rest of their lives and then they get stuck in two situations: either they go to college and waste their first two years puttering around classes that don't contribute to their future and waste that money there, or they don't go to college and like and often times just spend this year like not really knowing what to do.
Working a job that doesn't contribute to their future, being like kind of dead-ended for a year, and some of these people get stuck in that rut like perpetually because they can never figure out what they want exactly.
We think that subsidizing large amounts of online classes would allow people to take the best of both of these worlds and figure out what they want without paying for it.
It would also be incredibly relevant for high school students, especially those who come from schools that might be a little bit worse, those who can't necessarily afford like a mass amount of prep, we think that it's really important that now instead of having to like go to college and feel unprepared maybe I know that my school has like particularly bad science programs and so now I can go online and take it really cheaply online.
We think this is really really helpful especially for students who wouldn't be able to afford that alternatively because recognize that rich kids stuck in poor districts like their parents are just going to pay for tutors like they're capable of doing that but students who maybe show a lot of potential but don't necessarily have the money for that are stuck in poor education systems and can never break out and so we think that is really really bad and this is one of the ways by which we can counter act that is given that we are not very capable of changing the school system that they come from.
Our second area of clash is about creating university accessibility.
College is vastly becoming a prerequisite for a stable well earning career as automation takes over, as like we have more and more research positions open up but less and less need more fast food things and like stuff like that.
But college access hasn't reflected that.
A like strong college education tends to be really expensive and time and schedule consuming.
This makes it hard for people who don't have the money, need to work at the same time, or have children to ever get a degree.
Meanwhile tons of top universities videotape their classes and can aggregate them online.
It's actually really easy to make degrees accessible we just need to get over the up front costs that governments can help with.
Moreover, we need to start normalizing the validity of online classes so that people don't stigmatize it.
In the status quo it's really common for someone to get a degree from an online school and for that to be seen as like a fake degree because you didn't go to college because you like didn't experience the test taking environment and we think that's a really really silly like insofar as we have the technology to take online tests insofar as we have the technology to like let people access educations from their homes we don't understand why the fact that like sometimes I went to class versus someone who didn't have the opportunity to be there physically but still learned all the same material ought be treated differently within the workplace.
And given that this is like a pretty large problem for a lot of people, we think that normalization is really really important insofar as we think that people probably should get jobs in the fields that they're passionate about and jobs in like what they have learned about previously and that only happens on our side of the house when you actually make those fields more available both in terms of like physically taking classes there but also in terms of being able to get a job without the employer saying well because you got this online and this other person got it in person, we don't care about you as much.
And we think the government signaling here is also really valuable like when the government says look like we think that these are equally valuable, we're providing this then people intrinsically have more trust in the government and so like given that the government endorses it are more likely to endorse it as well.
Proud to propose.