We should not ban factory farming.
I think right off the top it's incredibly important to note that all factory farming refers to is the mass production of animals and we think that you can do so ethically and you can do so without the abuse of portions.
Like we think that you can still mass produce chickens without keeping them in very small conditions it just requires larger conditions and better regulations.
So all we're advocating for in this round is that we we ban maybe aspects of factory farming or we regulate factory farming in a better way but we don't think that you should ban it on face.
And three main arguments as to why not.
First, we tell you that prices will rise massively, something that james concedes.
Getting rid of factory farming causes prices to skyrocket insofar as now the same area of land that you were using to farm fifty cows is spread across four different local farms and all of them are asking you for a price to cover all of the same infrastructure that could have been at one.
But I think the issue really here is how much it's going to rise and at the point that you're raising one cow for the time and money of twenty it means very likely that you're ending up with a pound of chicken becoming up to up fifteen dollars which is unreachable for the majority of individuals in terms of what they can spend on food.
And drew tries to poo-poo this away.
He says that people can live vegetarian diets and that's fine.
The problem is that lots of people rely on meat for very necessary nutrients.
And sure there are ways to substitute those nutrients into your diet without necessarily eating meat, but in order to do that you have to have experienced and the money to afford vegetables or meat substitutes such as tofu.
But if people could afford those alternatives they already would have been buying them.
But you don't magically afford it just because you can't buy meat anymore.
And so we think the main problem that they have to deal with on their side of the house is that you just have people who have no idea how to still fulfill their nutritional needs with the finances that they have available in so far as you've gotten rid of like a massive source of nutrition for like a lot of families.
All they're doing is making it very difficult for people to cook healthy meals and keep themselves healthy.
So you're dealing with lots of cases of malnutrition and lots of cases of just not having enough food.
Our secondary of clash is that traditional farming is worse for the environment.
One factory farm verses all of the same set up just for more and smaller farms means that you're using much more material and actually producing many more problems because of that material that you're losing.
We also think that large factory farms often just have more money to afford things like environmental controls, methane filters, and converters and all of that.
And so we just think that without we just think that once you split these into smaller farms it's much less likely that people can afford to protect the environment whereas even if the government says, like this is mandatory, factory farms can afford it.
We also just think that factory farms provide more jobs than than those that are more traditional insofar as more traditional factory farms tend to be family oriented and really don't have that much manpower for it.
Our third area of clash is about the about why society needs to have factory farms because at the end of the day maybe it would be ultimate for everyone to be a vegetarian, but in the status quo we're just not and it's really difficult to break those cycles that we've gotten so used to.
Society needs meat and you can't just start banning things without at least a small period of time in which you can ease into that practice.
So all we think they're doing on government side is causing a crisis.
For these reasons proud to oppose.