The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize the organ trade.
Three main areas of clash, first on solving the organ crisis.
Recognize that in the status quo thousands plus people die because they can't get an organ because they aren't high enough on the list of people who need organs.
Thousands more live out the rest of their lives on systems like dialysis and other life support which is incredibly painful, incredibly costly, and incredibly unnecessarily unnecessary given that we can solve these problems.
It's always going to be more important to give them life and support because they are the ones who are struggling the most with this, especially since there are plenty of organs that can be given at very little cost to the individuals like kidneys, portions of the litter liver, marrow transplants, etcetera are nearly harmless to the person especially when they buy into those harms by getting paid for them but can do an infinite amount of good for someone who is struggling or someone who's going to die for lack of an organ.
We think that insofar as this is an incredibly immediate need the government should facilitate the solution for this through the exposure of markets that individuals can buy into and have organs from and so we think this is like actually quite important.
But our second area of clash is about the abolishing the black market.
Recognize that when you that when you legalize the market it allows for regulations to exist because when it's illegal you can't regulate the market when you can't acknowledge that exists so having its existence recognized and legal means that you can necessarily pin a lot more on it.
Legalization allows things like facility checks, it allows like requiring licenses for doctors, requiring patient care like afterwards and checkups, and creates and allows like minimums on costs of organs to make sure that poor people aren't getting overly exploited.
So all of these things are preferable because recognize that a black market happens either way on opp, there are always people who are incredibly desperate people who need the money really quickly and they're always individuals who are rich enough to pay a lot for organs and like the majority of that like cost gets subsumed by the direct like by the surgeon or whoever's giving that organ over and a really tiny amount trickles down to the individual who gave way that organ.
So we think that now you provide them with an option, do they go to a black market or do they go to some more is cleaner, they're going to get paid more and they're not going to die afterwards we think that that necessarily they're going to choose the latter in a world where like both are probably going to exist.
We also think that it provides a legal avenue that lets people being protected from botched surg surgeries and like being underpaid we think it's really a lot easier to sue a corporation when the practice is legalized and you're not afraid of getting criminalized yourself so it's the only way in which ways like people you keep people from being afraid that they're going to get in trouble for something that actually cost them a lot.
But our third area of clash is about individual rights like it's unclear to us why the government gets to regulate something that people are going to be able to do with their bodies and therefore like we think they should be able to do whatever they want.
Recognize that this like only makes sense in situations where they're really like long term like very bad out like external harms like we think you ban things like meth because meth addicts are really dangerous for society addiction spillover in different groups and this is like a pertinent government interest.
But the problem with organ donation is that you can educate someone about the risks and that's something that they can consent into balanced against the amount of money that they're going to be able to make.
So we actually think that like people are going to like insofar as like first people are going to buy into these kinds of dangerous systems either way on op it's just going to be through a black market but second insofar as we think that someone knows the context of their own life more and recognizes whether they need twenty thousand dollars more than they need a kidney we think that individuals ought be able to make that decision for themselves.
But also even if you don't buy that we think that insofar as people are allowed to work really dangerous jobs and take harmful actions in the status quo, this isn't any different from that so we don't actually have a bright line for when this ought happen.
It's unclear why we would allow people to donate organs but not sell them at least this way they get something out of it.
For these reasons proud to propose.