Don't exploit small modular reactors.
Two main arguments, first on the high risk of meltdown.
Many nuclear fission reactions reactors are equally dangerous to full-on plants, but now you're just going to have significantly more of them and they might be of slightly smaller size.
This is actually incredibly problematic because in the status quo when you have one nuclear power plant and it serves basically the majority of a country because it is often times very risky to have more than that in one nation, so we see that currently in the united states there's only like two or three maximum nuclear reactors we see that even then we oftentimes do have mistakes.
Like see things like chernobyl or the japan meltdown or even our very own like three mile island meltdown.
Like all of these things occur not because people don't care or aren't working, it's because these fission reactors are really high risk and really easily set off and really easily become a security threat.
So when you increase the amount and just like put them everywhere, we think you're going to have an even more difficult time making sure that everything is secure but also that every little meltdown is just going to affect an infinitely larger region right?
Because even if the size of the reactor is smaller, the fact that any like radiation can just be blown up and down the country with the winds means that you're going to be affecting infinitely more space when even one of these breaks down than if you had like just one nuclear reactor that sits in one particular area that is less likely to break down than having a million of them but when it does can be more easily contained because you don't have so many all over the place.
Look even large incredibly secure isolated power plants are very dangerous to the point that we don't use nuclear energy just because the harms of any sort of meltdown or security breach are so high.
So when james wants to put these all over the country in tons of places, this is just probability wise going to have a higher risk of meltdown.
It also just means that oversight is going to be really stretched thin so response to upkeep and breaks will be much shorter and less wholistic.
These rural and isolated areas that james is worried about are also the most prone to things like earthquakes, snowstorms, etcetera and it means that it'll be harder to access these modulators for upkeep in response to a crisis will be severely limited by location.
Our second argument is about the false sense of solvency.
Nuclear energy is significantly dirtier than any other type of energy that drew lists like water power, solar power, or geothermal.
It produces incredibly harmful radioactive waste and uses very dangerous radioactive ingredients.
At least one form of greener energy will work for any isolated or rural area that james can come up with.
We should focus on increasing those instead of pretending to solve the problem of small modular reactors.
James talks about developing nations.
We think this is actually the group for which small modulator reactors will never work because they're significantly more expensive than things like solar panners panels and also significantly more dangerous.
And this means that developing nations can't afford them or their upkeep.
So he's not actually going to help the groups that he says this is most useful for.
It would be better input of energy to just say let's raise the number of windmills because they go high up so even areas that have low wind can still generate power.
Or let's have more solar power panels which are literally guaranteed to work every day during the day so the only countries where it wouldn't work would be like in the very north where you have very short days to no days and there we could do things like water power or solar power instead.
So we just think that given that there's already a green energy type that can suit the specific needs of basically any area, we don't understand why we should be deferring to small modular reactors when they are so much more dangerous.
Proud to oppose.