The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish attorney-client privilege.
We mean by this is that we wouldn't have any kind of mandated reporting like we wouldn't require attorneys to give up their clients if they were confessed to but we would provide an option like we wouldn't make attorney-client privilege something that is legally binding so that attorneys could report their clients if they so decide to.
Two main areas of clash, first on fulfilling the purpose of the criminal justice system.
Recognize that at it's heart the criminal justice system is truth seeking.
It wants to make sure that those who are innocent are not punished but those that are guilty are in accordance to the laws of whatever country you're in.
The idea is that guilty deserve punishment because they took away from society its safety they made people afraid they did something that broke the laws and so made the laws less sacred setting a precedent that breaking them is okay all of these reasons are like reasons that we generally think it's bad when guilty people get away.
Attorneys are there to make sure that societal bias and a lack of education doesn't preclude an innocent person from getting in a from getting like the correct call on their case, like it doesn't mean just because I'm not educated enough just because I'm a person of color I go to jail even when I'm innocent.
And there's a problem in the status quo where attorneys have become a way that guilty people go free or get significantly less harsh sentences just because they are able to pay a good lawyer or something like that.
And we think that this is very bad because it basically takes people for who have like committed crimes and pose a threat to society and puts them straight back into the population simply because attorneys were never allowed to say my client is guilty and were forced to defend them regardless of what crimes they had committed.
We need to stop giving criminals an extra shield of protection.
The only group that needs attorney-client privilege are those who are guilty either way so we think that at the point that attorney-client privilege literally only defends those who have committed the crimes they're accused of we think that it shouldn't exist at all.
But our second area of clash is about when attorneys would use this because we think that given the situations in which this gets used it's especially important that it not exist.
So attorneys understand that violating attorney-client privilege even if it's not legally binding is going to lose them clients and money because individuals want to talk to attorneys they can trust there were like they will worry if case like go to going to attorney who has been known to turn people in things like that.
So there's an incentive structure already in place that means this only gets used in the most heinous situation like you found that find out that the person is a serial killer or a slave trader or like has made multiple multiple violations or whatever because every single incentive in terms of like the market tells attorneys not to use this.
So we think we need those cases to get out because releasing those people back into society is dangerous and they're you're way more likely to catch those were like really rich with good lawyers because in the status quo rich people often get off regardless of whether they're guilty or not because they're able to afford really good attorneys and this allows attorneys with a conscious to report even incredibly wealthy perpetrators.
We also think that creating closure here is really really important.
There's a problem in the status quo were even after a person's case is closed double jeopardy isn't a possibility details of of a case don't come out because the perpetrator never releases them and eventhough the lawyer might know them they're not allowed to disclose that.
And this is really bad for like especially in the situations of violent crimes or individuals who are like certain victims were affected it's really bad because those victims never get any kind of closure like we think it's really important for people to find out where the bodies of their dead loved ones are buried or for a lot of people it's like very important to find out in a lot of unsolved cases what actually happened.
We think that there were people who never ever got this kind of closure eventhough they deserved it because of attorney-client privilege and we think that attorneys ought be able to facilitate that kind of healing within society.
For these reasons, proud to propose.