Don't ban abortions.
Two main areas of clash, first on rights.
Recognize that in these kinds of situations we are always going to value a woman's right more than an unborn child.
Why?
Because even if we think that we have some derived value as a human being we certainly think there are circumstances in which some human beings are worth more than others.
This is why we might say that someone who is ninety years old and on the brink of death in a choice between them versus like a young toddler you would say that young toddler ought live if you have absolutely no choice because one has already had a fulfilling life and the other is yet beginning theirs.
The problem when it comes to abortion is that we are talking about something that is a literal non-life as compared to one that still has a long time to go and a lot to develop.
Because even if we think that humanity starts from DNA, we have to recognize that there are gradients of reality when it comes to humanity.
So if you are literally not alive, you are not feeling things, you do not have feelings about whether or not you are going to die, then we do not think that it is a violation if you do not yet exist because your rights also do not yet exist.
The other problem with what tim says is that he assumes that we can base things on the like DNA or like there's something fundamental to that but the problem is that we've already accepted that dissecting the components that make up a person are okay in a lab environment so unless we're going to break into any live lab that works with human cells we have to recognize that it is not until they aggregate into an actual person that it's going to matter.
Recognize also that fetuses can be like the the age at which an abortion of a fetus is allowed can be changed and can be made to be higher so like this is why currently the majority of laws say that you can abort within your first trimester in your second if you really really need to but certainly not in your third because that is the point where we know that the fetus can move around has like developed hearing senses so on so forth.
The problem here also is that we think that there's like a fundamental my body my rules kind of claim.
If I am expected to give up the rest of my life taking care of this child as well as these nine months that decimate my body and require me to be incredibly uncomfortable but I now also have to do things like provide financially for the child that has been born, these are all things that come at direct cost to myself.
It seems that the point that there can be a choice to not have that direct cost the person who ought to be able to make it is the one who will bear the cost afterwards.
This is why we think if someone is like we wouldn't force someone to do something like purchase a home against their will or engage in some kind of like long term against their will because we recognize that when someone is personally affected by the decisions they are making then they ought to be able to make those calculuses in those contexts themselves.
Our second argument is about the black market.
Recognize these kinds of things always happen regardless of how much the government tries to prevent a black market from occurring because they they're always going to be women who are so scared and so desperate that they really want an abortion and try to get one and like as much as possible and there are always people who are willing to provide that whether it is because they want to make money or because they genuinely feel like women ought not be forced to have children outside of their consent.
But recognize that black markets are incredibly dangerous.
Oftentimes they are done in ways that are unhygienic by people who don't completely know what they are doing.
There is no way to regulate the after effects which can often be very bad for women and if something does go wrong you can't go to a hospital because you are afraid of the fact that you did something illegal and you don't want that backlash.
So on their side of the house they're forcing young women into a situation where they can literally risk their lives because of their unwillingness to want to have a child.
Don't force women to make that decision.
Don't ban abortions.