Don't disband unesco.
Sam's only impact, besides his argument about sovereignty, is that maybe unesco isn't super effective, but even if this is true, this is something that we think can be changed and made more efficient over time.
Moreover, if we show you that it has positive benefits, it's okay if it's not the most efficient or effective thing in the world, because most organizations have some fluff or bureaucracy that make them less than optimal.
We don't think that it is the job of us to prove that that unesco is a one hundred percent like perfect utilitarian machine, rather it is our job to show that it has enough positive things that it is worth keeping around, even if it has some inefficiencies.
He's worried about imminent collapse.
Like, we just don't think this is likely, and we don't think that sam gave a reason why unesco is going to just weirdly dissolve out of the blue.
Right?
Like, but also, if it is, like let it come naturally.
At the point that it can do good works before it falls apart, we want as many of those good works as possible.
Two main arguments, first about the protection of historical sites.
Sam says this a violation of sovereignty but we think this is just nonsense, right?
Even if it is a violation of sovereignty, we think it is a justified one insofar as states have shown that they are really bad at protecting sites that don't have monetary value, but that doesn't mean they don't have value to the people in the states or to the rest of the world.
So when unesco labels these things as heritage spaces, it's labeling spaces as belonging to people rather to any given government because of the good that it can do for those individuals.
Like we see things like the fact that you can't have ownership of international waters specifically for these kinds of reasons, right?
That one government controlling would be unfair because of how much meaning it holds to multiple individuals, multiple governments, and multiple lands.
Similar situations happen with these heritage sites.
We also just think that it is important to protect historical and cultural sites.
They hold a lot of cultural and social importance.
The sites are truly one of a kind and if they get destroyed, it is something that you can never get back.
It also has a lot of educational value.
It lets people learn about history, and the alternative is often that those sites either fall into disrepair and get destroyed or become inaccessible, because local governments close them off or charge a lot of money for visiting them.
A lot of the states a lot of the time, states won't have the money to maintain historical sites, meaning that you either get them taken down or slapped with massive entrance fees so no one can actually access them.
Our second argument is about education.
Funds from unesco also go toward promoting education, whether it's by raising awareness of heritage sites and and organizing exhibitions, whether it's providing online material so that people can educate themselves, or whether it's by doing things like having children programs for cultural education.
These are all things that unesco provides that other groups simply don't.
It also works on programs that try and create education for youth affected by or in armed conflict zones, and it has poured a lot of money and energy into education about global warming, as well as trying to promote peace by putting out media on peace building and cultural sensitivity.
Sam is worried that the way unesco does things reflects on the UN.
First, insofar as unesco does good things, we do not think this is a harm, right?
Like if I was affiliated with a certain organization and I just did a lot of positive things, that organization probably wouldn't be upset by the fact that I represented them, rather it's probably good to have those two things linked.
But even if not, we think that these two things can be separated enough if they need to be, that people won't conflate them too much.
Proud to oppose.