The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize women in science.
Mean by this is that we would take money from the government and put it into scholarships for women who are pursuing STEM degrees and we would like create what we put money into women specific programs like maybe fellowships that encourage large female joining and like camaraderie.
With that three main areas of clash, first on reparations and we think that we can justify this both on a principle and pragmatic level.
First on the principle in that women have been shunned from STEM fields unfairly for decades due to sexism.
The skew has gotten so bad to the point that we have that like we're without an incentive for for women to enter these programs there isn't going to be a self self correction because they've become self propagating in their isolating this.
Like we think that it's really difficult for a woman to put herself in a situation where she's likely to be the only woman in the room for days and days and days on end and so it's really likely that she never does it in the first place in this constantly is a cycle that propagates itself because other women also don't want to put themselves in situations where they know that they're not going to have other women around them and they're more likely to get sexually assaulted and less likely to get believed when they come out about it.
So we think the only time in which you actually get them in is when you encourage women to go in given that like the situation has become inhospitable they have to have an extra incentive to do it in the first place.
Women are also owed this because STEM is seen as he specifically lucrative stable and fulfilling field yet people who might have been amazing scientists or like very personally fulfilled by this job never got the initial access to this field in the first place and this is indicates a harm done unto them that needs to be fixed and we think that this is like one of the ways in which we do so.
We also think that we have like a precedent for these kinds of programs.
We think like this is why we have things like affirmative action because we recognize that a group has been structurally disadvantaged for years on end to the point where it's very difficult for them to lift themselves out of that situation and so we help them out.
Our second area of clash is about shifting cultural norms.
Recognize that STEM is well known for being male dominant nominated full of sexual assault and generally unsafe for women.
The only solution is to put more women in because they will have an incentive to advocate for their own safety and for other women safety.
Strength in numbers means support for the women who are already there and it's harder for men to get away with shitty shit when you have women who are willing to say this is what he did and women who are willing to support those women because it's really difficult to be a survivor who comes out on their own and knows that they have no support network that knows they're unlikely to be believed and and they get judged by a primarily male like dominated area and so given that something that is so difficult we think that it's really important that you have other women there and there would be able to say like look we've had similar experiences or we believe in your experience.
It's also true that many men genuinely believe that women aren't smart enough or capable of being in these kind of STEM field and we think it's important to demonstrate that there is an institutional issue not a problem with women as a gender and we think that only happens when you put women into that institution and give them the tools they need to succeed through the education system.
Our tlhird area of clash is about why diversity as like is a like inherent good for industry.
Recognize that people from from the same backgrounds and have the same identity tend to think in the same way ie they're less efficient at problem solving as a group because they all have the same way of approaching that problem and this also means that they're just more likely to get stuck because when everybody has the same way of thinking you're also going to have the same way of getting caught on a specific problem.
We think that women provide different experiences and ways of thinking which is always positive in these kinds of fields where innovation and like constant like conferal and like pauses are so dangerous and all of this is really very important things are high speed and up to date and we think that happens when you increase diversity.
Proud to propose.