The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize renewable energy.
By we, we mean the united states, by subsidies, we refer to subsidies on green technology and renewable technology as well as tax breaks for corporations that are created to either propagate the use of renewable energy or have like some kind of tech development tied up in it.
Like basically any kind of subsidy or like money given that is supposed to increase access to renewable energy or facilitate it would be something we're comfortable defending.
Three main areas of clash: first, on achieving energy independence.
Recognize that there's a problem in the status quo where we spend where we depend on middle eastern countries or russia to provide oil that literally runs our country.
Like the dependence that every WLD has on the existence of oil and gas is massive insofar as we use it from everything from heating our homes to running our cars, like we literally would not be able to function as a society without it.
But it's really bad that we rely on the specific countries because it ties our economy and social functioning to the countries that don't really like us that much.
Like if they want to mess us up or cause any kind of discomfort, all they have to do is cut us off from oil.
And we saw this happen multiple times, but I think a really good example was in nineteen seventy three when carter issued some kind of doctrine helping israel and suddenly, oil prices skyrocketed because saudi arabia had decided that they were no longer going to give us any.
We had cars standing in the streets.
They had to enforce allocation amounts that were unfeasible for individuals who had gotten used to a very different way of living, and very different commutes, and it was both bad on a social and economic level insofar as economically it was very difficult to like deal with this expensive oil and be able to still provide and like still have money for other things, but socially, because it showed us as weak to the american people and prevented people from being able to live their everyday lives or exist as functioning members of society.
And we think this is like preferably not something we want, right?
But there's also a second layer here.
We think that you can't check against the abuses of these kinds of countries when you depend on them for oil, because you're always afraid of them taking it away.
I think a really good example of this is how saudi arabia is incredibly oppressive to women and practices a lot of like problematic things legally, etcetera, but we can never sanction them because if we did, we'd lose our oil and therefore our livelihood.
So it like forces the united states in situations where they have to weigh our economic solvency above necessarily the human rights abuses happening.
But this doesn't happen when we subsidize renewable energy, because it's something that we control and can sell technology to other countries.
So, we actually think that you get like a more effective policer of human rights abuses on our side of the house, when we can freely sanction other countries because there aren't any like harmful outcomes regarding oil.
Our second area of clash is about the necessity of doing this in order to do like stop global warming, etcetera.
Like recognize that global warming is really bad insofar as this floods coastlines, destroys cities and villages, allows diseases to spread, and kills crops as well as a slew of other impacts.
So it's important to stop the spread of global warming in order to stop these harms.
And so we think that it's actually really important when we take action against potential like take action towards renewable energy that would be less wasteful than like the greenhouse gases produced when you burn oil.
But also recognize that we're just running out of oil, right?
Like recognize that insofar as there's a limited supply and it takes millions of years to develop in the ground, there is no alternative for us but to find out a way to maximize our use of renewable energy, because otherwise we're just simply going to run out, and it's going to lead to all kinds of governmental instability and economic damages.
So we think that the US just needs to get on top of their shit and just go and subsidize this already, because otherwise we're going to push this to the last minute.
Like the oil the oil oligarchs are going to hold onto their power for as long as possible, and so we need this market incentive to spur the entire industry forward.
Like currently, oil has been normalized, and it's cheaper to use it.
Corporations don't invest and don't innovate because they see any other energy source as risky.
But now, if you get over that initial cost, then it's going to be cheaper into the long term and less risky because the initial infrastructure will be in place.
For these reasons, proud to propose.