The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the olympic games.
Two main areas of clash, the first on the way in which it devastates poorer country.
Recognize that bids for the olympic games traditionally go to developing countries because big western liberal democracies know that the financial burden is usually too big to bear or given that they're like the few who might actually have the resources to effect this change they oftentimes simply don't feel like it because of all the effort it takes or like political rile up that it causes.
So oftentimes, these more developing countries instead of those who can actually afford it take up the burden because they think it'll look good dash be an economic impetus whereas in reality they get stuck putting millions of dollars into infrastructure that no one ever uses again.
Like they're building a massive stadium and all of the associated housing for an event that literally will happen once in that country it like once in a century for a given country.
We saw this incredibly dramatically in the brazilian olympics where eventhough meanwhile there were like very real citizens of brazil starving and in need of actual attention, instead millions and millions of state funded dollars and like citizen funded dollars were going into building a stadium that they don't even have a sports team big enough to like use or another sport event that would ever use.
So, the problem here is that there isn't actually any long term economic solvency because it usually costs more than you'll earn from it and because the costs are so localized areas and regions that no one ever wants to go to.
It's also a problem because these stadiums are often built in poor areas given that they need to be next to an airport in the city center and but like this country but these nations can't build these in these stadiums and richer areas because there's too much political capital there that doesn't want it to occur.
So the only group of people that cannot control where the stadiums go tend to be the poor and so what happens is that because they don't have to ask for the consent of these people, these nations will build the stadiums on top of other people's homes and prevent them and push them out of these areas and out of these regions leaving them in even worse off situations than they had been before.
They also often pollute the area.
Like recognize when china hosted the olympics not too long ago, they had such a bad rating for their air after so many particles of different building materials were released into it that they killed thousands of people whose deaths were directly attributed to the pollution caused by the building and the tearing down of different buildings for the olympics.
Our second area of clash is how it causes political turmoil.
First it forces a lot of countries in a lot of leadership of countries into a small area which oftentimes creates like massive targets for these people, like recognize that individual countries send athletes who they tend to value a significant amount but also tend to send people like their presidents or people who are significant in the leadership to these events which means it creates a really large target for things like terrorist attacks as we saw in the nineteen seventy two munich massacre when palestinian terrorists killed off the israeli olympic team.
This both is like very that this creates a much larger harm than any other terrorist attack, because it makes a target of like an area that is supposed to be a safe space but also has the potential to give rise to a lot larger political tensions.
We saw this further when russia was hosting the sochi olympics when there was a lot of public disapproval due to the accommodations that actually heightened tensions between other countries and russia and we also saw this with the world war two olympics that were hosted in germany when they are fraught with racial tensions and like hitler basically showing off the fact that he hated all black people and jews.
We also think it promotes a really problematic form of nationalism in which it pits countries against each other athletically in addition to whatever else was going on at the same time which furthers any pre existing discontent and prevents collaboration in the future.
For these reasons, proud to propose.