The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize insider trading.
Two main areas of clash, but first, an overview, because I want to talk about what a crime is.
We think that, a lot of the time, things are criminalized for one of two reasons: either a, there are harms to the individual, these are instances of paternalism, or two, it is because this has massive external impacts and harms others.
Obviously, insider trading doesn't do harm to the individual, and it's criminalized because of supposed harms to other people.
But, the problem with this is that, even those arguments that say it harms the average consumer of the stock market are wrong.
They are presupposed on the idea that individual insiders can change the the initial minds of consumers.
But, if I was going to buy a stock, I was going to buy it either way.
The difference on our side of the house is that I am likely to buy that stock for cheaper, because I can buy it from an insider who knows their corporation is going down.
On their side of the house, I'm still going to buy the same stock, because presumably I made my mind up before hand, but it's going to be much more expensive, and inflated by the market.
At the point that, insider trading is a crime without a victim, we don't think you can criminalize it.
Two many areas of clash now: the first on why speculative markets are generally bad.
We think the issue of speculative markets is that, they are massively driven by arbitrary factors, rather than the actual value of the corporation, and the true value of the stocks.
A really great example is pets dot com, because, even though this website had no actual value, people were investing massive amounts of money into it, simply because the title of it suggested that, it should be something that was worth a lot.
It had a very desirable URL.
If someone with insider like through insider trading could say: look, pets dot com is trash, do not buy their stock, we think the crash that later happened, not just at pets dot com, but many dot coms, because of arbitrary like buying of stock, would not have happened.
We think the issue right now is that bubbles are allowed to gather, because people are buying up stock, based on the name of the site, or who bought it previously.
We think that, if microsoft was going to buy up a corporation right now, the corporation stock would drive up, just because microsoft bought it, even if even if microsoft bought a dying corpse.
We think the preferable system is one, in which you don't just do things because like you're speculating about them, but rather have real information for doing it.
But more than this, we think that general bloat reaffirms pre existing companies, and clogs innovation.
The fact that, just because microsoft can put their name on something drives up the price of a stock in that corporation, means that you reinforce monopolies, and reinforcing people's minds that, these are the corporations that ought be invested in in the future.
Cool, second area of clash is on why markets are benefited by by efficiency.
We think that, insider information, and following those patterns, means that bad stuff doesn't get invested in, and people don't lose the same kind of money on our side of the house.
We think that when you get good information, because, recognize that the information we get on our side is good, there's a market incentive to be trustworthy and honest, and in the end, even if the fact that your investors just won't invest with you anymore, doesn't motivate you, the fact that you can get charged with frauds will.
We think that what this means is that, you're actually going to keep things at their true value, because insiders will just say: this is what the stock is worth, this is what I am willing to pay for it, and you can follow the patterns of how they're investing, in their corporations.
We think this also evens out volatility, at the point that people can look at the trend of what the people actually running the corporation are doing, and stockbrokers themselves, they are less likely to have flight responses, based on arbitrary motions, and more likely to actually pay attention to patterns.
We think, this also just benefits market participants, right?
At the point that stocks aren't arbitrarily inflated, you are more likely to be able to buy more of the stock that you want, or be able to hone in on what you desire.
So, if you're going to spend a lot of money, you're going to know that it was actually worth it, and if you want to buy something that is of lower worth, then you can actually hone in on those things much better.
For these reasons, proud to propose.