Don't disband nasa.
First I want to talk about the importance of the research that nasa does.
Recognize that private firms cannot cooperate with each other or do their best work because they are limited by the fact that they are afraid of losing patents and losing competitiveness within the market.
But nasa doesn't care about profit margins because it's government supported.
It just wants to do what is best for research and best for the population that it serves as a government agency.
What this also does is makes it massively apolitical.
Like we've seen currently that russia even as we are having mass amounts of conflicts with countries like russia we see that it still works with russia and india regardless of these politics.
But other corporations don't run this way.
A lot of the time stockholders have strong political views that keep them from doing certain actions or supporting certain causes.
Like we think that some people have like principled aversions to providing a different like earth and so they're unlikely to like like support missions that have to do with terraforming mars.
And so I think that as long as there are like leanings to the stockholders rather than leanings to the general population and to research as an institution, it's never going to be as effective.
But also recognize that nasa provides a foundation for large corporations in a lot of ways.
Like all of the space hotels that space x is coming up for, all of like the new missions are all based on old nasa plans and nasa research because they're actually willing to do the basic research that needs to be done in order to create future good.
But our second area of clashe is about that, the incentive for products.
Like recognize that corporations never do basic research because basic research doesn't pay and doesn't get investments.
The the only thing that they can do are glamorous moon and mars hotel and comet mining because these are things that are less risky, unnecessarily garner investment and public attention.
But we need more fundamental things like analysis of gas environments like things like that in order to have like the functional systems that will allow us to do things like build hotels on mars.
But these are things that corporations will never pick up because they are necessarily risky, they have no way of knowing whether there is going to be a future profit output from doing these kinds of in depth and expensive analysis so they don't do it in the first place rather they wait for things like nasa to do them because then they can actually like afford to afford to risk like with their stockholders and things like that working on it.
We think that what they do like what nasa does is establishes feasibility which then allows private corporations to do the fancy things they could never do in any other world like we think that all you get on their side of the house is a much less developed space program overall and also no like fundamental research because there's never a profit incentive to do it.
Like we see this problem in all of the other sciences where the only kind of science that gets funded is in biomedical health care and like technology sectors because no one finds it useful to map the yeast genome even if this later becomes the fundamental building block for some really important medical cures and discoveries.
Our third area of clash is about patent spill over.
Recognize that private corporations do not have a requirement to make their patents public or like not profit driven in any way.
In fact one of the major incentives for their existence is to pump out a lot of patents that get them a lot of money.
But recognize that a lot of technology like has relied on the fact that nasa hasn't been someone who keeps their patents secret and actually puts them into the public domain really quickly.
Like examples of this include pens, the internet, computer science technology that were used to calculate how to get to the moon, three d printing, artificial limbs like recognize that literally all of solar technology was motivated by the fact that nasa had to come up with it to power their space ships.
We think that the fact that there are these useful like things developed along the way that can instantly pumped into the public sphere for development are incredibly important and disbanding the group that makes them would be really bad.
For these reasons proud to oppose.