The motion, for today's debate, is that we should cancel the social security tax.
Two main areas of clash: the first is just an exploration of how the system works, because I think that an understanding of how the system works, quickly shows you that it cannot continue to exist.
Basically, the idea is that you pay into a pool of money that current elders can use, because in the future, your next generation will do the same for you.
For decades upon decades, this system worked, because there was a relatively equal number of elders and youth, that would pay for them.
This meant that, old people could get paid for and there wasn't a fear on the part of the young people, that there wouldn't be enough for them in the future.
But the problem is that in the current world, birthrates are decreasing, and the life expectancy is increasing.
What this means is that, there are too many elders, and not enough youth.
Think of it like this: let's say there are ten people, these ten people have twelve children total.
If these twelve children each pay a proportion of their tax into supporting these other ten people when they are older, everyone gets to share a small amount of burden in order for these people to live relatively good lives, after they are retired.
But now, the current status is more like there are still ten people, but now there are only five youngsters.
Not only does this mean that each of these five have to pay more of a tax, as shown by the fact that the social security tax has increased every year for a while now, but more than this, it means that these five people are not going to have enough children, to make up for them in the future.
We think it leaves those people stranded, but more so, leads us to a crisis and to crash, more now than ever.
Because in the end, these people have to have some sort of retirement plan, and if their retirement plan no longer works even though they paid into it, these people are stranded without another option.
We think in the end, it is simply more efficient to have them save their own money, save that same twelve point four percent, for their own retirement and pay for themselves.
Second, though we want to talk about why we think this is generally unjust.
Because, we think it's important to note that, in such a system that is proportional to the amount that you put in, the majority of the time, the problem is that it's not as if for supporting those who are massively worse off than we are, we are just supporting the elderly who used to work jobs.
At the point that this is true, we think it is unjustified for the government to redistribute wealth in such a way.
We think that, generally, people have some ownership of their labor, and the fruits of that labor.
But this program is one that essentially forces people into a retirement plan, on the promise of future profits.
It's not as it's not like medicaid or welfare, where we know our taxes are going towards helping those who are in need, but rather it's an actual retirement program, that says: in the future we will support you.
We think that, people should be able to choose what kind of retirement program they're going to be a part of.
But unfortunately, these funds are a tradeoff: twelve point four percent now means I don't have that money to put into a four o one k, to put into my own kind of retirement plan, and we think this is a trade off that is dangerous, and leads to instability.
At the point that we know, in the status quo, that there's not going to be enough money in social security for us in the future, we think this places an undue burden on the current generation to try and leave more frugally, put away more money than they have.
But also, we think that often this takes money from the lower middle class, and redistributed to those who were better off in the past.
We think a lot of the time, the elderly, who benefitted off of social security, works the majority of their lives, and, if not for the promise of social security, could have put more of that money away.
We think that there are other programs, that are going to catch those who are truly struggling, programs like welfare, programs like medicaid, but in the end, if it comes to retirement, we think social security is not the way to go.
For these reasons, proud to propose.