Don't legalize sex selection.
Two main arguments.
First, on codifying bad social norms.
Recognize that the law sets cultural norms for people.
This is why we saw when we had the aids epidemic, individuals were less affected by the fact that individuals had aids, but became infinitely more unhappy and stigmatized those people a lot more once HIC laws passed that criminalize the passing on of HIV.
We also saw similar behaviors when the fourteenth amendment passed.
Sure, it didn't instantly erase all of racism, but it made it infinitely easier for the society to adopt policies, and recognize that they can no longer adopt racist policies that made equality more accessible in the future.
Allowing the signal allowing sex selection signals government consent into the action of sex selecting, and says that it's not a bad thing, although we think that it genuinely is.
Like, recognize that choosing to have one gender over another is often a reflection of the internal bias that the individual who is having that child harbors.
And the majority of the time, when this kind of thing is condoned in a society widescale, it means that you are going to have massively disproportionate amounts of boys versus girls and vice versa.
So we think that it becomes incredibly problematic when the government makes it easier for individuals to accomplish that, because not only does it screw society into the long term as we're going to talk about later, but it necessarily gives more value to one gender and one type of individual above the other, which we think is philosophically incompatible with the way that we ought be viewing and living in the world.
Our second argument is about the way in which it facilitates discrimination.
Sex selection only happens in countries that have preferences for men over women, not sam's innocent reasons that he talks about, about how you've had so many boys and now you want a girl, like recognize that this just isn't the way that individuals use this the majority of the time.
We think that that minority of groups that might do it for the reasons that sam says matter a lot less than the fact that in massive countries like china and india, this is done exclusively so that you can get rid of your your female children, and have space for male ones.
Which we think is incredibly problematic, because this is also done for cultural and sexist reasons that we need to eliminate, if we have any hope of having a society where woman can do things like have equal pay, or equal job opportunities, or equal educational opportunities.
Sexism is not a preference that we think parents should have a right to fulfill, insofar as their sexism molds the society that their children have to live in, and that other women have to live in.
Moreover, it reaffirms the biases that these societies have over and over.
There is no way to break the cycle, because people can just act in opposition of positive norms that we would prefer to instill.
Like how would you expect someone to be believed when they continually yell that it's a better idea to have an equal number of boys and girls, if the state and many popular individuals within it continue to do things like have sex-selective abortions, so they can have the specific gender that they prefer.
We think that because these are two contradicting things, there will never be a world in which we actually end with those norms.
But our third argument is about the way it exacerbates the gender imbalance.
We think the problem of too many men is one that is incredibly real in society.
Like we can look to countries like china, that literally have such an imbalance of men to women that not only is sexual assault sky high, but it's incredibly different difficult for people to find partners in the future.
So you have swaths of unmarried chinese men that are lonely and don't have company and also aren't operating as family units, which is really problematic.
But we also just think that this means that issues within like society and in the workplace become infinitely less safe and infinitely less solvable.
Because it's really hard for a woman to get support that stops sexist policies in the workplace, if there aren't any other women there because your society has a like a structurally lower number of women than men.
It also just makes it a lot harder to do things like influence sexual assault legislature or anything like that, because men aren't as much personally affected by it as women are, so they don't have the same incentives that women do to make sure that it is stopped.
We think that it also leads to other sexist policies.
Proud to oppose.