The problem with what drew's saying is that he assumes that you cannot explain the lines to humans, and especially adults, between where physical violence is okay and where it isn't.
We take issue with the idea that somehow, because you were beaten as a child, because a school or the military use corporal punishment, these are also the mindsets that you must take unlimited into the rest of your lives.
We think that people are generally rational and once they are adults, you can explain that this is violence for this purpose and perhaps beating up civilians is not okay.
With that, two areas of clash, the first on philosophy and why we think drew's standards are philosophically incoherent.
First, we beg government to explain why physical punishment is so much more bad than mental, because recognize that current standards of punishment where we lock people up in jails, where we limit their access and their freedom of movement, is incredibly psychologically manipulative and causes massive emotional and mental distress.
On a physical level, recognize that these kinds of pains are not different.
The same neurons that fire when I burn my hand also fire when I am angry or upset or emotionally unhappy, and we think that this is a recognition that their side just doesn't take.
At the point that physically there is no difference between mental and emotional violence and that which is physical, we don't think they have any grounds to stand on.
But more than that, we think that oftentimes a case by case basis is incredibly important, because context necessarily changes the behavior and the ethics of that behavior, depending on the circumstance.
We think that the universalizability that drew advocates for is necessarily impossible because there is never going to be an instance where behavior is always going to be wrong.
Even the most harmful of acts, such as killing, are considered justified if you're doing it in self-defense or if you're doing it for a reason that you deem incredibly important, because all of are all of our actions are context-based, and maybe I wouldn't have done the same thing if I was living in a different era or was faced with a different location or a different set of decisions, but I am and as such, I must analyze those actions in that context.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think, yes, this is an effective way of creating association but more so, is very important for the purposes that we need it for.
We think, sure, it's extrinsic at first, but you associate with intrinsic values over the long term.
Example: in school, maybe a child hits or steals something from another child.
So you, short term, wrap them on the knuckle so that they don't do it in the do it for now, and then in the long term, teach them why stealing is bad.
We think that a lot of the time you need to stop the behavior first and make sure it doesn't continue, because you want it to not hurt others before you can create an intrinsic association.
We often we also think this happens with military stuff as well.
You need to train your soldiers quickly and there isn't necessarily time to explain the reasoning behind every single action.
So you do so through physical punishment.
We think this is fine because in the long term, you do explain to your soldiers what you're doing and you do create an association that is deeper than extrinsic, but that short term is very important.
Finally though, we want to talk about ease of access, because we think that, a lot of the time, physical violence is one of the few metrics we have by which to control other people's behaviors in a way that we think is often less rights-violative.
We think that it is hypocritical that there is an acceptance of of solitary confinement, which can actively drive people insane, but somehow lashes are impermissible.
We think, in fact, a lot of people would find it preferable to have physical pain substituted for years spent in jail, because it means they can move on with their lives faster, go back to being a functioning member of society.
Not only do we think that physical violence is as corporal punishment is permissible, but we actually think it can be preferable to other kinds of punishment.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.