The motion for today's debate is that we should cancel the patriot act.
We mean by this is that we would prefer it if lawmakers immediately took action against the patriot act and so, from now on, it would not exist as well as the rules that it has in place.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why it is an unjust passing.
Recognize that in if we show you that, in the first place, this patriot act should never have passed, it ought necessarily be repealed now.
Recognize that in democracy, policy needs to be consensual, because democracy is based on consent of the government and if you don't have consent of the governed, then it necessarily means that you are oppressive and not operating in a way that is legitimate.
And in order to have the consent of the governed, it's not enough just like exist as like a theoretically consensual western liberal democracy, rather that consent and that desire has to be reflected in the in like public policy.
And like and this is true not just for like just general democratic reasons, but also because the political will of the people who are governed needs to be reflected insofar as they are most affected by it.
Insofar as this is true, any policy passed without consent is illegal and oppressive.
Consent requires two things.
First, it requires alternatives.
This is true because only with alternatives are we able to avoid coercion.
If I'm told that my mother is going to die unless I do this one thing and if I do nothing, then she will pass, then necessarily I'm going to do that one thing because I don't see there being a viable alternative.
This would be the truth even if what I'm going to do is something incredibly bad and problematic, like stealing something or going against my own moral claims.
We think people would still often make that decision because the alternative is something much worse.
This is coercive and nonconsensual, though, because in a world in which I had full freedom, I wouldn't do it.
But second, we think that emotional stability is also incredibly important insofar as this is the the reason that we don't think consent is required when someone is really drunk, or even when someone is like not necessarily like like enthusiastically consenting, because in order to have consent, you have to establish rationality, because that's the only world in which you know that that person truly wants what is happening.
But recognize that the patriot act was passed right after nine eleven.
People were terrified.
This means that they weren't emotionally stable.
They were just trying to find a way to feel safe in a moment where they couldn't figure out how.
But also, recognize that it also they were also told this was the only thing they could do in order to prevent terrorism.
Thus, there were no alternatives in their mind, because the government necessarily posed it as if if we don't pass this act, terrorists will overrun our country, and the united states will cease to exist.
This necessarily made this act coercive, which means it would never should never happened.
We think we're fine with a world in which we like cancel the patriot act now and recreate all the votes, and if like all the people still want it, we would allow it to pass.
But we still think that it needs to go through that kind of check before we can accept it.
Our second area of clash is about how it's rights violative.
First recognize that it allows the government to spy on its citizens, thus violating the right to privacy and other like consent frameworks we think are important.
This is something that the government should never legislate in a way that they allow themselves to do it, and like necessarily ought not exist in a democratic society in which people should have their full and free rights in order to self-actualize and exist in a way that they feel safe.
But also, recognize that it does an incredibly problematic thing as well in that it it lets the government obstruct obstruct the rights of the accused by hiding evidence.
Because part of the patriot acts act says that if the government has evidence that they think like leads them to a terrorist organization, they don't have to show it in court, but that person can still be like indicted based on it.
This constitutionally violates the right to a fair trial insofar as it creates an imbalance between the government and anyone who's trying to defend the convicted, because the government can just say, " but look, this is really compelling like evidence, we just can't show it to you, " on the grounds of national security.
Insofar as this is unconstitutional and has bad pragmatic outcomes, proud to propose.