Subsidize recycling.
We think that what we're meaning by subsidization is specifically focusing primarily and like first and foremost on efforts to extend accessible recycling to regions that currently don't have it.
I come from an area that just doesn't have bins that can be taken from someone's doorstep with recycling rather you have to collect your recycling and then drive to an area forty minutes away to get it recycled.
Clearly this is a very massive disincentive from someone ever recycling in my area because people are busy, they have jobs and lives and it is an awful expectation to say that it is the burden on them to go and perform such a rudimentary task when we aren't expected to do so with our trash.
We think that these kinds of accessibility issues are what are preventing us from accessing a world in which recycling is normalized and in which we're saving more resources and preventing things like pollution.
So with that, three main areas of clash, first on the culture shifts.
We think that the normalization of recycling is a really important component of this round because currently the problem is that there is no shame in the majority of places if you're not a recycler because in a lot of these areas it is simply not a reasonable expectation for you to be a recycler.
If you have to drive forty minutes to an hour to get to the place where you recycle everything, if you have to save things for months and months and months in your basement because you just don't use enough materials that are worth recycling to do it more regularly, if you are really really busy or don't have a car these are all very easy impediments in the status quo that we think ought be eliminated and we've seen can be eliminated by like characterized by the fact that if you live in anywhere in massachusetts or new hampshire or many other states in the united states you don't have to do those drives and you have those bins on your doorstep.
We think that we need to create a world in which it is reasonable to expect the average person to recycle and so they have no excuses.
Recognize that government signaling influence in these kinds of things in a way that interplays with the fact that we are now like monetarily and accessibility wise influencing it.
If the government says hey look we're taking the climate seriously now we're taking recycling seriously now that's something that people tend to follow because the government represents a certain amount of role model to the general population or at least to like specific subsets of the population that we think would be influenced here.
We also think that like this is this is generally something that is like good in other ways too which brings us to our second independent point which is about conserving resources.
Recognize that aluminum, plastics, and a lot of the other materials that are recyclable are incredibly limited and actually quite expensive, like aluminum is literally a non renewable resource so the more aluminum foil we do not recycle the more expensive aluminum gets future on.
So we think the problem there is that you are literally throwing away things that could be reused and may keep that cheap and keep that accessible to other people in the future but also recognize that landfills in themselves are also limited land masses like that a space that once you fill up no longer exists and it is a space that is very like not particularly accessible in other locations like you have to have landfills in particular areas and that's not something that changes on either side of the house and recognizing there's also an environmental impact in that a lot of the recyclable stuff that gets thrown away is also the most likely to leak chemicals so a lot of the plastics that we give out a lot of the silicons like all of the technology that we throw it in the trash all of these have environmental impacts in that they will leak chemicals that will like do things like pollute ground water kill animals so on so forth.
Or third area of clash isabout economics.
Recognize that like a lot of these products just get more expensive if you're not recycling them because now you have to go back into the manufacturing process or in the case of like non renewable resources such as aluminum or a lot of the heavy heavy metals or rare metals that our like technology computers phones etcetera is made out of these things get more expensive every time you throw one of them out.
We think that recycling saves money on landfills and on new materials, we really think there's no reason not to subsidize it, and we think it's a reasonable thing to expect the government to provide insofar as it is the people who end up suffering the government needs to be protecting.
Proud to propose.