Don't ban surrogacy.
First, I want to question james's claim that he can just ban both forms of surrogacy commercial and altruistic because recognize that he can't ban altruistic surrogacy.
These are agreements that just get made between people and they don't have to be made in an official capacity.
They don't have to have a contract written up.
They can happen through word of mouth behind closed doors as verbal agreements and the problem is that the moment you accept the realization that you can't ban altruistic surrogacy, you also have to realize that this means you can't ban people getting paid for it because they'll just get a check for five hundred dollars or x number of dollars that nobody will be able to check and no one will be able to quantify as for the fact that they were a surrogate.
So all that happens on james' world is that you're going to have surrogacy and you're going to have both kinds where people are getting paid and when they're not getting paid it's just not going to happen in official capacity.
There aren't going to be contracts written up and we think that's actually worse because it means the government can't regulated it at all.
With that three main arguments: first, on the woman's choice.
I think it is nonsense to say that surrogacy is exploitative especially when it is compared to the majority of the other jobs that individuals can work because recognize that any kind of job exploits a person's labor.
It says here we're going to pay you something probably less than whatever the end product of your labor is worth and you're going to build something or code something or help someone and you're going to do these things and we think that all of these are exploitations of individuals, right?
We think that people say " I'm okay with being exploited because I want to get paid " and we don't think that this is any meaningfully different.
It's just a different kind of labor that you're exploiting.
Like it's the woman's body that you're exploiting rather than like her ability to dance well or her being a fry cook or any number of other jobs that a woman can have, right?
And we don't think that james did a good job of portraying a potential difference, he just asserted that it is so don't let him get away with that.
We also just don't think it's the right of the government to prevent women from being able to choose this, right?
Like women can conceptualize the potential harms and weigh that against the money and the medical care that they will receive for themselves.
Most women who do surrogacy are those that are either already have children or are planning on having children either way.
This isn't some foreign concept to these women the government needs to protect them from.
Moreover, you can research the effects of pregnancy, right?
Like fifty one percent of the population has the ability to get pregnant and a large amount of those women do so.
So we just don't think that it's the case that individuals who opt for surrogacy aren't able to conceptualize what they're opting for.
Our second argument is about the economic empowerment of women.
Surrogacy pays and it often pays better than the alternatives.
This is good because it means that instead of doing some physical labor or having to stay at home the alternatives for women without higher education in a lot of places these women can instead be surrogates, make more money than they would have gotten from that other job and usually not have to do nearly as much hard work for it.
The money they earn can then be used for anything from furthering their economic situation in other ways.
In developing countries this might mean buying an animal of some sort.
It might also look like putting yourself in school so you can get a degree.
But it could also just go towards impacting your quality of life directly like maybe you have children who have to provide for or rent you have to make, things like that.
It also provides these women with top notch medical care during the process since their kid is often going to some rich person who wants a healthy child.
Our third argument is that it's good for the economy of the country.
Different market sectors that get opened up as a result of surrogacy create different jobs in a variety of places.
It's not just the surrogates who can get jobs get jobs now, it's also about the facilities and the people who run them as well as all of the bureaucracy around setting up adoption and managing the process.
It puts money into the hands of people who often have less of it and now they can participate in the economy which we think is good.
Proud to oppose.