This house would not close down guantanamo.
Three main areas of clash, the first on the false sense of solvency that gets created on side on side government.
Recognize that guantanamo might be the loudest, might be the brightest, and might be the most publicly focused-on military black site, but it's not the only one, and we think that it's actually really important that it has a lot of public attention, because what the public then does is requires the government to institute regulations and justifications for its existence that never get applied if we didn't hear about it in the first place.
So, like, we know that there are military black sites that are a lot worse than guantanamo in iran and iraq and other countries, but the only way in which we get to access regulating those nations is by setting a precedent with guantanamo.
If guantanamo was shut down, we think two things would happen.
First, we'd no longer have a specific entity at which we have to power a political discourse, so you never actually get any kind of solvency for any other black site besides guantanamo, but second, we think that people are just going to think that the solution has occurred, because it is actually a large majority of individuals who recognize that they're against the existence of guantanamo, but forget that there are similar kinds of setups all across the world.
And so we think that leaving the rest to function without any kind of question is really bad, and so we actually prefer guantanamo to be open so that it can be kind of the focus of all of the political anger surrounding the existence of it.
Our second area of clash is about political necessity.
Recognize that the way that the reason we have guantanamo still open is because every time a democrat tries to shut it down, the republicans throw a hissy fit and explain that it is necessary militarily and that a lot of important things happen there and that the prisoners who are kept there could not safely be kept anywhere else.
Even if this is factually hogwash, recognize that individuals believe this kind of thing, especially those who vote for the republican senators and republican presidents who have advocated for that and as such, you would be turning off a major portion of the population.
We think that you need to have a face for the regulations that do come in place because that way, you actually have the ability to flow them over to other black sites if you make the policies general enough.
We also think this is that terror attacks have been made in the name of guantanamo, and we don't think that you can capitulate to those demands now, even if it has been like a longer amount of time or anything like that.
We think at the end of the day, like if someone is going to be blowing someone else and then saying, " we're doing this because you're not closing down guantanamo, " and then you close down guantanamo, you're showing them that the methodology that they are using is functional and can be used again in the future.
So we think the recipe for more terror attacks is to show that we are willing to negotiate with terrorists this once, and we just don't think that that tradeoff is worth it, especially given that guantanamo currently is in a state where we can regulate it to the point where maybe it will not be as bad.
But our third area of clash is about why it's bad for the current prisoners.
Because recognize that there's no world in which guantanamo shuts down and everyone currently being kept there just gets to go free and wander the world, and everything is rainbows.
Rather, we think what happens is that these people with still having had no trial and no real political solvency are going to get moved either to a supermax jail in america or to a different american black site in the rest of the world.
So first let's deal with this idea of the supermax.
We think that this is actually infinitely worse for guantanamo, seeing as they're going to be put in physical danger and are much more likely to get killed by something like white supremacy gangs in those areas.
We think that plenty of people want to feel like they kill terrorists, and so we think that putting people who literally the state has labeled as terrorists into public-owned prisons is a really bad idea.
And then, obviously, taking them to american black site just means that you have even less oversight than we currently do, so they're likely to have to go through even more harm than in the status quo.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.