Don't disband NASA.
Two arguments, first on why it is good to have a nonprofit motivated space company.
Recognize that private companies are really problematic because their main goal is always to maximize profit margins, not to bring out the objectively good product or to do any kind of basic research or to help society.
It means that when they do space exploration, they focus on things like tourism and resource extraction, not doing things that we would find more useful like looking for alien life or looking for looking for livable environments abroad or designing inventions that might be effective at making people's lives easier in space because they're not actually expecting individuals to need them, they're focusing on other issues.
We think that NASA sets the ground research for others to function off of.
They're going to do that basic research because they have the ability to do it when they're not worried about profit maximization.
They're more likely to go for the interesting stuff that companies dismisses as useless because they don't need the money coming from it, they just are interested in creating as cohesive and as whole like holistic of an explanation of like world phenomena as possible.
We also think it's more likely to benefit the broad population because it's not the case things that are like loud and flashy are always the ones that are most beneficial to the majority.
In fact we think the tourism that is often like quoted as the goal of a lot of private space exploration companies is only ever going to be accessible to individuals who have a lot of money that are capable of going on those kinds of trips and doing that kind of exploration.
So we think it becomes really important that you have public like NASA kind of organizations that are going to be doing the work that isn't just for the richest of the rich so they can make a lot of money.
We also just have to think that it was james' job to warrent why the money is going to go to the things that he says it's going to go to.
Like we think of the US government is really good at creating sinks for public money in things that are completely useless to the public like things like mass amounts of military expenditures and I don't think that's something that is like unlikely, right?
We think that we live under a republican government right now that is really into the military and so is likely to just take the money that comes from NASA and sink it into the military industrial complex which means it's not doing things like going to disaster relief or like food security or anything like that.
At worse, we just get another company that goes into like space exploration which we think is in itself a good thing but at best you have a nonpartisan company that is willing to do things that are outside the scope of profit interest but inside the scopes of consumer and the general populace interests.
Our second argument is about the importance of space exploration, because james burns awhile being like it's no longer needed but recognize that it's not it's not about it not being needed at all anymore, it's about what the ultimate goal and what it is needed for.
So we think that it might be the case that we no longer need to do things like get to the moon which was the goal of the nineteen hundreds but we do still need it to do things like explore space, could like get resources, figure out whether or not there's alien life, like find another planet that might be more habitable after we make earth inhabitable.
Things like that are still really really important like drew was lying, the space program wasn't a missile front, I don't know where he got that really weird conspiracy theory from.
We did it because we wanted to beat the soviets to the moon and now we need to search space for alternatives in which we can live and for resources that we may might want or even for dumping grounds for our garbage like anything like that is useful.
Recognize that earth like fundamentally is dying like recognize that we need somewhere to put our trash recognize that we need space and planet resources, and recognize that we still don't know if there's life outside.
All of these things are independent reasons to vote for opposition.
Proud to oppose.