The motion for today's debate is that we should ban ban free newspapers.
The model for this is that we would essentially have a law that you cannot put out free newspapers into like public spaces and that in order to be able to spread your newspaper to the public you must have it in some sort of enclosed box with a lock on it that requires people to pay a sum of money, can be as low as a few pennies or twenty five cents, in order to remove that newspaper from that container.
Three main areas of clash.
The first on pollution, because I think at the point that we have widespread internet access and you have the ability of people to access news in ways far beyond print media that is often more affordable even than free newspapers at the point that they can literally be done on your phone or on your home computer or at the office rather than having to go and walk to these areas to grab these newspapers, we think that pollution becomes a very very big deal.
Because why should you continue to do something that is unnecessary if by not doing it you can save the environment at the same time?
Recognize that when something is free, people are very likely to mindlessly take that material and leave and then are much less likely to care about the material that they leave behind.
This is simple because when you're when someone does not value something and they're willing to just take it mindlessly because they might read it on the train because they do not have a price on it and they do not value it personally it is much easier for them to leave it behind because they will not miss it when it is gone.
What this means is that you get literally hundreds and thousands of these free newspapers littering the cities that distribute them.
This is incredibly problematic because oftentimes they're made with ink that is not very environmentally friendly.
These large clumps end up at our water and end up like within all like all over the ground which is aesthetically displeasing.
Moreover when you have unlocked containers that do not require money to retrieve a newspaper whenever they get knocked over or whenever they are left open when there is rain outside you end up with large spills of these like of these newspapers all over that area.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we want to promote the inclusion of real material.
Now that it costs something to like own this newspaper, less people are going to automatically take it from the bin.
This changes the incentive structure of the people who are producing it.
If you actually have to make people want to read it, you are much more likely to put real material besides advertisements within its pages because otherwise you are not going to be profitable and you're never going to get an audience.
Because we think this is actually a good change in incentive structure because we prefer a world in which you have more quality material even if you have less material overall.
We believe in quantity rather than quality.
There can be a million useless newspapers that no one reads and we prefer the world in which you get three or four where people can actually rely on the information within them and prefer to read it when they pick it up.
Our third area of clash has to do with why free newspapers contribute to the death print media.
First is the general perception.
When you see old newspapers rolling around on the ground looking gross when you see these newspapers left on subways and you see people discard them so easily you get the perception that society does not value these newspapers and thus you yourself do not value them.
This translates into other print media because at the point that it is easy for you to access this information online, it's unclear why you should be involving yourself in a form of media that everyone else seems to reject.
More than this though we also think that people get desensitized to these kinds of things.
Like at the point that you pick up so many newspapers and none of them are relevant to you, there comes a time when you just stop picking them up entirely.
This ruins it for those who actually love and read newspapers such as large portions of the elderly or even those who are younger and are rediscovering print media.
For these reasons, proud to propose.