The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit nuclear power.
We being global governments across the world and exploiting meaning heavy investment into nuclear research and power and the building of power plants.
Two main areas of clash, the first on general prose of nuclear power.
We tell you, first, it is infinitely cheaper than any of our alternatives.
Recognize that going from oil that needs to be dug up requires expensive rigs, gas that needs the same kind of investment as oil and can only be provide by certain governments that control the price, even to things like wind where large turbines need to be built and controlled, all of these things are infinitely cheaper with something like nuclear power.
Where once you have the initial plant built all you need is materials that can be produced within labs for relatively low prices.
Especially as more groups of people provide more research and these corporations can compete with each other.
More than this we tell you that nuclear power plants are infinitely renewable.
You don't have to wait millions of years for plant matter to compact, you don't even have to wait for the corn to grow out, as is the way for things like bio-fuels.
But we also say that it's not as environmentally damaging as any of these alternatives that often create harmful by products that keep up the that damage the environment and make it more difficult to breathe.
We also tell you that the main argument against nuclear power plants is just false.
People say that it's so dangerous and chernobyl happened.
The problem with this is that chernobyl happened is a one percent chance risk a hundred years ago at a time where it was first technology that was much less developed but also in a time where these kind of safety regulations wasn't warrant as employed.
We tell you that learning from chernobyl allows us to create nuclear power plants that are almost impossible to fail.
That allow us to build out of materials that prevent exposure to nuclear fallout, that allow us to put in safety buttons that shut down the plant at the moment that there seems to be a problem.
We think that this kind of risk is immensely outweighed in so far the one percent chance of this nuclear power plant failing is much less than the fact that it can supply millions of people with energy and that one country can be powered by one large reactor.
But more than this we think that nuclear reactors generate important jobs and research.
We think it's good for our economy to invest in something like nuclear energy especially since oil and gas run out and get more expensive by the day that they run out.
We think at the point that you can invest in something that is renewable and invest in your own corporations to develop that this is necessarily positive for economies.
But we also think it's good for collaboration insofar as governments can collaborate with each others each other and research centers can move across nations in order to work on better technology.
Our second main area of clash has to do with why we don't have a choice.
We tell you there's not enough oil and gas, that bio-fuels are also not as easily renewable and take up more energy, and that things like wind energy and sun energy require for the wind and the sun to be present in order to use them.
We tell you that unlike them, nuclear power applies across the globe equally.
Regardless of whether you are in norway, where the sun never shines, or in south africa where the wind is very low.
We think that it's important to note that nuclear energy uniquely provides a way for which all governments, all areas across the globe can be powered.
But more than this, we tell you that eventually those developing countries will want to be fully developed.
The main reason that we still have gas in the status quo is because countries in africa and countries in east asia don't use as much power because they are not as developed as current first world countries.
We tell you the moment that these countries fully develop, provide power to all of their citizens, and invest in things like wifi that reaches across the globe, we lose out on the fact that they don't use as much power and the world power and the world's power consumption goes up massively.
We tell you we need to be prepared for this moment and the only way to do so is by investing in something like nuclear power that actually allows countries to develop fully without fear of harming everyone around them.
For these reasons proud to propose.