The motion for today's debate is that we should raise the retirement age.
Currently it is around sixty five we're talking about the united states so we would probably raise it to about seventy to seventy five years old, but I think the debate is more broadly about whether or not this is a good idea.
Two main areas of clash, first about accommodating the age range shift.
Recognize that two things have occurred, first that people are becoming adults later.
They're leaving the house and their family a lot later, they don't oftentimes people don't exit college till their early to mid twenties and even then they often live at their parents' for a little bit longer than that.
It used to be that individuals would start to leave the house at like eighteen as soon as high school ended like they would start working right away and they would get married right away.
But in a society that has started more and more to value college education and to have less and less jobs that someone can acquire and live off of right after high school, it has like caused individuals to have the average age that is much higher for becoming financially independent of their parents.
This has become from like eighteen to like twenty one to twenty four-ish.
This means that people are getting their jobs and becoming contributors contributors to society a lot later.
The second component is that people are dying a lot later.
The average age of death used to be around sixty to seventy five, but now it's a lot closer to eighty to ninety.
It means that people have to live on retirement benefits for a lot longer if the window has shifted it makes sense that the retirement should age should accommodate that in order to reflect the needs of individuals and society.
We think that the problem is that when you have a retirement age that is lower than the general population, you're not actually accommodating what that society needs or making sure that people are properly taken care of.
We think it's important that the that like the legislature reflects what actually happens within society which it doesn't in the status quo.
But our second area of clash is about maximizing social productivity.
I think first we need to talk about avoiding the social security network crash.
The social security system is already overloaded and it gets a lot worse when people live on it for longer because they retired earlier but lived also for longer.
Like these systems just weren't created to keep people going for more than like five years than the expected age at which they should die was a lot earlier.
So what happens is that regardless of how much someone contributed into that system and regardless of how long it occurred for and regardless of whether or not they can keep working, they're able to collect social security benefits which necessarily takes it away from the generation after.
It means that the money takes away from these consecutive generations and they're stuck with a mass once they hit retirement age and they actually have to work for longer not by choice and not by legislature but rather because they have no fiscal ability to stay stable otherwise.
A lot of people are also forced into retirement early by this age.
We think that individuals have a right to keep working if that is what the preferr to do and what happens in the status quo is that a lot of industries will instantly push out individuals who happen to be of retirement age just because they can and can have replacement.
We think that a lot of stigma exists around someone being older in a certain field that is incredibly unfair and oftentimes especially in like companies that want to appear young and hip people get pushed out even if they're fully capable of meeting their responsibilities and the age and like the retirement age is used as an excuse.
We think first that we need to like we need to confront this ageism on face but also that we think that a lot of the time it's a lot more fiscally rewarding to keep working, like a lot of people leave sectors that are going to pay them a lot more than social security benefits would and I think that it should be up to them to make that calculus.
But also I think general productivity also gets affected.
We think we prefer for people to be contributing to society as long as possible.
Every person retired when they could be contributing is a net loss to society.
Old people often suffer from loneliness and what happens when you retire when you would prefer not to or before you like should is that you spend a lot more time being alone and like suffer from the epidemic that we see a lot with old people where they don't actually get like the attention they want and they are at much higher risk for healthcare problems than people of their age who are still working and like happy.
For these reasons proud to propose.