The motion for today's debate is that we should ban organic food.
We think that better framing for this debate round has to do with why we prioritize efficiency above like maybe the health of the kind of food that we consume.
We think it's important to note that with rising population numbers across the world come rising rates of world hunger and starvation.
The most important thing is just focus on these solutions before we start moderate increases perhaps in the health.
We will also dispute how healthy organic foods are later of those who are already at the top of the world in regards to how wealthy they are.
So, first, on our two areas of clash, why organic food is incredibly inefficient.
First we tell you that the amount of land mass that it requires is much larger than that of regular inorganic food.
This has to do with the fact that because of the way that organic food grows, they grow slower and with less yield, and so you need much more land in order to come up with an even comparable amount to the amount that you can grow in inorganic food.
So, say, for every two acres of land of organic food, I can fit the same amount of food into half an acre when I'm growing inorganic food.
This means that it's much more expensive to maintain, but also that it's much harder to feed the same amount of people with organic food as it is with inorganic food.
Second, we think that it requires much more water, because it can't be genetically engineered to keep its keep its need for water or sunlight or other resources low.
So not only is it more more temperamental so it needs to be grown in the correct temperature, it also requires much more of a valuable resource to be wasted on it in order to grow the same amount.
We think it's silly to reject the good that GMOs and other kinds of genetically engineered food have done for us because in the end, being able to engineer a food group to not mean the same amount of water, to not need the same amount of sunlight, has saved millions of lives.
And risking this because a couple of hipsters want to look good and feed their children organically is never a good idea.
More than this, we want to talk about the longer growing period that organic food requires.
Because what this what we can do with inorganic food is regardless of what the current season is or what the current harvest schedule is, you can change that in order to come up with more food in the long term.
Again, given the rising population, we think this is the most important thing in the round.
But finally, we think that the fact that you don't get to use pesticides in organic food means that you are much more prone to diseases, and these diseases spread much more quickly.
What this means is that organic foods are much more prone to crises than those that are inorganic because, at least with organic with inorganic food, if one of them gets a disease, you can cut that one out, spray them with pesticides and like insecticides and and like other things to get rid of the disease, and move on.
But with organic foods, one plant one diseased plant can kill off the entire field, putting you back to the beginning.
Our second main area of clash has to do with what with how inorganic food isn't actually significantly worse.
A lot of why organic food is so attractive to people is because of the marketing that is put behind it.
The demonization of inorganic food and the pedestal upon which organic food is put upon is largely a creation of capitalists, who want more money in their pockets from people who are gullible and willing to believe them.
We think it's not actually better for you.
They just want to make money, and sometimes they carry disease that inorganic foods don't, because those foods can actually be treated and you can make sure that they are safe.
We think the existence of the label itself is damaging, and that's why it ought be banned, because it causes an unfounded fear of inorganic food in people that causes them to spend exorbitant amounts of money on organic food and stop us from using that same land to produce much more needed GMOs that can feed more people in a healthier way.
We think that it's very dangerous that the world is falling for this ploy, where they're willing to pay so much for food that is not healthier for you, because GMOs can actively be changed in order to have more nutrients, and doesn't help the world as much.
For these reasons, proud to propose.