Don't ban standardized tests.
I think the problem here is that tim assumes that if you have standardized tests you have to tie the funding of a universe of a high school to the performance of students on that test.
I don't think we have to do that.
I think the vast majority of public schools are actually funded through things like property taxes and the only funding that is determined on standardized test performance is usually extra besides that.
So we're fine with a world in which we don't have that tie between public funding and standardized test performance, but we think that what government has to defend is a world in which we don't have any standardized tests at all and we think that that's something that is really difficult insofar as we actually think that aside from the funding mechanisms standardized tests tend to be incredibly necessary.
Two many areas of argumentation, first the way in which standardized tests interact with universities and college educations when when people graduate high school and need to apply to college.
Recognize that universities need a way to compare applicants from incredibly diverse areas of the world and and like regions of the united states specifically that differ significantly in the way that they teach.
So some people go to schools like bronx science which happens to be a top science academy in the country versus other individuals who might grow up in rural areas and go to schools that have significantly less resources than that.
But somehow we cannot have a world in which the applicant from bronx science always beats out the applicant from that rural school because we would see that as unfair and not a true measuring of the individual's intelligence, just a measure of where they happen to go to high school.
So what we then have to do is have a way in which we can standardize their knowledge across those fields.
So even if the rural person happens to do worse on the standardized tests than the bronx science individual the fact that they had the potential to beat them by outperforming them on that exam is always going to be better than a world in which we defacto agree to honor what high school that individual want to first.
Recognize that since every school teaches differently and provides different experiences, standardized tests are necessary for colleges to not have to categorize those differences individually so that my experiences like the president of x club or taking this AP class, how did that compare to someone who was an IB program and was the vice president of a different club at a larger call at a larger high school.
Those things are really hard for universities to standardize on an individual basis.
Standardized tests make it a lot easier, especially since bureaucratic requirements basically would need a world in which the alternative is just relying on the high school that they went to or the parental background, that because this is easier cheaper and doesn't require them to dig through all that paperwork.
This will necessarily disadvantage to those who come from less known high schools and necessarily those whose disadvantaged those who couldn't afford to do things like move so their kid could access a better high school or provide them with like massive resources for extracurriculars.
Our second argument is about standardization for learning.
Tim made a lot of arguments about why it's bad to teach for the test, but he doesn't realize that the alternative for a lot of high schools is that you don't teach students at all ie you will have high schools that just won't have an advanced algebra and advanced calculus class unless there's a standardized test on the horizon.
So the only way in which you force those high schools to actually teach students is by requiring them to have something like a standardized test that evaluates at least teacher performance.
We think that it's really good to require schools to all hit some kind of metrics so that students aren't massively disadvantaged depending on which high school district they came from.
Of course this isn't a perfect system.
We think that we can point to tons of situations in which students from inner city schools tend to be less advantaged than those who come from preppy like private schools and things like that, but at least in terms of the public scale, we think the only way in which you start solving that is by having a system like standardized tests that require all schools to be equal at least in one respect, you have to teach this thing.
And also providing knowledge of whether or not they're not accomplishing that.
We think that even though funding mechanisms can be really pernicious right now, one of the things that this does is provides us with data for the future of how to fix these problems.
Proud to oppose.