The motion for today's debate is that we should raise the fuel tax.
What we mean by this is that we would raise the tax on any kind of natural gas, oil, anything used as a fuel either for vehicles or for homes.
Two main areas of clash, first on stopping global climate change.
Recognize that car transport emissions make up the vast majority of global emissions contributing to climate change.
The most important thing this is the most important thing to prevent because global climate change destroys peoples' homes through rising tides, kills crops and cattle, and facilitates the spread of diseases as to as temperature changes and diseases that could never have survived in certain climates become particularly hardy and particularly capable of infecting people in those regions.
The only way to cut down on emissions and so cut down on climate change is to stop using as much fuels.
And as costs rise, people will necessarily have to cut down naturally because they will just physically will not be able to afford the same amount of fuel that they had previously.
Recognize also that people overuse their cars and overuse the fuel unnecessarily because they are like comfortable in the prices and comfortable in being able to afford them.
We think things like when you're stuck in traffic and allowing your car to continue to idle, taking road trips when you don't need to, taking your car rather than public transport when we live in a city, all of these are culpable for emissions that never needed to happen.
They're careless emissions that people take because they can afford to suffer for them.
So we think that if you like made sure that people could not afford that they would cut down on all of that unnecessary emitting and that would be preferable.
But it's also on a wider scale.
Higher prices stimulate the free market to come up with an alternative and so we think that through a combination of individuals being forced to cut down and a combination of corporations being forced to look for an alternative you're going to end up with a world where emissions are considerably cut down.
I think it's also important to note that the world has clearly prioritized emissions in a large sense when it comes to climate change through the signing of things like the PCA where the major things that countries are measuring globally are how much that country is emitting.
This brings us to our second point of argumentation which is about encouraging energy innovation.
People don't change when they are comfortable.
People are okay with the current prices and with with the invention of fracking the supply is unlikely to decrease to the point where it would threaten either the lives of corporations or individuals' pocket books thus the price is unlikely to increase.
Moreover because there is a clear consumer base that is tied up in oil and gas, there is no incentive to have competition or creation of alternatives because any company that in the status quo says hey I'm going to go explore a different kind of energy doesn't see themselves as as like having the possibility of making enough money to justify the risks that they are taking of their company failing ie they see the fact that people are happy with what they have now and they're worried that they won't be able to get enough investors, won't be able to get enough people to buy their product once it is developed, and so they never do it.
With higher prices the consumer can't afford and so demands an alternative.
This means that corporations work a lot harder to get the alternative quickly and efficiently and it also means they get more private investors and political support.
This both cuts emissions and creates jobs and economic impetuses.
Look it's really comfortable for large governments to be tied up in large oil organizations that take them to lunches pay them a lot of money to keep them unregulated and so the only way where we would expect to make change on this political ladder is by causing the consumer who votes these politicians into office and buys gas and oil to feel the like to feel enough of a burn that they are willing to make a change and willing to call for a change.
This only happens on our side of the house.
Proud to propose.