Although organ donation is helpful, it definitely should not be mandatory.
A clarification on what opposition is defending in this round: we think that we are still fine with systems that might change the organ donation system, so maybe instead of an opt-in system, we would be perfectly okay with having a world in which people would have to opt out of organ donation instead, or any like other kind of alternation.
However, we are not okay with governments just coming in and saying once you are dead, your organs belong to the state.
Two main areas of clash, or I guess three main areas of clash: first, on why people have rights after death.
First, we think that there is a precedent for legal right after death in that we in courts, we respect written wills that people leave behind as to how they want their like their goods and bodies taken care of and who they want their stuff to be given to.
So legally, we see that we respect people's property rights even after they've died, but also we think that there's a philosophical reason as to why people probably have a right to their body after they die.
Because if we buy that people in life have the like power and right to impact other people's lives, and if we recognize that that impact exists even after the person is dead, we think then that the legacy and like what that person leaves behind after death, still is part of that impact and is an extension of that right to impact others during their life.
Otherwise we also think that there's like a certain inconsistency here.
If people don't have any right to their bodies after death, we think it becomes infinitely more incentivized to kill someone while like to kill someone in order to then have access to the organs that might save seven or eight people after they die.
Our second area of clash has to do with religious freedom and familial solvency.
It is just true that there are a lot of people who are incredibly religious, both in the united states and across other countries, and they believe that if you touch their body after death and remove parts of their body, then they cannot go to heaven or, in the case like sometimes of certain sects of judaism, that after the messiah comes, you will not be able to join every other jew in jerusalem or other such situations.
We think that the government probably shouldn't pass policy that condemns their citizens to hell insofar as first, they have an obligation to take care of their citizens and make sure that their citizens' rights are protected.
But second, because when such when you're weighing eternal damnation of yourself against another person's life, we would say that it probably weighs about equally, and because these organs belong to you in the first place and like you have some claim to them, you probably deserve to fulfill not going to hell first.
We also think that there's a certain element of families needing closure in these situations.
A lot of the time, even if that person would not have cared where their organs went or that person no longer knows what is happening to their body after they are dead, we still think that individual family members who are also religious deserve to believe that their that the person who they loved or cared about has gone on to a better place and that condemning the family to a life in which they don't believe that there that their loved one had access to heaven is equally bad.
We think that because these are also externalities that are impacted and because these people were most affected by the person in question, then they deserve to be able to also have closure in these situations and not have to suffer in this way.
Our third independent point is about artificial organs.
We think that at this point in time, we have massively bettered the technology that would allow us to put artificially grown organs into people's body relatively soon.
On their side of the house, you stifle this innovation because you feed the gap in the market and you don't end this these needs, and these gaps are what power innovation in the first place.
Since artificial organs are obviously preferable, because you don't have to step on other people's rights in order to get people healthy, we would prefer that you didn't stifle their creation.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.