Don't subsidize women in science.
What we mean by this is that like any money that is going to creating specific programs or like putting women in science etcetera, don't do that.
Like don't subsidize individual woman.
Three main areas of clash, first on backlash.
Recognize that what happens when you do things like subsidize for women to enter a like very male dominated field is that men see them as not deserving of getting that money, getting those programs, getting that access.
We hear this rhetoric all the time: " I worked for it and you didn't. "
And we've especially heard this in arguments against things like affirmative action.
And we think this gets even worse in very male dominated fears fields because we see men being especially defensive and especially feeling like they have to prove their strength in these situations.
And so we think that it's like not enough to just stick women into programs.
Rather, you need them to actually like be incorporated by men and be hired and worked with by men.
Like you need them to be able to stay there and the only way that you create a hospitable enough environment is by not having these kinds of systems that oppose them, that like later on create harsher circumstances for them.
Recognize that like this necessarily puts women in a disadvantage, once like even more of a disadvantage when they get into these fields and get to work there.
Because men just won't respect them if they feel like they don't deserve to be there.
Like we already have to counteract sexism that says like: " you're dumber so you don't deserve to be here ".
But now they feel like they've gotten an extra academic intellectual boost so they especially don't feel like they deserve to be them and really don't respect them.
Inhospitable environments push people out and recreate the cycles that we are trying to avoid, such as cycles that say like: " oh like you like deserve to like be put through this or you shouldn't be here in the first place. "
Or situations in which there are so few women higher up that no woman wants to join onto it, because she feels like there's no one there to protect them.
But also, it creates us versus them mentality.
Men see the positions in program slots as trade-offs with their own slots and their own programs, and so it actually creates an incredibly vindictive point of view and perspective where the the end result is that you actually make it worse for women because even once they get into these programs, once they leave them men are not going to hire them and they're not going to work with them.
So our second area of clash is about how it's an incorrect way of empowering women in science.
It distracts from the real root cause and creates a false sense of solvency.
That you can't just throw money at the situation.
You need to actually inspire and teach young women from a very young age to go into science and grow and love it and work there.
Subsidies make policy makers and the general populace think that the problem is solved, but it won't be solved except now don't nothing gets done about it anymore because they've already used up that political will already poured that money on top of it.
Moreover, when the problem persists the lack of success will be blamed on women rather than like rather than like any structural issue, because they're like: " look, we like fixed the structural issue.
We give you more money.
We put you in more programs. "
And we saw this a lot from like the google memo where he was like: " oh.
All of these women put here by affirmative action don't deserve to be here and aren't as good as me. "
And this like reaffirms this idea that there's something biologically different.
But our third area of clash is about why there's a funds trade off.
Recognize that there are plenty of other issues that money should go to first regarding feminism and women's rights.
Science is mostly accessible as an option in the status quo to women who tend to be more comfortably middle class.
They had access to food and empowering communities.
So we think until you solve those root poverty causes with women, you're not going to get an inter sexual inter-sectional representation in science.
You're just going to get the same middle class women that you've had all along.
Proud to oppose.