Ban strip clubs.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is bad for societal norms.
We want to break this down across the two sexes.
First we want to talk about women because we think that strip clubs really propagate a lot of really bad stereotypes about the way that women ought present themselves and what purpose women have.
We think the problem is that even if society tries to pretend that women can do other things like they tell women that you can be more than just your body you can do things like pursue intellectual pursuits as long as things like strip clubs exist and the media reinforces their existence it is always going to be the case that there's a contradicting message sent by the general populace and sent by men.
One that says that reaffirms all of the existing norms of objectification that tells women that regardless of what else they accomplish their basic use is going to be their for their body their point is going to be attractive and we feel like the problem with that then is that it like propagates the system that we already existed that prioritizes male desires and male pleasures and male like male pursuits above anything that has to do with women.
This is literally an entire franchise created around the idea that men are going to satiate the deepest desires that women are going to satiate the deepest desires of men who come there.
We also think the problem is like it propagates incredibly problematic norms of attractiveness.
When large proportion of the population go to strip clubs and like that's one of their earlier exposures to sex and to women and like that's one of the things that even when you're a child you hear about then in the way in which those strippers look becomes part of how you think the opposite gender ought look if you are a man.
It's really difficult to be a stripper if you're above like a skinny a very skinny weight like we think of the idea they propagate is the only way in which you can be sexy or attractive is if you look in a particular manner or fit a certain image.
We also think there there's like a harm to men as well.
It narrows the way that they can see how women ought look or perform for them.
It desensitizes men to real bodies and desires the majority of women don't look like that and don't want to be sex objects but if your main exposure to like sexuality and to the way that these things work is through strip clubs that's not something that you are likely to understand.
Our second area of clash is about how it encourages other really bad behavior.
Legal strip clubs attract illegal activities and that they often become hubs of drugs, prostitution, and trafficking but it's really hard to to regulate when all of these things have a legal front attached to them ie was that quiet backroom one for personal dances or was it a back room where women were being exploited and like sex trafficking was happening.
We think that it becomes infinitely easier to expose these kinds of things and keep them actually like prevented when you ban strip clubs as a whole so that way there isn't an excuse for why that backroom exists and things like that.
Our third area of clash is about how it's fundamentally exploitative.
Recognize that the majority of strip clubs are run by men and they capitalize on women who are desperate but so that they can mistreat them ie if I am someone who cannot find a job somewhere else and recognize that even if we like to pretend that stripping can be empowering it is oftentimes the case of the people who end up at strip clubs aren't people who had their first decision to be there rather it is people who needed the money or who ended up there because they didn't have other alternatives.
What happens then is that because they are in a like in a position that is often disrespected by society they are often paid very little, there's no sexual harassment regulation because people see it as something that they deserve like these are honestly people who end up in this industry because they don't like not because they want to be there but because they get stuck there and then the industry uses them up and throws them back out.
There's very little job stability, there's very little support if you are someone with a child then that's not something that your job will ever take into account we think that insofar this is something that is only ever going to harm people it ought not exist.
Ban it.