The motion for today's debate is that surrogacy should be banned.
We would apply this to every country like we think it's a preferable world if every single country in the world decided to independently ban surrogacy.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why population growth is bad.
Three main sub-points under this, the first on the environment.
Recognize that having a child is the worst thing that someone could possibly do for the environment insofar as they they are creating a life of energy consumption and so we think that promoting surrogacy allows people who otherwise wouldn't wouldn't be able to to supplement this damage by creating more children.
Like we think as bad as it seems, we think that we need people who are infertile or people who can't conceive on their own maybe due to sexual orientation to exist given that it is like very given that we need to steve off some of the environmental impacts that come of this like we think that the fact that if we gave everyone the ability to reproduce, you'd have twice the amount of global warming as you currently have is a pretty big deal.
Second under this is about overpopulation though we think there are already too many humans and as such we shouldn't add anymore to the general environment.
We think that we think that creating policies that allow for the creation of more humans is bad insofar as it contributes to overpopulation.
At the end of the day we don't think that anyone absolutely needs to have a child that is biologically their own and we don't think that that need if it exists in any way outweighs the needs of every single currently living person to have like a suitable environment to continue existing.
But our third sub-point under this is why it's bad for society.
Recognize that we would prefer for people to opt for adoption in any situation in which they could do so given that there are thousands upon thousands of children that need a home and having another one supplements that number without actually providing anyone with a home that didn't already have it.
We think that the majority of people who can afford surrogacy tend to be upper to upper-middle class citizens and if they given us given that they would provide the best adoptive homes possible.
We think that we weigh the rights of orphan children over rich person's desire for a biological baby any day given that this is an existential question for that orphan and only a preferential question for that rich person.
Our second area of clash is about surrogacy as an exploitative field.
We think there's no way to ethically allow commercial surrogacy insofar as it comodifies the female body based on functional uterus.
We think it furthers the view that already exists of women as vehicles for childbirth which make it really difficult for us to pass meaningful policy regarding reproductive rights or regarding females' ownerships of their own body.
We also think it furthers the gap between social classes insofar as it allows a world in which rich women outsource their uterus to poor women and other minorities who necessarily cannot afford not to do this job.
Right we think that if your like comparative job choices are maybe being a doctor versus being a surrogate verses working in a field for hours in a day and being a surrogate we think that the person who had to work in a field might choose surrogacy but that the doctor never has an incentive to.
What this means is that you never create an incentive to protect human rights because it is primarily a field of the poor who do not have enough money to lobby on their own behalf.
We think as such there is never going to be enough advocacy on government side for on opposition side for good medical aftercare or rights with regards to changing your mind after you've had the baby or anything like that.
We also think that a massive problem here is that companies are always going to take the majority of the profit which means that women are never going to truly receive the value of their sacrifice when it comes to being a surrogate.
For these reasons, proud to propose.