The motion for today's debate is that you should not subsidize unlined coat online courses.
We think that it's more effective to do things like make public education free and we also just think there doesn't exist an obligation on the part of the government to provide education in this form.
Like even if there is a fundamental right to education, we think that this is provided in the form of things like university and skillful degrees that allow you to live the rest of your life.
So education is a facilitative right not as a fundamental basic human right which means that there is no requirement for the government to just provide online courses for edification.
Three main areas of clash.
First, on why online courses are ineffective.
Recognize that people who take online courses are either doing so as a college major because they belong to an online university or they're doing so just for fun.
But given that the model for this motion didn't propose linking these courses to a specific college the way that this is imagined to be occurring is just by large data flushes of online courses provided in a government database.
Given so they're not going to be linked to any kind of college it's not going to provide anyone with a usable skill or usable major, it's just going to be like hey I'm curious about this thing and maybe you can go look at it.
But we don't think that the government should subsidize people's enjoyment when they are still when there are still really necessary to life things that need subsidized.
Like as long as we have people going without health care or food or things that are much more fundamental than education insofar that is a lot harder for me to live my life when I have more food than it is when I have no education, then we don't think that this is something that needs to be paid attention to right now.
Like there is a hierarchy of what the government should be spending money on and the things that individuals need most should always be at the top of that list.
We also just think that hirers are really unlikely to see any online courses legitimate like this given that in order to get a job that is of higher level you often have to present some kind of degree which a list of online courses does not do without a qualified and like certified body behind them to validate that it is a real degree.
So we don't think that there's actually skill base that is being acquired here in any kind of marketable fashion.
So you're literally just throwing information out on to the interwebs which might be fine but like at the point that MIT provides tons of courses online for free and other colleges as well, we just don't understand what the government can add significantly.
We think that the real problem here is that we need to get people into real schools and get them real degrees that allow them to exist in a world where the majority of future jobs are going to be much more skill based in higher level skills than currently blue collar work or restauranting etcetera.
Our secondary of clash is just on why there are better expenditures.
In the end, it is true that people probably need an education in order to succeed in the world that is coming.
A world that is massively dominated by technology and so needs more people to manage that while them technology manages menial labor.
So insofar as that's true, we think it is just more effective for the government to fund public schools and social services because all of these are just more basic rights that are related to us being able to access the rest of our lives.
Our third area of clash is about promoting these fake expert complexes.
Because whenever you do things like read a book on a particular subject, or take an online course, it makes you feel qualified in the subject when in reality you aren't.
Like the fact that I read one physics book or am a psychology major doesn't make me qualified to do physics or to treat individuals.
So when we think that this actually can be really, really dangerous because if someone takes an online course in electricity, they don't actually understand it, they can do something in their own home then that can have really bad impacts.
This is also true of more social problems, like if I take one class on politics it doesn't suddenly make me qualified to decide policy into the long term.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.