The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize sex selection.
What we mean by this is that we would allow parents to use techniques such as microsorting and genetic testing to predetermine whether the fetuses that they're going to be implanting, either into the body or raising from a test tube, are going to be of a specific gender, and then based on those results, we would allow parents to throw away or not or choose not to use a fetus that is of a specific, to them personally, undesirable gender.
For the purpose of this debate, we're going to be talking about men versus women given that it is very difficult to distinguish at the beginning of a baby's birth whether or not they're going to end up being non-binary or trans or anything like that.
Two main areas of clash, first on the rights of parents.
We think that generally people have a right to choose the characteristics of the child that they're going to raise.
They're going to give up so much of their life, money, energy and time, like bringing this child into the world and making sure that they are growing up in a healthy like hopefully happy, hopefully well up provided for home, and as such, we think you you should probably be able to select what where that money and energy and time is going to go.
We think that forms of this are already allowed in the status quo.
We can choose all of our child's influences: what they watch, what they're going to wear, who they're friends with who their teachers oftentimes like where they live, all of these things, and we're just unclear on why there's a specific higher standing for changing your child's genetics with respect to gender.
We actually think it's the burden on opp in this round to show to us why gender and genetics are so much more important than things like where you go to school and like what the main influences in your life are going to be.
In fact, we think that there's actually no difference at all, given that there have been confirmed links between genetic data and the kind of environment that we grow up in, ie, the environment that we have might stimulate our DNA to methylate or phosphorylate, which then change the expression of certain genes.
So, at the point that we literally already allow parents to essentially change and direct their children's genes, we don't know why this is so much more different, and we think that it's naturally stemming from the rest of their rights.
We also think that a child is very much a personal investment on the part of the parents.
Any investment that someone makes is one that you hope to be profitable and one that you need to include your preference, right?
Like, I'm not going to invest my money in a bank or a corporation that I do not believe in or that I think is going to fail.
And so we think that children are very similar in that you don't want to invest all of that energy and all of that time and all of that pain in a child that like maybe you didn't necessarily want or a has certain characteristics that are going to keep it from being able to rise higher in the world.
Like maybe you just really think that women are going to do better than men or vice versa.
Our second area of clash is about mitigating negative outcomes.
Recognize that anyone who cares so passionately about the gender of their child in a world where sex selection is illegal is likely to attempt an abortion either way, right?
Like at the point that they're willing to threaten to do this, to look for means to do this, if they were going to do it on our side of the house, they're likely to still find a way to do so on the opposition side of the house, and we think that this oftentimes takes much more pernicious ways.
Like, recognize that when china instituted the one-child policy, you had a lot of female babies just getting left in the woods after they were born because their parents didn't want them, and they wanted to be able to have another child afterwards.
But, like, recognize that even if we managed to force people to keep these children, it is very likely that they're going to mistreat the child.
Given that they didn't want it in the first place, they don't feel an obligation to take care of it.
We think that you're actually doing a favor to any child who's coming out of these circumstances by making sure that these people are not the ones who are going to be raising it in the long term.
We also think that in more moderate situations, there isn't incentive to misuse it because there's less of a conception that one gender is preferable to the other.
Like, recognize that there are perfectly good reasons that maybe you don't want to have a child of a certain gender.
Some diseases that are really specific to men or women can be cut out almost entirely in this way, and parents who are carriers don't have to worry if they're able to sex select.
And maybe you want another kid but you already have multiple boys or multiple girls.
We think it's fair for you to then say, " I'm done with this group.
I want a different kind. "
For these reasons, proud to propose.