The motion for today's debate is that we should tax plastic bags.
Two main areas of clash: the first on incentives.
Under this, two independent arguments first one business incentives.
Because recognize that the massive way in which plastic bags are propagated throughout society and used like realistically produced in the first place is because grocery stores, small businesses, any like sales sector job or market needs them and like uses them in order to let people take goods out of their stores.
And the reason that they like don't always offer paper or more renewable alternatives is because it's really cheap to mass produce plastic bags and buy them from like corporations.
We think the only way in which you force them to see this as not the most like the most efficacious matter or the most cheap matter is if you stop making it cheap, which is exactly what a trash like a plastic bag tax does.
It makes it so that alternatives become more accessible and more attractive because now it's going to be cheaper for you to provide paper alternatives with like the option to buy your own renewable plastic like bags.
We also think that this is great right off the bat, because it means that you change the system at the root of the problem and don't have to force individuals to be the changing force.
Like recognize that it's really difficult to get individual people to act in a cohesive manner, and so we think when business do that businesses do it for us and don't provide individuals with another choice that's really good.
But even if you don't think that, we can that we get change on the individual level as well.
Like recognize if you have to pay for your bags your infinitely more likely to bring your own or by permanent ones.
This is true even if the amount of money that the plastic bags cost is really small because people automatically internalize it as something that is not worth it or something that previously didn't exist in thus is like not worth paying for.
Like an extra expenditure.
And so we think that you actually get better like small stick efficacy on our side of the house insofar as individual people are more incentivized to bring their own bags so they don't have to pay the ten cent fee for every single plastic bag they might take and use.
And I mean that's like really good insofar as like collective groups of individuals make up the rest of our society.
If we can get enough individuals to change their behavior, and we think that given that like the vast majority of people aren't those who are at the top of society, that they're oftentimes those who are like upper to like lower to completely lower class, and so we like to think that it's good to that and we think of these people are like the most likely to actually enact change on a large like large scale.
Our second area of clash is about facilitating long term change.
Like recognize that plastic bags are uniquely really bad.
Their non biodegradable so they tend to sit in landfills for years and years and years while they leak chemicals into the surrounding land, and prevent any kind of ecosystem from developing there.
They also get into the ocean and forests which then chokes and suffocates the animals that have gotten used to living there and we think that's really bad.
Like in a lot of ad campaigns that show you that the poor seals that are getting choked by plastic bags and plastic coke holders.
And we think it's really important to preserve those groups as well given the land on which they live is land that they've occupied for infinitely longer than we've occupied the land we're in.
We also think that like what this means is that you need to phase them out of use, and you can only do that by changing the overall incentive structure that underlies it.
As long as plastic bags are cheaper corporations and individuals will not change, because it is the most pragmatic answer for them.
But the second those plastic bags cost more people no longer justify the cost and they will turn to alternatives.
We prefer a world in which everybody just brings their own god damn like long term bags with them and that's what like and we think you only get that on our side of the house.
For these reasons, proud to propose.