The motion for today's debate is that we should protect the right to internet access.
What we mean by this is the government ought not be able to infringe on people's internet access so you can't have situations such as north korea where certain websites are banned, or like the people who can own computers are regulated we think that every single person has a right to free internet access unregulated by the government.
Two main areas of clash, the first on protecting freedom of speech.
We we think that both sides are going to accept that freedom of speech is a tenant of democracy insofar as the only way that I can impact my environment and change my situation is if I am able to communicate what I want changed which can only be done through free speech.
But in a modern world, internet is the main way in which people communicate about the world and exercise their free speech.
Because snail mail is dying off, newspapers have a small population that actually reads them and are also thus dying off, so the only way in or in which you can get your opinion out to a large group of people relatively quickly is through the internet.
So if you're not allowing people access to the internet, you're essentially duct taping the mouths of thousands because you're eliminating the ways that they can communicate.
Recognize that it becomes a lot easier to regulate someone when they don't have internet access because you have a smaller reachable audience.
So once you take people offline, it is much easier to do things like regulate them further.
Preventing them from speaking in public, through through because they can't actually disclose their situation to a larger population that can show that they care about them.
So this is often how we see dictatorships deal with political dissidents.
They isolate them from the rest of the world and then no one no one is able to care about where they are or know their whereabouts and they can't communicate that they are in trouble, the government gets rid of them or imprisons them or any other number of things.
So we think that it is fundamental to a democracy to protect freedom of speech which can only be done through protecting the internet.
But our secondary of clash has to do with why freedom of information is also necessary to a democracy.
Recognize that the equivalent of modern internet a hundred fifty years ago would have been things like newspapers.
And we think that you wouldn't be able to ban that because who cares if you can say words if no one can hear them?
It's not just about freedom of speech being protected, it's also about protecting the avenues in which people hear other people speech.
Otherwise it would be okay to lock up political dissidents in a room because as long as they can yell at the walls that would be considered free speech.
But because it is not considered free speech, it shows a recognition on the part of governmental bodies and on the part of other individuals that your words only matter and are only considered protected if the government is not regulating who can hear them.
So we think that it is important in order to facilitate free speech that people also have freedom of information through the internet.
More than this though, we think that the information to make informed political decisions can only be fully found when you're using something that has that compiles the informations of thousands of thousands of sources.
Because in the end, television networks are always going to be biased.
Fox news is always going to tell me that I should vote republican, and the alternatives can be found that will always tell me to vote democrat.
But the only way that you can make your own opinion is by being able to compile all of these different opinions and decide which one you believe the most.
This kind of research in the modern day can only be done through the use of something like the internet.
For a democracy to function fully you need people to be able to make these kind of free and educated decisions and if you regulate their ability to access the internet, you no longer have this you no longer have a world in which they can do so.
We also think that the freedom of information through the internet allows very like societal benefit besides that though.
So like situations in which people grow in very conservative areas but they need to know about things like birth control in order to keep themselves from getting pregnant.
We think the internet provides people with fundamental information that lets them better their lives individually and if we believe in the pursuit of happiness, we believe in letting them have access to that.
For these reasons, proud to propose.