We should not abolish the olympics.
Three main areas of clash, the first on promoting political relaxation and healthy nationalism.
The olympics are one of the few events for which individual countries are willing to lay aside differences and come together in an act of mutual celebration.
For some, like israel and many muslim countries, it's the only time that they come together and celebrate in the same room.
This is both good for the citizens of that country and makes political officials more amicable because they're driven by this air of collaboration, nationalism and patriotism, and so they are much more willing to actually negotiate with each other during this time.
It's also a time when people can feel unproblematic nationalism.
For an example, oftentimes citizens of germany report that they feel difficultes feeling proud or patriotic because of atrocities caused by their country in the past.
So one of the few times in which they can feel proud of their countries is during the olympics, because it's not associated with passed past actions or past harms and rather they can just enjoy themselves.
And we think this is actually very important because being able to see your country in a positive context means there's going to be more citizens that actually stay rather than leaving, you're going to have more productivity and, on net, you're going to be like it's just better for like country efficiency.
Our second area of clash is about how it gives developing countries a voice.
So often, non-western countries get viewed through a stereotyping and problematic western lens, for example, when the olympics were held in brazil.
Before the olympics, in the united states, brazil was just seen as this vacation spot with very beautiful women that have very big butts.
What the olympics did is gave the chance to showcase the rich history and look at the challenges that that country's facing rather than just being the stereotype that other countries label it as.
So in the case of brazil, they were able to provide a show about the history and the icons that came from their country as well as an in-depth look at the way that global warming affects their country, something that they very rarely get to showcase elsewhere, and a unique place in which they were able to garner empathy and appreciation.
We think this is, first, empowering for the country themselves.
It means that more brazilians can feel proud of being brazilian and counteract harmful narratives from other countries when they see them later.
But we also think it's good on a global scale insofar as it is probably bad for the united states to only see brazil as its beaches and beautiful women, and we want them to be able to see it as a full entity and potential partner.
Our third area of clash has to do with why it's good for developing countries.
The issue with drew's argument about resources is that it assumes that the money would otherwise be spent on positive infrastructure.
The issue with this is that this is very rarely true.
Like brazil could have been fixing their their roads and other kind of places for years before the olympics, and instead these funds were used here, but he doesn't give evidence as to why they would have been used for positive infrastructure instead.
So at that point, we think the existence of some infrastructure is better than none, and also so we think it's important to note that things like the olympics create massive amounts of jobs and an economic impetus.
We also think the olympics often tend to be a liberalizing force.
Not only does it bring issues to light, such as numerous articles published about sochi, about brazil, that basically stated, " look at their human rights violations.
Look at how bad this is, " but it also forces change.
Recognize that all of these developing countries host the olympics because they're hoping for long-term partnerships and investment.
And if that investment comes with the string attached that you have to treat your workers well and pass good reform, then the countries are often more than eager to oblige, as we saw with brazil, when they then continued to pass multiple reforms as to worker abuse.
So we think that, on net, it is good for these countries.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.