We shouldn't subsidize transportation network companies.
Three main arguments, first on why we don't need to.
First, recognize that TNCs are already incredibly affordable.
They respond to the market in such a way that prices go down during certain hours of the day or during moments of high driver volume.
This means that people are capable of manipulating or adjusting to the system to make it personally cheaper.
Companies also compete with each other, such as uber and lyft and like all go taxi, all these companies that exist, which means that you are continually driving the prices of their services downward as well.
Government government might say that this isn't cheap enough and that we have to make sure that accessibility exists for everyone, but it is unclear why people are entitled to TNCs, given that things like public transportation exist.
Sure, it might be less comfortable.
You're not going to have your own car with a driver who gets you there from point a to point b with limited if any stops, but it can be used without government subsidization that comes at the cost of other good causes.
Subsidization is always a choice between which services is more important to the general public.
There are plenty of needs besides TNCs that should probably be addressed first and would use money more efficiently, doing things like addressing food insecurity, funding public transport that can service more people for the same cost as individual cars on our TNC service, shelters, like all of these things that fulfill both more base needs of the individual and use money more effectively so that every dollar brings more good.
This brings us to our second independent point which is about competition between TNCs and public transportation.
Subsidization is always a tradeoff.
Paying for one thing means that you can't pay for another.
Thus, we have to make sure that we're using government money efficiently.
Also, because government money is derived from taxation of the public, we have to make sure that it is also used to serve the public.
TNCs actively compete with public transportation.
Public transport and widening the network will always be better because most of the infrastructure already exist, it doesn't contribute to environmental damage or clog the roads the same way, and a lot of TNCs that fill in the gap encourage and that a lack of TNCs to fill in these caps encourage more spending on public transport.
We think that you should subsidize public transport more if you want to if you want to subsidize any kind of transport, but we think that it's also better to subsidize nothing at all given the active detriments of TNCs independently of increasing transportation spending elsewhere.
What I mean by this is that we think that there are inherent factors about TNCs that mean they will always compete for funding with other public transportation, and we think that public transportation, such as buses and trains, is always a better idea because it is cheaper, affects the environment less poorly, and just like generally serves more people than TNCs can.
But even if you don't buy any of that, we just don't think that any subsidization of TNCs is good because of the first independent point.
Our third argument is about worker abuse and problems.
We think that in the end, these are just companies with endemic issues, and we shouldn't encourage their growth.
We saw, for example, that uber had high levels of sexual harassment, because drivers would harass their passengers, and there wasn't really a way to get recourse, and you have these really dangerous situations in which people are one and one with an assaulter and can't get out of the car.
You also, on the opposite end of this, have really low wages and bad conditions.
There've been multiple reports of these companies not paying their drivers enough, and this will happen even with subsidization, since these are private companies that will just swallow the extra profits and have no mandate to pass these benefits on to their employees.
A lot of these companies also force drivers to pay for the gas in the car, which often ends up being net unprofitable or not worth it as a profession because of how high those costs are compared to what they get paid.
Proud to oppose.