We should limit birth control.
What we mean by this is that we're not actually limiting something like condoms.
I think we're talking entirely about hormonal birth control, IE, the pill, the nuvaring, the shot, depo-provera, so on so forth.
And by limit, we would mean that anyone under the age of eighteen would require a doctor visit before they would be prescribed the pill or the ring or any other hormonal birth control that they prefer.
So, in the status quo, there are oftentimes online doctors or like telephone calls or over-the-counter versions of the pill, or like parents can pick them up for their children, we don't want any of that.
We want there to be like a distinct " I am under eighteen years old.
I want to use this thing, " but we think that condoms would still be available easily over-the-counter.
We're not changing that.
Three main areas of clash: first, on my hormones are dangerous to young bodies.
Recognize that the side effects that we often don't talk to are talk about are actually very, very large, such as a lot of women who take the pill suffer from depression as a direct result of it.
And this is something that often goes under-researched because the scientific industry is incredibly sexist, but we do like these things do happen and can be very bad.
This is in addition to occasionally hormonal treatments can do things like cause cancers or different kinds of tumors, and we think the problem in the status quo is that we have this lackadaisy attitude where we pretend that these are fake problems that don't really affect many people, without recognizing that these are very real risks that individuals should have the ability to consult consent to first.
We think this is especially bad for younger children.
Because if I'm a thirty-year-old woman who has contextualized the rest of my life, and like has recognized that that's a tradeoff I am willing to make, like I really just want the ease of doing of just having the pill once a day or the ease of like sliding in the nuvaring once a month, then we think that that's a tradeoff that you, as an adult, can make.
But not only can the side effects be a lot worse for younger bodies because you are someone who is still developing, it's also just something you can't contextualize because you're not someone who has been exposed to very much depression.
You're not someone who has seen these kinds of impacts on other people or read as much about them by nature of the fact that you are younger.
We think that these are long-term impacts for birth birth control that is not particularly necessary given the existence of condoms and spermicide that are available over-the-counter and work perfectly well.
Our second area of clash is about promoting informed consent, because we think there's a problem in the status quo where individuals pretend that birth control isn't a big deal, and for a lot of people it isn't.
But we think it's important to recognize the potential for damage that it can do and make sure that individuals are informed of that.
And we think the easiest way to make sure that they are informed is making sure that they have to do something like talk to a professional about the thing they're about to put into their bodies before they actually start doing it on the daily.
In the status quo, people get the majority of their information off the internet or from their parents when it comes to this kind of birth control stuff.
And maybe that's okay, because we recognize that a lot of information is available on the internet, but we also think that children and young like younger people are uniquely bad at being thorough when it comes to these subjects.
So sitting down and talking to a professional about the way this might interact with your body, or your history, or if you're someone who's like prone to anxiety and depression, whether or not this is still something you ought do, or having knowledge of what an ectopic pregnancy might look like, all of these things are things you're less likely to find online that a doctor will mention you, and we think that promoting that education is very important.
Our third area of clash is about promoting proper use because we think that oftentimes personalized medicine is best, even if the general one can be used either like will function, IE, sure, you can give me a pill for birth control and it'll work, regardless of my weight, the majority of the time, but it's always going to be more effective if it is something that is personalized to my weight, to my habits, to my, like, sleep schedules, so on so forth.
And we think that that's something that a doctor can do for you, like, go over your specific situation and choose a type.
Proud to propose.