Don't abolish needle exchange programs.
First I want to address sam's argument about this being a misuse of resources.
We just don't think this is the case.
The reason that government taxes at all is in order to support programs and policies that help the citizens they serve and kind of come in and support situations in which maybe capitalism or the private sector doesn't solve or doesn't provide for the needs of citizens.
Addiction is not something people can just choose not to propagate once it has happened.
It is not their fault that they continue because they are chemically bonded to the substance that it hurts not to.
So when sam says look, these people put themselves in the situation so why should we help them, he's misunderstanding the chemical function of addiction.
But moreover we just don't think this matters first because the overflow harvest of the rest of society justify public spending on it.
But also just because someone put themselves in the situation doesn't mean they aren't deserving of help.
One could argue that for every single person on welfare they could probably have made a string of different decisions within their lives that would have kept them from being in that situation.
We don't do that because we know that when people are in shitty situations it doesn't help to blame them for it, rather we focus on getting them out of it so that in the future they don't have to do things like rely on government assistance.
Two main arguments, first on preventing the spread of blood borne illnesses.
Sam keeps talking about how there isn't any trickle down from needle exchange programs.
Literally this is just wrong.
Like some of the most important impacts are to non-drug users.
It protects innocent people who never took drugs in the first place since in the status quo old needles often get left in public areas, under bridges, along sidewalks.
These are places where children run and play and where adults also spend a lot of their time.
We need to minimize the risk of the people who interact with these areas getting harmed.
It is good enough to win the round already because at the end of the day the number of drug users is going to stay the same either way, it it's just a question of how safely they dispose of those needles.
Sam worries about ghettoisation.
That's already true right?
Like poor neighborhoods already have the highest rate of drug addicts, so it would make sense of these areas would have needle exchange programs anyway just because you often have the highest volume of people who would use them.
But this doesn't raise the rates of drug use at all right?
Like because the drug users are just coming in to exchange their needles.
Needle exchange program aren't causing drug users, it just means that these areas in particular will now have less blood borne illnesses and will have less dirty needles fling around.
Our second argument is about helping addicts.
First I think that sam's argument about how this makes drug use cheap is just unfair right?
Like this isn't the way that people make their weighing calculus.
They don't say drugs are affordable therefore I'm going to get addicted, rather they get addicted and then they do everything they can to continue that addiction, even if it means that when they cannot have access to clean needles reusing the ones they already have or leaving those dirty needles out.
So we think that as long as there are still a stigma against drugs more broadly and education as to why you shouldn't do drugs, you're not actually going to be increasing the number of people doing drugs on our side of the house.
Moreover addicts don't stop doing drugs because of a lack of clean needles, they just use dirty ones, which is how this becomes a problem in the first place.
Like they're not going to be buying needles on either side of the house.
It also just means that on our side of the house we get time to interface with addicts that doesn't occur in the status quo since a lot of them end up homeless and avoid social institutions.
So we think it's positive that you can cover your needle exchange program and buildings in advertisements for rehab or provide addicts with a list of options every time they come.
You could even build exchange programs near a rehab facility.
Like all of this provides you with more control over our environment and over the status quo than what's happening right now.
Proud to oppose.