The motion for today's debate is that we should protect whistleblowers.
The model for this is essentially we would make it not allowed for a government to subpoena either a journal or magazine to release the name of a source if they are given information and it prevents you from subpoenaing a like whistleblower into court.
Three main areas of clash.
First on preventing harmful whistleblowing because even when whistleblowing is necessary, it still includes a lot of incredibly sensitive information.
There are safe versus unsafe ways to whistleblow and we think that one of the ways in which you are going to be more safe is one in which you're actually releasing your information to a reputable source such as the new york times or like some kind of good magazine or journal, in which case it will hopefully comb the files for information and redact any names of foreign operatives or any like specific ongoing missions versus is the worst way in which you either like data dump this on wikileaks or something like the dark-web like at best you're giving it to huffpost.
You're basically creating a world in which whatever news source to using is much more likely to remain anonymous but is also much more likely to use your information in an unsafe way and provide it for people who would use it in bad ways.
And recognize that whistleblowers are much more likely to use the good method if the law protects them because then they won't be afraid of say the new york times journalist releasing the source and releasing their names to the to the government.
Because if the law forces journalists to give up whistleblowers those whistle blowers still want to provide the information somewhere right like they still feel passionate about informing the public.
They just choose a method that is much more dangerous and you end up in situations such as soon after the edward snowden problem where the edward snowden whistleblowing incident where actual operatives got killed afterwards because of the names that he dropped and like allowed foreign officials to get a hold of.
Our second area of clash is about why it whistleblowing is a necessary requirement as a check on the government because there are lots of government departments that aren't particularly subject to public oversight.
Groups like the NSA or the CIA can get away with being incredibly rights violative without anyone in the public knowing and we think we have a really good example of this having already happened in the situation with edward snowden where was revealed to us that the NSA was currently monitoring everyone's phone calls an illegal manner and there was no way the public could get a hold of this because this was all considered secure information but just because something is secure information doesn't make it less of a violation.
We need people to be willing to inform the public when things get especially bad and we think that they're going to be much more likely to inform the public if they're being protected by the government and they don't have to worry about getting in trouble or losing their jobs or having to move to russia as a result of what they did.
So we also just think that a lot of the time it is in the incentive of the government to crackdown especially hard on people like this and so as such because they are going up there are likely to be targeted in an unequal and unfair manner, we think they especially deserve protection to prevent that kind of abuse from happening.
Our third area of clash is why it's good for public government accountability because when the government isn't afraid of whistleblowing, they're much more likely to take more unethical unethical actions because they know that they're getting away with it and they have a selfish incentive in which they want to either be able to make the most money or gather the most information or be as secure in themselves as possible and so they're much more likely to actually act in ways such as taping all of our conversations or placing cameras into places we don't want them to place them.
If the government is however afraid of a whistleblower coming out, they're much less likely to do that because the cost of being caught and the public opinion that will be affected is much more important to them than the concept of having this people's data or doing that illegal thing.
For these reasons, proud to propose.