The motion for today's debate is that we should end athletic scholarships.
Basically what we mean is that that you no longer have universities offering students reduced fees for their education, based on their participation or skill in sports.
Rather, we think it would be acceptable to pay people who choose to participate in athletics once in college, given that it is exactly the same as any other job.
So, two main areas of clash: the first on the purpose of college.
We think it's important to note that college is not about the here and now but rather is about the future that you are planning.
What this means is that it can never it should never be about what you accomplish within the university but rather what the university prepares you to do in your future, and whether it will create a long term career.
The truth of the matter is that very few people can make a successful career out of being an athlete but that more than this, their success and potential at being an athlete ought not define whether they get to go to college or whether they get to stay in college.
We think that it is fundamental to the purpose of higher education that the priority be your education and not the athletics that you have to do in order to keep your ability to stay there.
More than this, we think that athletic scholarships force students to compromise their future in order to ensure that they can stay in that university.
They have to choose the short term, choose to go to that practice instead of do their homework, and choose to put hours in instead of studying for that test in order to somehow try and stay in that institution.
This is antithetical to what college is about given that it is it is supposed to be about learning to prioritize your education and preparing you for your future.
We think that all the all that these scholarships are is a way for the old men running the institution to benefit off of the disadvantage of impoverished students.
They take advantage of the fact that these people have no other way to get into college in the first place in order to and by doing so force them into playing sports and getting more money for the school through it.
We think that it is fundamentally unjust that they benefit off of the poor circumstances that students and up in outside of their control.
Our second main area of clash has to do with how it traps people.
We think that a lot of the time these kinds of scholarship target poor populations by saying that " look, you thought that higher education would not be accessible to you because you do not have enough money, here we will allow you to do so. "
They act as though it is a gift bequeathed upon these groups and make them feel like this is how you break through.
What happens then is that hundreds of of children train for these kinds of scholarships and only a few get in.
Rather than focusing on academics and focusing on getting a merit scholarship, they assume that based on their background this is unlikely to be achievable and focus on athletics because this is the message that is sent to them over and over and over again.
We get hundreds of success stories even though very few actually exist about that poor kid who then went to play football in college and got to have an education.
The truth of the matter is that athletic scholarships create incredibly difficult situations for students to actually learn.
You spend hours training and you have to compromise your physical health and safety in order to maintain your scholarship.
We think that first, this is physically very unhealthy.
A lot of college students who played who have to be heavily involved in sports to their to due to their scholarships often end up injured and often end up in the long term not with long term like bone injuries and like leg injuries.
But more than this and more importantly, we think this is often bad for your grades.
It makes their future uncertain and forces them in a situation where they are like depending on their physical health in order to keep them in college and in education.
The other problem with this is that oftentimes students can lose the scholarships due to circumstances outside of their control, so if someone gets an injury and suddenly can't play anymore, because you were at that university on an athletic scholarship you are oftentimes kicked out even though you couldn't actually control having an injury.
For these reasons proud to propose.