The motion for today's debate is that the US should close guantanamo bay.
What we mean by this is that the US would immediately defund, demolish, move the prisoners currently located there to another facility, and thus end the functioning of the prison camp called guantanamo bay, located overseas.
Two main areas of clash: first on how it is contrary to US ideologies and international law.
Let's talk about the geneva convention, and specifically the ways in which it violates it.
So currently the way that the US qualifies guantanamo is that they say that the people there are enemy combatants.
The problem with this is that underneath the geneva convention, which the US agreed to, there is no such delineation.
For the geneva convention all people are who are taken by other countries must have a must have a status as either a prison of prisoner of war and other state's civilian, or a medical professional who has been taken from another state.
And thus there is a convention that is associated with each one.
So convention number one for the way that you treat prisoners of war and so on so forth.
So, when the US delineates a group of people as enemy combatants, they're breaking out of this bubble and they're essentially saying: " there is no convention and we can treat him them the however the way however the hell we want. "
But just because the united states government says that something exists, doesn't make it true.
We think that first there's like an ethical issue in terms of following laws that you expect other countries to follow and specifically treating prisoners ethically, but also if the united states is going to get grouchy when others violate laws, it's probably going it probably should be presenting a better example itself, which isn't doing in the status quo.
Moreover, abusive treatment of prisoners is an anti american and anti democratic action.
The fifth amendment protects criminal rights, including protecting them from cruel and unusual punishment.
This applies to anyone whether they're a citizen or not.
This, for instance, is why even if you're taking someone who's an illegal immigrant you still can't beat them up in their jail cell.
You have to deport them, but like while they're here you still treat them like a person.
So, it's unclear why the united states gets to break the rules that apply to any other person just because they aren't directly on the land of the united states.
Like they're still being treated by united states personnel, they're still like property essentially of the united states government.
At the point that that is occurring, we don't think that there is an ethical delineation, or a legal one.
So now let's talk a little bit about these ethics.
Because we think that the reason that we have these laws in the first place is because we've defined systems of morality that say this is the way that we should be treating people.
And as such we think that people do deserve a trial by jury in the ability to contest evidence.
They shouldn't be abused in their jail cells.
Not only, and we think that this is a right that is never extended to those who end up at guantanamo bay.
They don't have a way to say that this evidence is false or argue for their cause, because they're never put forward like a jury of their peers, and the government hasn't answered to anyone about their treatment of them.
This is unethical and devalues a human life.
Our second area of clash has to do with the way that guantanamo bay is ineffective and expensive.
Recognize first that it's been statistically and scientifically proven that torture is not effective and doesn't actually get you any useful information.
We think the bottom line, at the end of the day, is that you could be putting these prisoners into any other prison camp.
It's not the case with the way that obama said, that: " oh, these are people that are so especially dangerous that any other holding cell is something they can break free of. "
We think that even if you stopped the abusive tactics of guantanamo and like built a similar facility that was also oversees, the just was a regular jail, they would still be perfectly fine within those facilities.
Like these people don't have superpowers.
We also think that in the end practices like guantanamo alienate our allies who find us unethical.
This actually stifles the united states, especially in terms of finding information outlets, because foreign intelligence is less likely to cooperate when they feel like the united states has been behaving unethically.
Combine this with the fact that it's a massive money pit on our tax dollars, we just think that it's not worth it.
For these reasons abolish guantanamo bay.