Don't abolish the two party system.
Two main arguments: first, on preventing a split of the votes.
With a two party system individuals choose the party that meets their preferences on aggregate.
This vastly prevents people having to choose between their personal interests when choosing a party because aside from a weird in between demographic that might be both religious and socially liberal or like economically liberal, there's very few situations in which people don't fit into the general guidelines outlined by republican versus democrat.
With many parties you'll often have people who generally agree politically choosing different parties because they're prioritizing specifically different interests within that.
So two people might all agree on being economically and socially liberal and simultaneously they might believe in like religious freedom but these kinds of interest now all have to be prioritized in different ways because they can choose between parties that specifically are interested in that one thing.
Believing in protecting the environment marginally more than believing in prioritizing putting money into welfare in the current system just means you vote democrat either way.
But in james' world it means that these two people would vote for two different parties on the basis of priorities even when the beliefs of both are very similar.
This is bad because it means that you don't get a good idea of where the overall soup social beliefs of society lie because you're just getting votes from these candidates who prioritize specific issues.
It's also bad because it means that if one party can cross that divide and get everyone behind it who would usually vote for these marginally different candidates, they can steamroll everyone else just because the rest aren't being cohesive enough.
So if you have a generically republican candidate who might be just like more like cover more ground than a bunch of other candidates that are marginally different but all of the like stereotypically democratic ideas are spread across many many different candidates, then even though there might be on net more democratically leaning individuals, the republican is still going to win just because he was able to campaign enough to get people to come across that divide.
This still occurs even with james specific iteration of the model because just about who ranks highest and if you can get enough people to rank one as the highest.
He's worried about minority viewpoints.
Like we just don't think that minority viewpoints get protected well on either side of the house because it's pretty much impossible for a minority group to get one of their candidates through without a critical mass of support.
So on james side their candidates aren't going to come through either way because you'd still need enough people to rank them at the top in order to even get them selected.
At least on our side of the house there's some chance that within the party you're likely to have minority people who are serving in like different positions even if they're not the people who are running for like president or running for the main seat in congress.
Like you'll still have them at lower levels of the democratic party.
Our second argument is about preventing an increase in gridlock.
We're talking about the country that already struggles with getting things through with two parties.
It's going to be infinitely more with infinitely worse when you add more parties.
Like you're literally just not going to be able to get policies through which we think is infinitely worse than any kind of impact that james might have to like general democracy just because it means that you're not going to be able to accomplish what democracy is actually meant to do which is impact based actually giving people policies that would help them in their daily lives.
Like at the end of the day, people rely on their government to do governance.
So if we show you that having a modestly more democratic system interferes with that, we still win the round.
Proud to oppose.