I think it's important first to clarify in which situations no-knock warrants are often used, because these aren't just petty criminals that are that you can obtain this kind of warrant for.
The barrier for no-knock warrants is pretty high.
It requires more evidence of wrongdoing, and that wrongdoing has to be more intense.
So it's incredibly unlikely that you're going to get a no-knock warrant for a petty criminal or for a petty drug dealer, rather this is oftentimes for human trafficking, large violent offenders, or very large drug dealers that are also gang-related.
So, recognizing that this happens in extreme cases and not in all cases and recognizing that if this is something that is going to be abused, we can put in place more regulations to prevent that abuse.
Two main areas of clash.
First we tell you that there's a principle here that says, basically, that when you violate the law, you lose your rights to privacy and all these rights that drew lists.
Because essentially what drew says is that because everyone has a right to privacy, you have a right to get warned before people come into your house.
We agree this is generally true, but because the contract we hold with the state requires protections only be extended when you are abiding by laws, when you break laws you create a world in which those laws wouldn't exist, which means your protections don't either.
This means that aside from laws requiring fair trial in criminal proceedings, the government doesn't actually owe criminals any special protections that it would owe their normal citizens.
We do this because it incentivizes people to follow the laws and because it creates an on net safer society.
So at the point that hardcore criminals don't don't no longer have their right to privacy contractually, and probably don't deserve it because of the lack of safety that they create, we don't think that there's any principle reason as to why no-knock warrants ought not be allowed.
We also think that at the point that it's been shown that it is constitutional, we're unclear what spirit of the law drew was talking about.
Our second area of clash has to do with effectiveness.
Sure, in a beautiful, perfect world in which a warning doesn't have any other impacts besides clearing up the situation for everyone, it would be really great to not have no-knock warrants.
But that's just not the way it works.
Knocking provides usually minutes of time in which people can perform a few actions.
They can hide evidence, they can grab weapons, they can run away.
We think that we can't just allow this to happen.
So when you have a target that has been labeled as a flight risk, maybe they've run away from the cops before, maybe they've disappeared overseas multiple times, you can't just give them extra time in which they can continue to do the same thing that they've been doing over and over and over again.
This is both inefficient for police departments because there is a set number of resources that police can use, but it's also dangerous when you allow repeated criminal offenders to get away when this can be so easily solved by catching them off guard.
We also think that in a lot of like in a lot of higher level crimes, this extra time means everything, being able to lock like when you're a human trafficker, being able to go downstairs and threaten the people who are there into submission or being able to lock that extra door.
We think that this this extra time cannot be discounted and thus, we ought be able to have a world in which when you recognize a certain target as as being at high risk for this, you don't let them get away with it.
More than this, we think that hardline stances discourage and deter potential future infractions.
So this is so we think that actually the existence of no-knock warrants, in the first place, makes it less likely that people are going to commit crimes of such high level, because they're afraid of the potential punishment and the potential no-knock warrants.
So we prefer a world in which criminals are more aware of their potential punishments and crimes and in which they are less likely to do it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.