The motion for today's debate is that we should not ban telemarketing.
Three main areas of clash.
First, on the standard that exists to ban because the there's a reason that the government can't just ban things willy will willy nilly and we think that has to do with with protecting the majority of individuals rights and protecting people from being infringed upon by the government and the problem with the standard that gov lays before us is that they say well telemarketing is really annoying and so because of that we should be able to ban it but literally, on that kind of basis, you could bend anything because someone will find it annoying and then the other way that he tries to tell us it's okay to ban it is by saying that telemarketing is especially pernicious but I don't think there's any especially about it right?
All of capitalism praise on this idea that the consumer is weak, wants to possess things, and praise on the concept of exploiting an individual to pay the most that they possibly would pay for a product but we want to be as free as possible so each person has the largest potential to self actualize in the way that it is even if it's a by means that might be irritating to others, we think it has to do with the higher order self-actualization versus a lower order irritation.
For me it's four seconds of my day, but for someone else it's the way that they earn their money and the way that they keep themselves alive and so we don't think the government gets to say because you irritate a few people we're just going to take away your life lines.
We also just think that there's no absurd external harms which is the other way that a government can justify a ban.
It's seconds of your day and in the end, you're not coerced into buying anything.
It's just like any purchase that would be made.
You're provided with an option and then you choose whether or not to follow through.
In the end, telemarketing is something you can easily hang the phone up on and so we don't think that it's fair to say that this is such a coercive system.
We also just don't think there's a government interest and if anything, there's an interest in keeping telemarketing open because of the number of people that this industry employees and because of the amount of money that it makes and stimulates the economy with.
Our second area of clash is about the loss of jobs and what that looks like because telemarketing is one of the biggest industries in any given country and it consists of incredibly large corporations that employ hundreds of people, especially those who tend to be new to the job market and have few other marketable skills.
So we think that it would be really bad for the economy when people can't find jobs and there's nothing to fill this kind of need this this kind of niche insofar as there's not suddenly something waiting to replace telemarketing we think a lot of people just end up not having an alternative to go to.
We also just think it's incredibly bad for the economy and individuals when people are suddenly fired.
Telemarketing is a really really big field and so we think you're going to have a lot of people who are feeling very scared after this and very vulnerable and will not have spending money to actively interact with the economy.
Our third area of clash is just a question.
We're not sure where the uniquality of this round comes from.
All sales are pernicious and tend to take advantage of a consumer insofar as they are all trying to sell something that probably the majority of people do not require.
And we think that there are way more pernicious forms of advertising and forms of getting people to buy things.
It's just targeted ads that literally prey upon our previous browsing history and try to play up to our current preferences and we think that's infinitely more coercive insofar as it exploits moments in our lives and moments in a personality that might never come back say for that targeted ad.
We think that when you get rid of telemarketing these product still need to be sold and still need to find a consumer base.
So we actually think you end up increasing things like targeted advertisement because those corporations are just going to look for a new outlet for the same products.
We're unsure why it would be any better to provide that.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.