Don't abandon the insanity plea.
Two main arguments, first on why the insanity plea is legitimate.
When we convict someone of a crime, intent matters.
This is why we do things like delineate between like planned homicide versus unplanned homicide and what the like punishment is for that.
This is also like if someone committed a crime while sleep sleepwalking or under threat, we recognize that they have a smaller degree of culpability.
So it is unlikely that we would assign them the same kind of punishment or expect them to go undergo the same kind of trial because of the fact they weren't actually responsible for the crime they committed.
Recognize that we do things like this all the time, not just for premeditated versus not manslaughter, but also when we evaluate the punishment given for theft.
It is often the case that individuals give a smaller amount of punishment or juries are less likely to find someone guilty if the reason for their thievery was something that was just or noble or not just like I wanted a shiny thing.
We think that if someone was inhibited by mental illness, they need different treatment and shouldn't be held to the same legal kind of standards as someone who isn't, right?
Like we recognize that a lower capacity to evaluate the consequence of a crime impact the decision calculus of whether or not you do it, that the that like though the internalization of your impact on the world in the other sense of like how much I'm taking away from the world or how much I'm harming someone changes whether or not I take something.
So if I have a mental illness that prevents me from seeing those kinds of impacts then I should probably be treated with less harshness than what other people would.
Danny keeps talking about how that this is like some speculative thing but like recognize that it's not, it's based on scientific diagnosis of the individual.
It is as speculative as whether we decided something was premeditated or not and in fact that is even more speculative because it doesn't depend on something that is consistent, it depends on us being able to evaluate the mental state of someone in a time that we didn't even witness them whereas when it comes to insanity that individual tends to be consistent across time which means we can evaluate them at any point after their crime and get the same result as during it, which is something we can never do with premeditated versus not because we have to evaluate whether or not that person actually made a plan and no one was around when they did that and afterwards it doesn't matter.
But our second argument is about the way it protects individuals from unjust punishment.
Recognize the only way to send individuals to mental care instead of prison is if they plead insanity and it is successful because then the jury can do things like send them to a facility rather than to a prison where they're likely to be incredibly abused and unlikely to receive what they need.
Danny keeps acting as though you can just magically send someone accused of murder or found guilty like to a rehab facility instead of prison when this is simply not the way it works.
Like in order to change the way that someone is punished, you have to change the way their plea operates.
So you have to have a mechanism like the insanity plea to actually impact that out.
But also recognize that the other problem that occurs when these people end up in jail is it exacerbates their illness and is often both dangerous to them because they are more susceptible to abuse but also dangerous to the people around them because they're more prone to things like outbursts while they are in that prison.
The insanity plea opens the path to send them to mental care and prevent those two groups from being conflated, the mentally ill and the criminal.
Recognize that it's really easy for people to slip through the cracks.
Like recognize that the problem becomes that people that like individuals need to be able to like have the ability to advocate on their behalf because it is not the case that a judge can always recognize that that person needs something different from just jail if they're not informed that that is what they need on like a mental level.
Proud to oppose.