We should not ban hate sites.
Hate sites being sites that promote hate speech or specific hateful doctrines.
Two main areas of clash, first on the protection of free speech.
Given that will modeled this within the united states we think that first there is a constitutional barrier that states that you cannot ban these kind of things.
But second, we think that democratically you shouldn't ban it either.
People deserve a right to self actualize, even if it is done so in the worst and grossest way possible.
Like maybe we should also teach them why it is problematic but if this is the way that they relate to the world that is not the permission of the government to forcibly prevent them from doing so.
But even if that speech is hateful we think that given that we live in a government regulated world it depends too much on politics and who is in power to determine what is hateful versus not.
Because sure, when there's a liberal government, we see the oftentimes that neo nazi pages are more likely to be regulated.
But whenever you have someone who is more altright it is very likely that hateful will be perceived as those who curse out those who are perpetuating what is truly hateful.
And so there's also just a layer of democratic defense here.
Probably don't ban hate speech when we don't know who will be defining that ban in the future.
We also just think that you especially shouldn't be banning it over the internet because people don't have to click it in the first place.
Because we buy that it might be true that it ought be banned in reality because people shouldn't have to leave spheres and leave public spheres in which they feel uncomfortable or like their safety is threatened, but hate sites are opt in systems.
You're literally on a internet that at any moment you can leave, at any moment you can choose not to look it up in the self in the first place and so we think that if you have a right to spew hatred anywhere, it would definitely be on websites on the internet.
But our secondary of clash is just about why banning hate sites creates very pernicious harms.
Whenever you have liberals policing those who are not liberals you end up with this massive outcry that look at how this PC culture is policing and regulating us, and this is exactly how these kind of altright groups gain followers is by saying, look, we are the ones who are truly oppressed, they're preventing us from showing our views.
And so we don't think that liberal media should give people an excuse to prevent portray themselves as victims when they're the ones doing the oppression.
We also think that if these sites exist it's a lot easier to track them and know the involvement of the individuals.
You can know who holds those views so maybe next time an employer is looking up an individual if their name is associated with the website they can know that this is a person who has done very hateful things or thinks very hateful thoughts and maybe they're less likely to hire them.
We also just think that people of color or LGBTQ people can know if and when these meetings are occurring and they can protect themselves.
A lot of the time these pages are geotagged and so if they live in an area that is especially at risk they can know which people they should be avoiding or which locations they can be avoiding and any tool that allows those who are more oppressed to protect themselves is one that, even if it also benefits the problematic side, is more useful and ought not be banned because of the good that it can do.
Like, recognize that on both sides of the house there are going to be hateful people who think hateful things.
But only on ours is there also a counter mechanism that allows us to track what they are doing online and make sure that we know who the danger actually is.
We also just think that pushing people underground is really bad insofar as people are going to be hateful either way.
All that happens on government side is that people look for other ways to do so that is not online so it's much more likely that they'll be having secret meetings in person or just thinking these thoughts in their head until they go up and beat out a black person.
And so we just don't think that it's good to promote a false sense of solvency in which we don't see this hate speech and so we think that it doesn't exist and instead we would like to be able to track it and counter it in reasonable and logical ways.
For these reasons proud to oppose.