We should end the use of mass surveillance.
Three main arguments: first, on the right to privacy.
When citizens exist under a government, they don't opt into having their lives documented and viewed in the same way that they might opt into laws that limit their mobility or require their registration.
This is necessarily undemocratic because when asked, every single person would say that this isn't what they want and isn't how they want their government behaving.
Insofar as the government is supposed to reflect the will of the majority of individuals, and way more than the majority would say they don't want to be mass surveilled, we think that already this is enough reason to vote for gov.
But the other issue here is that we think that people just don't feel comfortable being individuals and accessing the freedoms that are guaranteed by things like the constitution.
So when we say like the right to the pursuit of liberty and life and freedom and the pursuit of happiness, these things are dependent on individuals being comfortable with themselves and comfortable with their environment.
There's this thing in psychology called the hawthorne effect which is, essentially, that individuals who know that they are being watched change the way that they behave, because people are awkward by nature.
They feel embarrassed about things that they maybe shouldn't feel embarrassed about, but there are also stigmas in society that make them feel embarrassed about completely normal processes and completely normal actions.
What this means is that things that are often central to our identity and central to our self-actualization are also things that someone wouldn't perform in public.
This can be everything from the type of media you consume, from the type of sex that you have, who you have sex with, all of these things are things that get tracked when mass surveillance occurs but individually, things that individuals wouldn't want to be tracked.
So if they knew that mass surveillance was occurring, would stop themselves from doing or be less likely to be to be exhibiting.
And we think that this directly inhibits the rights that are codified in the constitution.
So even if you don't buy into the idea of the right to privacy, we think you do have to buy into the underlying framework of our nation and recognize that it needs to be supported.
Our second argument is about giving too much power to the police.
Literally everybody commits small crimes, whether this is stealing food from your workplace, whether this is something like jaywalking, whether it's checking your neighbor's mail every now and then to make sure that your letter didn't get in there.
All of these and I'm sure there are many more, because a lot of laws are incredibly old and we don't necessarily know what they like what they are when we act in society.
So we think the problem becomes this literally allows the police to just go into those mass surveillance tapes or recordings and find something that they can decide that individual has done.
And even if it's not a reason for arrest, even if it's not a real crime, we think that there's always going to be probable cause, because it's just a matter of digging through the footage for something that looks minorly suspicious.
And we think this is really bad because we think that when police are given such unabridged power, that is when they start to abuse it and that is when we start moving away from a democracy and moving away from individuals having freedom.
That's when we start like fascist regimes get put in place is when the police are just allowed to do whatever they want.
We also think that oftentimes this gets applied in an incredibly asymmetric manner.
Like we see with police brutality, this disproportionately targets people of color within the united states.
And we think oftentimes when police choose to convict someone or accuse someone, this also disproportionately happens to people of color.
Our third argument is about placating the public.
Mass surveillance always leaks because it's something that the average person feels deeply uncomfortable with.
So, oftentimes, even the people doing the surveilling on the part of the government also feel deeply conflicted about the fact that they are doing it.
So this is what you get things like incredibly large public protest and coups.
So if you want to protect the domestic peace, you will stop mass surveilling.
Proud to propose.