Don't abolish intelligence tests.
Both sides are going to agree that intelligence tests shouldn't be used in an official capacity for things like job applications or university applications, but this doesn't mean that they don't have their use in people's private lives or primary education.
So we think that when james spends the majority of his speech talking about how this shouldn't be a metric for like whether or not someone gets a job or similar things, we just don't think this is the debate that we're having.
Like, of course, we can recognize that something is absurd when used in certain situations but shouldn't be banned across the board, because maybe it's not harmful enough to be banned, and we don't think that james proved that.
Also, we think that it's fair for our side to say that we would have a lot of advertising about why intelligence tests are bad metrics and are unreliable.
We want the pseudoscience revealed the way it is mostly is in the status quo.
James seems to be arguing as though we're still twenty five years behind, thinking that IQ tests are the objective truth.
This is just not where we are right now, right?
Like, as a society, we have recognized that IQ tests aren't something that is legitimate the vast majority of the time.
We have stopped using them in the majority of cases that james talks about.
Like I've never seen a job use an IQ test as an actual metric for whether or not someone gets the position.
So at the point the majority of his speech is just not applicable to what he wants to debate about, we think he's already lost.
But also, james is worried about biases in a intelligence test.
And, sure, this is true that sometimes these things are applied unfairly or that IQ tests can be biased against individuals who don't know the language, things like that, but we've already learned that and have seen the change occur.
Like the test has literally been redesigned in order to adjust for individuals who are bilingual, and we don't understand why we wouldn't be readjusting and or just recognizing the limitations for individuals who might be from low income housing or individuals who might be people of color.
Two main arguments, first on why intelligent tests are just something that is fun.
People have fun with puzzles and what the puzzles and maintaining the results for their own pleasure, and we think that at the end of the day, as long as they aren't being used in an official capacity that unfairly hurts people who are otherwise qualified on their own merit, there's really no harm in the existence of intelligence tests.
James is wrong about the way that people respond to IQ test results.
There's been enough research that shows that intelligence tests are only predictors of potential, not an absolute on whether people will be successful.
And people have internalized that truth, right?
Like people hear the fact that they are unreliable, we see institutions that aren't using them as often, and we can insofar as people know these things, the way they respond to them are like oftentimes just positive, right?
Like for people who are disadvantaged in other ways, like someone from a really poor family who scores high on an IQ test, now has like now uses it as proof that they are capable and are more likely to feel motivated to keep trying.
Like we think that oftentimes society places limits on individuals like this.
They say, " look, because of your background, you will not be able to achieve, " and they make it significantly more difficult for them to achieve.
And we think that having like a high IQ score can motivate people to see that they can be better or have the potential to be better.
Alternatively, poor IQ test results can motivate fighting against that result and showing that you are better and more capable.
So we really don't think there is a bad response here.
Our second argument is about the uses in primary schools.
A lot of the time, IQ tests can be used in combination with classroom data to evaluate whether kids should be going into higher level programs or getting remedial help.
This is especially important for things like enrichment programs, because they're really something that other kids aren't usually interested in.
It can also predict specific areas of weaknesses.
So if someone scores really poorly on spatial recognition, it signals to teachers to work more on that with them.
Like we agree this is massively a pseudoscience, but we don't think that pseudoscience is always without applications, right?
Like we still have things like personality tests because we think that there might be some benefits beside the fact that it's a pseudoscience.
Proud to oppose.