The motion for today's debate is that national service in the united states should be mandatory.
We'll model this in part off of israel and in part off of existing legislature in the united states.
What we mean is that everyone coming out of high school will be administered a skills test that determines what section in the military they will serve in for the next two years.
Then after military service is complete, any higher education that these people choose to pursue will be partially subsidized by the government.
Two main areas of clash, the first on social good.
We think that forcing everyone to serve in the military necessarily equalizes the playing field to an extent.
Sure we'll never get rid of certain people coming from richer backgrounds or being whiter than those who are surrounding them.
But we do get rid of where their privilege takes them.
Insofar as everyone joining the military has to start from the same baseline and work the same amount in order to get further, we think it necessarily allows people to succeed more than to succeed at the same rate as those who might be more privileged than them.
But more than this we think that it's an easy way in which young people get good job experience, earn some money before they move on to the rest of their lives and build strong networking relationships that can help them find jobs in the future.
Because we think that it's just true that young people often don't know what they're doing once they get out of high school.
Sure, we go to college because it's expected of us or we go work our first job because that's what we're told to do.
But in the end, those first two years are usually spent flailing around, taking random classes that aren't applicable to what we actually want because we haven't figured that out until at least year three.
We think that two years serving in the military provides a good basis with which to contextualize our lives, explore our options and figure out what it is we want.
We think learning important skills such as working with computers, working with other people, is important to allow us to be good, socially functioning and technologically functioning people in the future.
We think oftentimes what happens is that people learn a lot of theory in college but don't really learn how to apply it and we think that providing a basis where you already know how to operate in the real world is positive.
More than this though we think that veterans rights are much more actualized in our world.
Insofar as in the status quo there is a problem where PTSD is laughed upon and good and in good health care isn't provided to veterans out of coming after coming out of the military.
We think we solve that because when everyone is coming out of the same system they are much more likely to value and politically advocate for what their future rights are going to be.
We think that it's much more likely that the government will provide things like therapy and more economic help after after veterans come out of the military but more than this that you decrease social stigma on things like PTSD.
Our secondary of clash has to do with government and national security good.
Because we think it's just true that the draft is easier when people are already trained, in so far as people are already going to be prepared for the expectations ahead of them, know what their strong suits are and know what section they have to serve in, we think that you're always going to be more securely prepared on our side of the house.
But we also think that this increases political participation.
We think the problem in the status quo is that I'm more apathetic about my future because I first think I have no control over it, but second, I'm not expected to politically participate as part of my life.
We think when you force people to participate in the system, especially through something like military service, they are much more likely to politically participate in other spheres.
If I know that me or my children are likely to serve in the war that we're currently fighting, I'm much more likely to examine why we're fighting that war in the first place.
I'm much more likely to keep up with the news to see what the new conflicts look like.
And I'm much more likely to be personally invested in our political system when I know that it personally affects me.
We think in the status quo it's easy to distance yourself.
But now when it's personal, it's a hell of a lot harder.
Finally we want to talk about nationalism.
Because we think that a national identity is much more easily formed when people are aggregated into groups and forced to serve the same national entity.
If I have to fight for my country I'm probably going to believe in it a lot more.
For these reasons proud to propose.