The motion for today's debate is that we should disband nasa.
What we mean by this is that we would remove like change we would stop all nasa proceedings stop giving money to them reallocate those funds elsewhere and then presumably allow all of the current resources to be adopted by some kind of private corporation and let all the the employees go.
Two main areas of clash.
First on why private corporations are more effective.
First I think it's really important to note that nasa is not an independent agency that gets decide its own goals or requirements.
Rather it is an agency that has to listen to the government a group of un scientifically trained individual in terms of what it ought be pursuing.
Next the problem here is that the people who it listens to in the government are individuals who are beholden not to the scientific community or to the betterment of humanity but rather to the constituents and public eye.
What this means is that nasa is always going to inefficiently spend a lot of money on showy on more showy actions because it sounds better to the public and allows a better rallying cry around that space travel than if they were a group that was purely scientific and purely deso to other scientists.
Like at the end of the day we don't need more rovers on mars but we keep putting it there because it looks really good politically and provides a rallying point for the general populace around being really proud of our country for doing things even though we've done it a million times before.
What we actually need to do is focus more on fundamental research and mineral mining but because these are things that are inherently less attractive to the public eye it is never possible for nasa to fully designate all of their resources to it.
Moreover we think that you end up with more investment in private corporations that do things related to space through space acts when investors are not afraid of the government pulling putting their industry out of business.
Insofar as nasa would always be a government endorsed competitor risk averse investors will always be afraid of investing instantly in something like space x or other private space corporations because they wouldn't know at what time the government would just pull their shit together and nasa would run everybody out of business.
We think that we make this investment less risky on our side of the house when we actively do not have nasa anymore.
And we also just want to talk a little bit of on the difference in incentive structures because we already established that politicians are enabled for are are incentivized to listen first to their constituents but recognize that when it comes to private corporations they're always going to be holding to their stockholders and not the public and recognize that when you are a stockholder in a scientific or not like space really corporation it's very unlikely that you're someone who has like a particular like interest in anything other than the signs that you're invested in like the reason that we invest in the things is because they're going to be economically solvent and good for society.
And we think that when you're investing in a space corporation you have to know something about it and know something about the needs.
And so we actually think that you're going to end up with much more science focused space exploration on our side of the house.
But our second area of clash is about why there's a better way to spend this government money like recognize the government's obligation exists as citizens first in because of things like the social contract but these aren't just like obligations like a whole like we think this is like arbitrarily and like spread across rather we think that it's like designated obligations that like rise in hierarchy of following like the hierarchy of needs right like what we mean by this is that the government should act to fulfill basic needs first insofar as this is where people truly harmed and where the government fails to fulfill their fundamental obligation.
The need for nasa is never going to be more immediate as compared to the need of food having food or not having housing and we think the government should focus on providing those basic needs first given that thousands of their constituents need it more than they need to know that there's an international space station.
Like we think at the end of the day that the government ought be providing a basic standard of care to all individuals and if it is not fulfilling that for the majority or even for a few than it is not fulfilling its obligations as part of the social contract for these reasons proud to propose.