Don't end athletic scholarships.
I think the problem is that danny throughout his speech is overly paternalising.
He assumes that students can't make the calculus of what being on an athletic scholarship will look like throughout their college years.
Recognize that someone who takes an athletic scholarship isn't someone who is new to sports or new to the expectations that come from being on a competitive team.
They are usually people who were top athletes within their own schools who specifically wanted to continue playing when they left that school.
Like oftentimes they want recruiters to be there so that they can get these scholarships.
These are people who understand those demands and can make those calculi for themselves.
The idea that other universities or adults know better than high schoolers what they ought be having in terms of scholarship money is absurd at the point that someone can always refuse a scholarship but if they need it then that is something that is objectively true not something that is arguable against so removing something that individuals need just means that those people are now lacking.
I'll get into that more.
Two areas of clash, first on why this is a meaningful opportunity.
Recognize that what athletic scholarships represent are just another option or avenue for kids to get to college in the first place.
Recognize we have a lot of these different kinds of scholarships.
People can come in on merit scholarships that are based on their GPA performance which requires you to be absurdly studious entering your university years to the point where you might forego things like social lives or other things that should matter equally, debate scholarships that require you to participate on a debate team and be competitively successful.
All of these things are equally demanding and equally unreasonable if we use the kind of standards that danny uses, but when you recognize that individuals opt into these systems on their own because they recognize the opportunity that it brings with them ie they weigh the costs and the benefits then we think that it's always going to be okay to have these kinds of scholarships because individuals can make those decisions on their own.
Recognize that the alternative becomes that people will simply just not go to college at all or go somewhere significantly worse because recognize that if I'm someone who needs that scholarship in order to go to a university it presumably means that I'm not going to afford it by other means but also it usually means that I'm not getting money in other ways.
So maybe the isn't providing you with enough or I didn't have a high enough GPA in high school to have a merit-based aid things like that.
So even if it is the case that it encourages a world in which you prioritize athletics above academics, at least you get to the world where that choice can be made because the alternative on their side of the house is either you just don't go to the university at all or you go to one that you didn't want to go in the first place.
Maybe it has a lot lower quality, like maybe it's just something that you're not as interested in and so won't be as dedicated.
So the problem there is just this is a significantly worse option for these people by comparison to just having to do athletics for a couple more years something that they usually like.
I think the other problem that danny doesn't address is that he just assumes that all of these people hate sports and are doing it just for the scholarship, but recognize that usually this is a commitment that is made because you're someone who likes the activity, because you're someone who spent a lot of time doing it.
So we think that's another reason this is just a meaningful way for people to engage in a social group as well once they get to university.
Our second argument which we already touched on briefly is about why there's no alternative.
It is the burden on side government to show how these people would go to college or access the same opportunities otherwise because usually they don't have high enough groups for academic scholarship, usually there aren't any other potential because they're relying on athletics because they spend so much time in high school being on this.
So we think that the problem here is just like the assumption that you're going to take easy classes is true for any demographic like business majors take absurdly easy classes because it's said that they have to spend time networking.
Like daniel has to show that the alternatives are better.
He can't just muddle around by talking about how there are some aspects that are bad, he has to explain why that necessarily outweighs the most important thing which are these individuals' choices and preferences.
Proud to oppose.