We shouldn't subsidize distance education.
Two main areas of clash, first in why it's a bad use of government money.
Recognize that it will be incredibly expensive for the government to subsidize distance education to the point where it becomes cheap or free for the majority of individuals especially given that sam modeled this as both on the high school like middle school and college level.
This is money that money that needs to be used to hire instructors, buy website domains, get IT help, and everything else involved basically running an entire school but doing it over an amount of distance which maximizes bureaucracy and makes it infinitely harder to run.
We think that this money could be used to help other programs such as like you know going to providing food, welfare programs, and other things that are infinitely more important.
Recognize that in society there is a hierarchy of needs based on the ways in which people have like need things to survive.
Education as a right comes after things like food and shelter insofar as without an education I might suffer in society but I will exist, but without food and shelter I will literally not be able to exist long enough to even think about an education.
We think this is especially true at the point that public schools, at least one of them, and yes sure of like varying quality but at least one is available for everybody regardless of where they live or in an area that is easily accessible for them to live in.
We think there might be a right to basic education but we don't think that there is a right to supplemental or significantly better than what you would alternatively be getting education.
This is because the right to education only exists as a facilitative right and only because society has to a certain point.
We think that seventy five years ago education would not be a right insofar as individuals didn't need an education to be a functioning member of society like you could easily work a job that would pay you enough to live without going to college or going to high or like graduating high school.
But now because society has changed, we see it as a facilitative of right to life, but recognize that these kinds of rights aren't infinite.
People can operate in society fine with a public high school and public university education, things that are easily available to them as long as they're willing to like put in the effort for.
We think it's much more important to provide food, homeless shelters, like help those at the bottom before you help those in the middle.
And we think until society has at least begun to solve those issues, which they haven't, we can't even start to talk about subsidizing broader policies like education.
But our second area of clash is about how it is massively inefficient.
First recognize that people will use it as a replacement for high school or college.
They'll see this is something easy, something that they can do from home, and so do it instead.
This is really bad because it's always going to be worse than having a structured and in your face teacher interaction that could actually help you in the future and like teach you like good social skills when you have to be in a classroom, things like that.
But we also think it's bad because the people who opt for distance or subsidized education are those who did most poorly in public schools in high school and so could not afford to go to a college based on like scholarships or financial aid.
We think that these are also however the people who would most benefit from a structured lifestyle and a structured like school education because it's really difficult to motivate yourself to do your homework and to like perform well in school like internally and we think that what structured schedules provide as like happen when you go to an in person college is that they have a certain metric of enforcement or like self enforcement that is stronger than just I don't have to log on tonight to have my class.
We also just think that you're creating a world in which employers necessarily look down on people based on the fact that they did distance education.
We think the government is going to advertise this is something that is comparable to a real college degree, that citizens are going to bite, but in the same way that large corporations often look down on people who go to community colleges we think that individuals are also going to look down on those who are going to like distance education that is subsidized by the government.
We think this happens because of the high school level of colleges being unwilling to take those who completed it as we already see happens oftentimes with individuals who are home schooled but also happens with people going to college is in terms of people unwilling to hire someone from distance education versus a comparable privately educated college for these reasons proud to oppose.