We should ban the church of scientology.
The model for this is really simple.
Obviously, we don't think that you can mandate personal beliefs.
We think that people who might believe in these kinds of cult-like practices are going to exist on both sides of the house and we can't change that, but we can make it so that the church of scientology isn't recognized as a church by the government, so it loses its tax exempt status and can no longer call itself a religion.
In this way, we ban the church scientology from presenting itself as an official doctrine or an official religion that is sanctioned by the state.
Three main arguments, first on why it is not a real religion.
Recognize that the church of scientology is literally just a moneymaking organization.
It is made up of an elite class that makes millions and millions of dollars by charging the average person who joins the church for things they say are necessary to be members, like clearing services and other similar things that they say will help them to become better believers, but in reality are just padding the pockets of individuals who are already ridiculously wealthy.
It operates as a pyramid scheme.
They tell people they're more likely to go to heaven if they bring in more people and spend more of their own money, and we think it's incredibly problematic to require our religions to to to as a religion require people to consistently pay so much money in order to be a member at the point that this is literally going to be like creating these kinds of divisions, both in terms of class but also in terms of like the emotional state of these individuals who participate in this.
We think that you we we if we don't require our religion to prove some amount of religiosity, then we just allow any group to qualify for being tax exempt and other religion-based benefits.
So if we win this kind of argument, you're automatically going to vote to ban the church of scientology because if all it's doing is making money rather than the services that we think churches are meant to provide and the reason that they get their tax exempt status, like spiritual relievement and community, then that is not a religion and ought not be called one.
Our second argument is that they have committed so many crimes that they ought be disqualified from their religious status.
They have problematic black sites called the rehabilitation project force where people have died because they have refused to convert.
They capture people and literally torture them to death.
There have been a lot of organized harassment claims.
The church will compile kill files on people and use it to blackmail them.
They force people to talk about their deepest traumas and embarrassments during the church services in order to have something to keep on them later and to prevent them from leaving if they try, and they even tried to take over the government through infiltration via operation snow white.
They sold documents from the IRS and wiretaps communication.
It is really problematic to allow the proliferation of something like this and call it a religion because it portrays the idea that religions can just do whatever they want and call themselves whatever they want and still access all of the benefits.
We think insofar as the average person would not get away with crimes like this, we do not understand why an institution or an organization would.
Our third argument is about the improper use of money.
The money that the church makes doesn't go back into the community or even the facilities, rather it goes into the private pockets of many of its members and goes to funding political organization and lobbying.
They've literally invested in trying to infiltrate and influence the government.
If you're going to be a church and be excluded from taxes, you shouldn't be using money this way because it literally is you working against the groups that provided you with the support you needed in the first place.
They did they also did things more directly like supported some nebraskan senator-elect, someone else in california.
We shouldn't be mixing church and state in this way.
If we allowed this, then every political pac ever would claim they are a church to get their taxes removed so that they can use more of their money to their political ends.
Recognize that out of these three arguments, even if you buy one of them, then we already win this round because we show you that they are unsuitable to be a church.
Like we think that the criteria for being a religion has to be multifaceted and you have to hit all of them.
Proud to propose.