We should not governmentally subsidize investigative journalism.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why it's an absolute waste of money.
Recognize that the government has a hierarchy of obligations when it comes to the ways in which it protect its citizens.
We think that the prime this is like a direct hierarchy related to the way in which people have needs that need to be fulfilled more than others ie the hierarchy of needs that is like very popular in psychology.
So we think that this obligate this hierarchy often goes through the way of lick literal survival needs up to maybe needs that we like to have fulfilled but will survive if they aren't and we think that at best investigative journalism qualifies as a higher level need insofar as no one is going to die without more investigative journalism as compared to someone who is starving.
Like we think at the end of the day if you provide an individual in poverty with the decision between something like food stamps or more investigative journalism because the priorities are very different when someone is hungry as opposed to when someone isn't they would probably choose to have the food stamps first and given that it is the government's job to look out for the worst off I society we think it would become important for the government to fulfill that need before fulfilled others.
So we think that there isn't a justification for subsidizing investigative journalism until you have you have fulfilled all of the survival needs below it.
So as long as we have people living in extreme poverty as long as we have people who are homeless or starving within a country it is the obligation of the government to fulfill those needs before it can even start pondering fulfilling things like our need for more investigative journalistic articles.
We think this is especially true because investigative journalism as a field isn't particularly under fire right now.
There are plenty of private donations that fund both physical like paper source media but also fund a lot of investigative journalism that then gets claimed out then gets talked about in podcasts or in online news sources where it has become more popular for people to find their news.
Since the survival is not at risk we're unclear why we should subsidize it.
This would basically be like us saying well we should subsidize like some very specific major within colleges before we've even started subsidizing public education as a whole because like maybe that like maybe we think that major is a fundamental right but recognize that because we still haven't made the first barrier lower just to get to college then it would be a waste of time and energy to subsidize a major that may or may not require more funds.
Our second area of clash is about how invest how the government subsidization of investigative journalism would breed corruption.
First recognize that the best way in which to incentivize lest investigation into a government is to make the government the funder of whatever might be doing the investigation.
We think this is why we have so much difficulty getting getting getting past court cases that involve suing or accusing a government body or even like a government employee because these two agencies are so tied together and so beholden to each other it's really hard to ever have an incentive to find one guilty in front of the other.
So we think that once the government is the one paying you you're not likely to dish out the same kind of dirt for fear of the of that money going away since you're like directly linked to that regime or to that government financially.
We think that it exacerbates the already existing problem of journalists often not investigating politics because maybe they're being paid off by a politician to like him something specific or something like that.
We also think it establishes networking link between journalists and government officials that's really dangerous because it brings us closer to a world in which journalist misreport data to get more money.
We think would be really easy for someone to reach out and be like look I can make this worth your while it also creates the incentive to paint specifically the current regime in a more favorable way because it can be really bad come election season if someone who doesn't support these subsidies comes to power and you become reliant on them.
We think that this gives undue influence and undue reason to influence elections in a problematic way.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.