The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit small modular reactors.
What we mean by this is that we would basically make them more accessible through sale in like department stores or tech shops.
We would have like easier installs, and we would have more normalization in society.
So more education about what they are, and more advertising for them being a positive thing to use.
Two main areas of clash: first, on how they would revolutionize the standard of living in hard-to-live places.
First, we want to talk about developing countries, because currently there are a lot of areas that can't afford all of the oil that they need to function or don't have the money have the money for a lot of the infrastructure that oil needs you to have in order to function properly.
Or they are being overly regulated by green energy laws, being developing countries that can't afford to do things like get large filters that would filter out the smog coming out of their corporations, etcetera, and so they don't actually have the ability to create the kind of infrastructure and the kind of large energy-powered cities that a lot of industrialized nations have.
So we think that SMRs are really important in this situation because they're self-renewing they're self-renewing power stations, so it's a one-time expenditure for the reactor and for the infrastructure and after that, all you're doing is paying for like some kind of upkeep and checkups over time.
But it's nothing like having to buy literal barrels of oil that you have to then ship overseas, that is dependent on the price the middle east sends and things like that.
It like basically creates a world in which you can provide millions and millions of people with power and and without having to be dependent on another nation for that power.
We also think that when you bring nations power and energy, it comes with the democratization of that nation.
So a lot of these developing countries are little bit unstable.
They've struggled with having despotic rulers in the past and military regimes.
And so a lot of this, we think, has to do with the instability of the individuals within that nation.
They don't have reliable food sources, reliable water sources, or reliable energy sources.
And we think that the trend is that when you provide a nation with energy, you provide them with a with a route by which they can also develop education systems.
They have more access to news media through the internet and there's more general development.
Next, we want to talk about the expansion of population and why the SMRs are really important for this.
Because right now, we're having so many people born that countries like japan are literally instituting cage apartments in which one apartment is filled with like seven or eight cages that people live in in order to have enough space to give to accommodate the amount of people that they have in their countries.
And we think this is like a very bad standard of living and with SMRs, you can have more people living in harder-to-reach places that currently don't have the kind of infrastructure that they might need, but if you are able to bring your own power station there, it would be relatively easy to set up a, like, place to live.
So, in this situation, we're talking about mountains, we're talking about deserts, we're talking about less populated valleys, forests, and it'll be much more easy for people to go live there if they can just carry the infrastructure they need with them.
Our second independent point is about the environment.
We think that SMRs provide a very simple solution to the energy crisis.
Recognize that global warming is very real and more and more areas are being affected by it.
Meanwhile, nuclear energy is very clean when it's being used.
It doesn't require incredibly heavy drilling and when there is drilling, it doesn't release toxins into the surrounding land and water that make it practically inhabitable after those corporations leave.
So, we actually think that you get a greener and safer world when you're relying on small modular reactors as well, and so we would prefer that they were further exploited.
For these reasons, proud to propose.