We should not subsidize single parents.
Recognize that instead we would prefer to subsidize based on class poverty level not on parental status which we think is the keynote here because whatever money we would be allocating to serve single parents we think should more specifically be siphoned off to people who are of lower class or economically struggling.
If a single parent is poor then that's covered.
The burden is on op to show why single parents need even more than just consideration based on their class.
We think that rich single parents exist in the status quo and they wouldn't be ones that we think need assistance or need subsidization but would still classify under op's model in which you are just subsidizing based on whether or not you are a single parent.
Two main areas of clash, first on why it is an unjustified trade off of resources.
We think that the US has it's not a we think this is a fact the united states has an incredibly welfare budget.
There's always a question of prioritization because the funds trade off regardless of where you put it and those funds didn't really exist in the first place as shown by the fact that nearly every category of welfare is underfunded in the status quo whether it's our orphan care system or our care for homelessness.
So we think that it's more important to subsidize the poor because there's more immediate harm.
If I cannot afford food, if I can't afford a house, if I do not have a job, then the services that can provide you with those things create long term stability but if I'm not provided wih those things that is a risk of mortality in that not having a house in the middle of the winter means that I freeze.
Not having food over long periods of time means that I starve or am more susceptible to disease.
We think these things are always going to be more important because they are always higher order necessities than simply if I am a single parent who already has a house and is able to send their child to school and has a job but maybe this extra subsidization provides me with marginally more of each of those things and we just don't think that that is something that is comparative at all.
We think that when you put money into that general category of single parent those people who need more forego those higher order needs and we think that's incredibly problematic and shouldn't happen but our secondary of cautious about conservative backlash.
Recognize that although it is an incorrect way of thinking people see single parents as having put themselves in their situation.
So this reasoning also applies to when people blame teenage mothers for their situation.
They say you're the one who chose to have sex, you chose to get pregnant, you chose not to make your marriage last or you chose not to be someone who found another like partner, and therefore all of the harms are your own.
This is certainly flawed logic, but it is the logic held by mass by massive portions of the population and especially portions of the population that have a lot of money and a lot of political clout.
So when we do things like we create large amounts of subsidies or help welfare programs for a specific group of people and people get angry about you doing so, it precludes future money or future assistance going to those groups even if we have not fully helped them.
So we think that even if you started to subsidize single parents those who are poorer single parents would still need more help than those who are not as poor but they would not be obtaining it and the problem on their side of the house is that they would never be able to obtain it because of the backlash that would occur that would say look we already gave you something and that should be enough you're the one who created this world.
Bur we also think there's a lot of social backlash in this situation.
We think that oftentimes whether it is rightful or not people tend to take out their political leanings on the people around them.
So if you're someone who is a republican who knows a single mother you are infinitely less likely to include her in things like PTA meetings or talk positively about her to her peers.
You're likely to exclude her from social gathering that might be occurring and these kinds of things over often overflow to the children in question as well.
So if you are the child of a parent who is unhappy about the current state of giving money to single parents, then you're more likely to bully that child because you've probably heard from your parents about how undeserving they are.
Proud to propose.