Don't ban anonymous posts.
I think the problem on danny's side of the house is that he misunderstands the way the majority of individuals use anonymous posts.
Sure there are internet trolls and bad people who want to harass each other and racists and problematic individuals, but they are vastly outweighed by the majority of individuals who use these kinds of forms and these kinds of spaces not for hatred or for harassment but rather to do the things that the internet generally allows us to do.
Make friends, have communities, ask embarrassing questions, and generally find out more about the world.
So when you're adjudicating this round recognize that you're never going to be valuing all of those other people less than the people that that danny is talking about when he talks about these like harassers and these trolls because they just don't make up the majority of the individuals.
Two main arguments, first on allowing safe spaces.
There are plenty of people who turn to anonymous online communities for perfectly positive personal reasons.
If you're gay and you need a safe community but don't want other people to know about it because you're not out yet, if you're a victim of abuse or controlling parents or partners, so online anonymous places are good for getting your questions, answers, or asking for help without your abusers finding out.
If you're literally a teenager who just wants to make friends but doesn't want it following around in school or as they grow older and the majority of these anonymous posts are anonymous because the people behind them are just trying to keep their parts of their lives separate, but for not for any pernicious or problematic reason.
And so we think that insofar as this can actually be a really important avenue for someone's security and like really dangerous tracking device on danny's side of the house we think that's really important.
But also I want to talk about doxing because if nothing is anonymous than people's identifying information is infinitely easier to get a hold of and you will necessarily see significantly more doxing.
When people review anonymous information about or personally identifying information about someone online and essentially say go get them and this often happens against people who can protect themselves less ie we often see that female video gamers get harassed by male gamers and like sometimes this transfers to reality and it can be actually very physically dangerous for these individuals and also feel like the people around them.
So if you happen to have a child or a significant other who's involved in this they also get caught in the crossfire.
And we think this is really dangerous for peoples' security.
And danny says that you're gonna have all this harassment wit anonymous posts but we'd prefer harassment to be verbal instead of physical because real harassment is going to occur when you have not anonymous posting and that's actually going to impact people's physical lives.
We're always going to defer to a world that even if you have more anonymous harassment keeps that digital rather than in reality.
We also just think that his side of the house is always going to be worse for discourse because people who are afraid of being found out in reality so they're not going to post in the first place and it's not going to be the like bad people who are afraid to post because like bullies are going to be bullies either way.
We think rather it's gonna be the people who are good for discourse like you know like edgy politicians and feminists and things like that who now are going to be worried about them being found out in reality and so they are no longer going to feel comfortable.
Our second argument is about pushing groups underground.
People with truly bad intentions are just going to go to the dark web which we actually think is worse because now you get no recourse against them at all and people also aren't going to have any idea of how large or how hateful these groups are.
Like if danny is going to value discourse than he has to value people being able to participate in that discourse regardless of their background, their political beliefs, or whether or not their a bad person because it is only by putting these ideas into the marketplace of ideas that people can actually just prove them or say that they disagree or it simply understand that there are people who have these opinions out there who they would rather avoid.
This can also be a security issue.
Like if I'm a person of color or someone who's going to be discriminated against it's relatively important for me to know where and who these individuals are and if you make these posts if if these people get pushed out down underground, you never get to see that magnitude.
Proud to oppose.