The motion for today's debate is that we should ban fraternities.
What we mean by this is that college campuses would no longer allow the existence of a fraternity or fraternity like organization to exist.
I think that those standards would be defined by like whatever the current definition of a recognized fraternity is and that this replay would then be discouraged and actively forced off campus.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on why fraternities are incredibly harmful to the individual and their behaviors.
First recognize that fraternities force students to prioritize their social life above their studies.
This is necessarily necessary true because they always require events or hazing that have to be perfect prioritized lest they get dropped from the organization entirely.
To think that even if someone comes into a fraternity thinking that they're going to be able to balance both and thinking that they're not going to have to choose between their priorities they're always going to have to choose because they're never going to want to get dropped out of this organization they worked so hard to get into.
But also because a lot of the events are mandatory that you just can't get out of hazing if you want to be part of the event.
So we think that they end up getting stuck in it.
This is bad for two reasons.
First recognize that it's incredibly stressful.
It's not easy to live a life where you are constantly worried about losing your community or trying to find a balance between your work like your academic life and your social life.
Like these are struggles that every student goes through but we don't think you should be making it infinitely more difficult by adding fraternities to the calculus insofar as they're incredibly more demanding than any normal person's social life.
But the second reason is that it risks future prospects because of the social life.
We think at the end of the day no matter how much I drink or how much fun I have at parties it's always going to be less important than the fact that the rest of my life might go to shit because of the time that I didn't spend studying or being a member like productive member of society.
So we actually think it's like incredibly important to not risk your future prospects and we think that like fraternities necessarily force people to do so.
But secondly we want to talk about how it creates drinking habits because recognize that fraternities inherently are a lot of group parties and group events that include alcohol and other substances not only do alot of people first get exposed to things like drugs through fraternities because of systematic like drug dealers and groups that like work within them but also it's you get used to drinking on the weekdays like this is normalized.
So you don't actually see an issue when you find yourself like through like once every two days drinking copious amounts of alcohol something that gets normalized around you meaning that it's a behavior that can be really dangerous in the future and so far these kind of things are addictive and habit forming.
So it means that what happens now is that after you exit college and after you're done with fraternities you've gotten so used to drinking that it's something you've no longer stop and don't have a healthy relationship with.
But finally under this I think we should talk about paying for friendship.
Since it's really problematic that fraternities have this idea that if you're going to buy your way in and you automatically get a community of friends and family whatever and I do think it's like bad to say that some people who are like structurally held out of fraternities like it's bad that like they never get access to this thing like they create this barrier on friendship that says that once you've paid me I'm obligated to be your friend but also the reverse of this where like if you haven't paid me that I'm unlikely to be as accepting of you and were unsure on why money is like a good thing to propagate here.
Our second area of clash is about the social norms this fraternities like propagate.
First I think it's like we should talk about the misogyny that often like permeates these spheres.
There's a lot of rape culture it's incredibly broey.
Like parties are often like notably dangerous for women in so far as no one asks for consent at them and that this is the one of the main places in which sexual assault occurs and no one reports it.
We think a lot of the time like fraternity are just like a lot of men who think they know things about women and so stereotypes just propagate a lot faster in these kinds of areas and so and like this is like very fundamental in that they use women and like you use the abuse of women in order to connect with each other on a social level.
But I also want to talk about the drinking culture because recognize that fraternities are based on a culture that rewards those who drink more and do more stupid things which we think is inherently a societal norm we ought discourage.
For these reasons proud to propose.