So I think it's important to know the comparative in this round.
Rather then soliciting public funds not being allowed to privately advertise or get private funds, public broadcasting stations are now going to no longer receive public funds, probably rename them to private broadcasting stations, and be capable of soliciting private grants and private loans.
So two main areas of clash: first on why there is a double bind with government funding.
Either government funding comes with strings attached that force public broadcasting services to reflect the current government's politics, or these kinds of broadcasting stations and up on the middle of the road fallacy and don't provide any kind of good news.
So first, let's deal with the first half of this.
A lot of the time, if a certain institution is going to give money to another institution, it comes with certain strings attached.
In the case of the government they usually prefer for their public services to reflect positively on whatever the current government is.
This can come in multiple kinds of ways.
Oftentimes this comes on a like personal politics way, in which situations more liberal president president and congress terms have a more liberal media, versus a more conservative president and congress terms have a much more conservative media.
But also on a wider more nationwide scale, we have a lot of situations like in for example we see this in in during the vietnam war but also like in germany during nazi occupation, where you have situations where the public broadcasting stations reflect statistics that are either turned a little bit to be more favorable to whatever country you're in, or reflect stories that are flat out lies, or only specific stories out of a wider study, like wider amount of stories that might reflect the opposite.
So for a really long time, even while we weren't doing so great in the vietnam war, we were saying that we were doing really well in the vietnam war until private stations got a hold of it and showed a lot of videos of how we weren't doing so great.
So if people do not have access to these private stations they're essentially listening to that nation's propaganda twenty four seven.
The other side of this double bind is that stations feel pressured to be unbiased, because they know they're publicly affiliated, and then they fall into the middle of the road fallacy.
What this means is that they're never going to choose a political side or extreme on any issues.
Rather, they try to find a perfect center.
The problem with this is that there are a lot of facts in the world that become incredibly politicized.
For example, global warming is definitely real but if you look at it from politics perspective, you have a lot of politicians who find it personally preferable to deny its existence.
Should this public broadcasting station find the middle of the road, they're going to neither deny nor accept that it exists.
Even of the correct answer is: " hey, global warming is real. "
And the impact of this is that these stations aren't going to provide you with very good or very investigative news because they're being busy either going along with whatever the government says or trying to maintain an unbiased view and therefore falling into this fallacy.
Our second area of clash has to do with why they can't adjust to the current time.
Because in the end, television is falling out of style, and especially public broadcasting stations.
More and more we're living in a time where podcasts become the main way by which people get their news.
That or main articles.
So government funding ties these stations to a to the television in a way that other kinds of funding wouldn't.
For example, NPR could barely break free to create their first podcasts.
Once they were created they became incredibly successful.
But because they were publicly funded they couldn't solicit advertisements on privately privately owned channels.
This meant they never got the kind of the kind of viewership that they could have had.
The other problem with this is that a lot of workers left NPR soon after the podcast started because they felt like government institutions prevented them from being as creative as they would have preferred or as critical of the government as they would have preferred.
Insofar as it actually creates limitations on public broadcasting services, we would prefer that they privatized.
For these reasons proud to oppose.