Don't increase the fuel tax.
Two main arguments, first on the way this restricts necessary actions by the average individual.
Recognize that transportation, things like heating and lighting and keeping water in your home, essentially basically every behavior that is necessary to sustain life within a house environment is dependent on fossil fuels.
And this has nothing to do with the choices that individuals make, but rather what the choices that are available to them.
Because it's not true that there's often companies that can provide green energy in specific areas and it is not the case that people have control over this the majority of the time.
So what are we talking about here?
For transportation people who don't own cars.
And recognize that or recognize that people don't own cars just for fun.
They do it because most people live outside of city centers and have no way to get to work, the grocery store, or anywhere without a car.
Like driving your kids to school becomes impossible.
People who don't need a car usually don't own one anyway because it is an unnecessary expenditure and takes up a lot of space and usually if you're living in an urban center it also gets taxed by way of having to be kept in a garage so you're also paying for parking.
What this means is that we're literally talking about people whose livelihoods are at risk once they can no longer afford gas, which is very problematic because the alternatives are also ridiculously pricey.
Like electric cars are still experimental technology and are incredibly expensive in the status quo.
So once you do things like increase the fuel tax, you're making people unable to afford like the basic necessity gas cars that they have right now but you're not actually making green energy cars more affordable for them.
And given that there's a fairly large expense gap between the two, people are just left without anything.
And then with heating and lighting and keeping your house in the winter this is also very important right?
Like if all of our house functions that keep us protected from the environment are electricity or gas dependent, you probably shouldn't be raising the amount that they cost because then individuals who are already on the border or in poverty won't be able to afford them anymore.
And we need people to be able to stay warm in the winter, to be able to cook their food.
Like their children need to be able to eat and do homework and not get hypothermia.
This is really important like just for your day to day existence and we think it's much more important than the marginal impact that the average person might have on global warming which we're also just going to address more later on.
Like james needs to recognize that he is literally screwing with peoples' ability to live by putting a price tag on the stuff they need to facilitate life, and that this especially falls on individuals who are poor.
Our second argument is about this is why why this is an incorrect burden.
Sure it is bad that individuals are contributing marginally to climate change but their contribution is nothing compared to massive corporations that are mass producing, dumping waste, and using inefficient fuel sources for much larger projects.
Moreover james doesn't actually create an incentive for pre-existing companies to change their actions because it's the consumer who's paying the tax not corporations.
The problem is availability of competitive energy sources.
Most areas only have gas and oil companies so people will still have to pay for the fossil fuels, they're just going to have to pay more.
He can't prove that the tax money is going to green energy.
Much more likely it's just going to the military or public safety nets and healthcare, so it's more important to make sure that people can afford to heat their homes in the winter and get to work so that they can live.
Moreover we just think that more effective policies would be ones that actually targeted corporations rather than individuals.
So maybe taxes on emissions or taxes on the size of a corporation or their environmental impacts or perhaps we would just appreciate subsidies for green energy companies.
Like there are literally a million ways to implement these kinds of things that get the best impacts that james wants without unnecessarily harming innocent individuals who are just trying to live.
Proud to oppose.