Don't ban alcoholic beverages.
Right off the top, I think the most important thing in this kind of debate round will always be to prove efficacy on side government of the ban because recognize that when you ban something and then don't manage to enforce it, this is infinitely worse than having not banned it at all even if we agree that the item itself is bad.
That is even if I as opposition recognize that alcohol can be really bad and problematic, if I still demonstrate that banning it leads to less regulations, leads to more use by minors, or it leads to like more problematic use, then I still win the round because it is not enough to say that we ought ban something because it is bad.
You must show that that ban will not have other adverse consequences outside of just preventing that item from being used.
Three main arguments, first on unjustified government paternalism.
Recognize first and foremost that we generally agree there are two ways in which the government is justified in banning something otherwise you can show that there's a one way is that you can show there's a pertinent government interest and the other way is that you can demonstrate that paternalism is justified because of the way that this might impact society.
Recognize first there's no pertinent government interest in banning something like alcohol if because what it does is prevents the government from being able to tax receive money on that alcohol.
Insofar as it is actively detrimental to the state when you take these kinds of actions, but you cannot ban because of there like there being an interest.
Then the idea that there might be paternalism is also incorrect because recognize that even though we are sure that government can point to some overflow harms that alcohol has to individuals that are not the ones consuming it, we think that the ones that are expressed are not enough to justify banning it.
Recognize that we are willing to allow individuals to harm themselves for the sake of freedom in the majority of things that we do not ban.
We don't ban extreme sports.
We don't ban cigarettes.
We don't ban in the majority of states at this point marijuana.
Like recognize that we've seen that individual that we value individual choice above individual freedom and even in the cases in which there are some harms to people outside of that person, we still haven't banned it such as secondhand smoke not being not being enough of a reason for us to ban cigarettes even though it can have incredibly pernicious effect against minors.
We make these kinds of we make these kinds of laws and we like prevent governments from ban things willy nilly because we recognize that when we don't prioritize individual freedom, the road to oppression is incredibly likely to occur because the government can easily justify certain things being banned based on the idea that they are harmful but what the government is bad at recognizing is the times in which that harm is outweighed by the benefits that those individuals might accrue from it.
We think that insofar as that is the case, alcohol is also one of those things were even though it might be harmful to the individual, the government cannot predict how much it might mean on a cultural level or the way in which individuals can consume it responsibly in order to mitigate those harms.
We also just think that alcohol is massively like when alcohol is regulated then it doesn't matter anyway, right?
Like we think the fact that drunk driving crashes went down when age restrictions on alcohol were put in place, like we also saw the same kind of correlations when higher levels of education about alcohol happened.
Insofar as all that occurred, we don't think it's justified to ban it.
Our second argument is about black markets.
Look, we tried the prohibition.
It didn't work not because there wasn't enough technology but because people literally just want alcohol so badly that they're going to do things like produce it in their basement and only sell it to their friends so they don't get caught and things like that.
Recognize this is really problematic because the government can't tax it for revenue, but also because it becomes even more difficult to age regulate.
It means that miners can get a hold of it and we don't have any recourse to that because they're going to be afraid to call the hospital if if like it was made incorrectly or if they drink too much because it's illegal right now.
But third, we just think this leads to bad social norms.
It means people won't call hospitals or help if there's alcohol related issues.
Kids won't get educated about it being safe and people who get violent when they drink will either get illegal alcohol or find another substance.
So that entire on point just doesn't matter.
Proud to oppose.