Don't ban surrogacy.
Right off the top, I want to address the idea that we're discouraging adoption, which danny keeps harping on and saying is so important.
Even if it is the more moral option, we don't think the government gets to push this moral by banning surrogacy.
We can encourage adoption in other ways and have all the benefits of surrogacy which we think are too important to forgo just because you want to nebulously increase adoption.
Also recognize that danny doesn't prove the causality between this, right?
Like we actually think that in general the people who are willing to adopt because of this mortal idea or because they're willing to do that personally are going to do so on both sides of the house.
Like some people just really want children with their own genes and we think that that is okay.
Moreover recognize that when he does this he places an arbitrary barrier on the idea of fertility that allows some people to access children of their own genes but forces other people to adopt on principle.
And even if it might be the more moral thing to do, we think the fact that to so asymmetrical means it's bad to force it.
With that three main arguments, first on the woman's choice.
Danny talks on and on about this coercive nature and we just think that it is not more coercive than the majority of jobs available to individuals who are less educated.
People are coerced into working generally because they have to make money, so there is no world in which I am not coerced into a job.
Like I always take a job because I need to feed myself, even if I might like it at the same time.
Let's use the example of a construction worker.
If I take a low paying and dangerous job as a construction worker because I need to feed myself and I have no alternatives, that's because I've been coerced and there are millions of people who are in that situation and yet you don't see danny trying to ban every job.
We just think this is a different kind of labor that is being exploited.
And danny talks about how much of a burden it is to be pregnant but other jobs can present even worse burdens.
On the same example of the construction worker, this is a job that can destroy your back, has a really high risk of injury, and will pay less and provide fewer benefits than surrogacy.
Given that women are going to be coerced into working either way, we think you should give them the choice of which job and have this is one of the options.
Moreover we do not think it is the right of the government to prevent women from being able to choose this.
Women can conceptualize the potential harms and weigh that against the money and medical care they will receive.
Most women who would do surrogacy are those who are either already have children or will have children soon anyway so this isn't some foreign concept to these women that the government needs to protect them from.
Our second argument is about the economic empowerment of women.
Look surrogacy pays and often it pays better than the alternatives.
And this is good because it means that instead of doing some physical labor or having to stay at home, the alternatives for women without higher education in a lot of places these women could instead be surrogates, make more money than they would get from that other job, and usually not have to do as much hard labor.
And then the money that they earn can be used for anything from furthering their economic cause in another way.
In developing countries this might be buying an animal of some sort or like putting yourself in school so you can get a degree and it could also just go towards current quality of life.
It also provides them with top notch medical care during the process since their kid is going to some rich rich person who wants a healthy child and this addresses the idea of complications because if they occur our side of the house takes care of them infinitely better than the other does.
Our third argument is about why it's good for the economy.
You just open up different market sectors, create different jobs in a variety of places, because it's not just the surrogates who get jobs from this, right?
It's also about the facilities and the people who run them as well as all the bureaucracy around setting up adoption and managing the process.
It puts money in the hands of people who often have less of it and now they can participate in that economy by buying goods and services and kind of like doing that whole downstream thing.
Moreover we think the problem on government is often going to be that they don't actually have a way to enforce stopping surrogates.
You just get shady, under the cover contracts in which surrogates are protected and not fully taken care of because the government can't actually track when this occurs.
With that, proud to oppose.