Don't protect whistleblowers.
Two main arguments, first on protecting national security.
I think the problem with a lot of danny of what danny says is that he just assumes that the majority of information that whistle blowers release are that which is harmless to like other issues of national security and other individuals within the government but potentially very important to the citizens.
So like only information about the government spying on them or only information about atrocities that have been committed.
But this just isn't the kind of material that whistleblowers come into contact with the majority of the time and we think the problem becomes when you don't have a high enough punishment for information that can genuinely harm individuals aside from just showing us what the government is doing badly.
For example I think that when the information might include the locations of certain government operatives or other like strategy plans for the military, these are things that can fundamentally change the US's ability in the long term to interact with these other countries, to protect their operatives that they have on the ground there, and that's something where you have to have the punishment be fairly high to make sure that people aren't messing up like the country and the people within it.
Like we think that the people who have the potential to whistleblow are working with ridiculously sensitive information and the majority of it just isn't that bad from what danny is saying but is really bad in terms of the impacts it can have on longtime long term strategy and individuals who work for the government who are out in the field.
And in the midst of anything problematic the government might be doing, this information must be protected.
Danny talks a lot about how people's lives are on the line and that's why we need to protect whistleblowers but this cuts both directions.
Like there are also plenty of people's lives on the line when national security secrets get spilled.
Our second argument is about upholding justice.
First we just think it is the case that whistleblowers know what they're getting into.
They sign contracts where they are sworn to silence, they get told what the punishment is going to be.
Like it is not the case that whistleblowers whistleblow without knowing what's going to happen once they come out.
Like most of these people have spent decades working with high level classified information.
They are government contractors.
They've seen what happens to other whistleblowers as well.
Like we think that this is something that is very well known and well deserved at the point that they have consented to the potential harms.
It's just a matter of making sure that they are punished in the way that the law says.
Moreover we think that we want the calculus to be absurdly high in order to be a whistleblower.
In the case of the majority of the information released by whistleblowers will have side effects that impact national security and the people within a nation in a bad way, we think that we need to have them think that it is worth all of the losses that they're going to bear as a result.
Which means the punishment should be very high so that only the most important instances of whistleblowing actually go through.
The really important whistleblowing is likely to happen on both sides of the house.
The stuff that danny says about really about human rights violations etcetera, like we see that edward snowden exists regardless of how high the punishment for whistleblowing is because we see that there are individuals who are willing to compromise their own future security because they think the secrets the government is holding are that important.
But we think that anything less than that situation should not be allowed to occur.
The problem with protecting whistleblowers is that you are sending the message to them that they can take the action without consequences.
This means that when you protect whistleblowers in a legal sense, you're just going to get more of them in the long term which is really bad because it raises the probability of them releasing information that could have really deleterious effects just because they didn't think about the decision for long enough or just because the cost benefit analysis wasn't enough to tell them that the cost was too high.
Proud to oppose.