Don't ban factory farming.
Two main arguments, first on why it is preferable economically.
Yes sam is right.
It increases the profit of corporations, but we don't think that the most important impact is that, right?
First we think that one of the most important parts that factory farming creates in society is that it keeps food prices low.
This is very important because food is fundamental to human life and productivity.
Food insecurity is already a really big problem in the united states especially in low income areas or food deserts in other countries because you have swathes of the population that really struggle with affording food and there a lot of foods that often get artificially raised in price because you have movements that advocate for organic or non-commercial farming or any number of other things.
When you can't grow as much food for the same plot of land the price of every individual item of food increases to make up for it.
And this is really problematic because when you can't produce food at a cheaper cost it then transfers on to the consumers being able to afford more options.
This is literally the most important thing in this debate because we want people to be able to afford to eat otherwise they will literally not be able to do anything else with their lives.
Insofar as government policy has to impact the individual and has to be obligated to help their own citizens first, we think that that obligation exists to the people much more than it exists to animals and animal farming industrially like factory farming will help people a lot.
Second under this though, factory farming creates jobs, more jobs in factory farming than if that was replaced with smaller farms.
So maybe there are human rights violations in these jobs as sam says but we think that's something that we can address through labor laws.
It is more important to prioritize those jobs existing at all.
Sam is worried about the hormones that factory farms use like that doesn't go away with factory farms going away right?
Like small farms also often use hormones.
These these things are non-unique from each other.
Our second argument is about why there aren't any animal rights.
We don't think that humans have any particular obligation to protect animal rights.
In the wild, animals eat each other and hurt each other without any regard for the life of the other being and if faced with a human while hungry they wouldn't pause before eating them.
And if they have the ability to grow many humans or other animals so that eating would be easier that is definitively something that animals would do.
It is unclear why humans should extend protections to these animals that don't extend protections to each other.
Moreover we just think that human rights outweigh even if animals have rights.
First because the government is making the decisions of the ban and the government has obligations their citizens first insofar as those citizens do things like pay taxes.
But also insofar as the government significantly limits citizen rights in order to like have control over them.
They can say that they're going to provide for them so that trade-off has to exist.
Like the government has to protect citizens first.
But also because humans are just going to live for a longer and have more developed consciousness, so their suffering is going to impact them more and should matter more in the span of this kind of debate.
Proud to oppose.