Three arguments as to why we ought never allow sex selection.
First we want to talk about why this disadvantages a specific gender societally, and why that is very problematic.
First let's establish when this happens.
Because we've seen a few times in the past, when society has been allowed to choose who they keep around, or in the case of china where they kind of stress having or like where they created the one child policy and prevented people from actually being able to keep more children.
And what we saw in all of these situations overwhelmingly is that parents' preference to having male babies to female babies.
And sure, we live in a world that is mildly more progressive than the past, but the one child policy happened very recently.
And more than this, we'd say that the stereotypes and desires of the generations still carry that patriarchal norm that men are going to be the ones who are going to provide for the family, they're the ones we're going to carry on the family name and that women are weaker and less capable of taking care of you when you are old.
And unless we clash with this very harsh reality, we're not going to be able to access the real meat of this debate.
So, like at the point that we literally watched female babies left out to die in the woods while their gender parity completely disappeared in china, we have to talk about what this miss distribution of genders does to a society.
When there isn't enough of one gender, sexual assault of that gender increases exponentially as we saw in china.
There's also problems with family units and people being able to find partners if enough partner simply do not exist.
We think this increases toxic masculinity norms when men feel like they have to prove themselves to the women that still exist or more or even worse have to take from those women what maybe they're unwilling to give.
You also face problems in the workplace with the treatment of that gender.
Given if there's just so much less of you that there's no one to stand up for you or no one to explain why your rights ought exist we're going to fall back into patriarchal norms and they're going to care more about the majority then the minority.
Allowing sex selection begets all of these problems and more, and were unclear on why you should even start down this path.
Are second area of clash clash is a justice claim.
Because will says that these babies have no right to exist.
Sure, none of them do.
This is an argument for allowing abortion as a general trend.
I think the problem here is when you enter that sex selection as part of it.
Because even if a child doesn't have a right to exist, it definitely has equal right to exist to the other child.
So either will is claiming that no child has a right to exist or he has to recognize that if you are going to have a child then it has an equal right to exist whether it is male or female.
So the problem in this debate specifically is that what gov is saying is that somehow men have more of a right to exist because of their gender than the other possibility, and we just don't think that exists.
Our third area of clash has to do with how it leads to the problematic propagation of norms in society.
So when you have not just no one to advocate on your behalf, but not enough of other types of you, removing even like more if your gender makes it very difficult to advocate for social change.
It's been shown over and over again that men are awful of advocating for women's rights.
First because they do not understand them, but second because they directly benefit from the structures that oppress women and put them in positions of power.
So if you make it so that the population has less voices it becomes infinitely more difficult to advocate on your behalf, especially when people didn't want to listen to you in the first place.
So we think on their side of the house you're necessarily going to have an increase in incredibly sexist behavior and sexist business plan practices.
So you're not going to push to hire more women if there's not enough women to start that conversation, because men want to have their jobs and so there's an incentive structure to actually continue sexism occurring because it economically benefits you.
But if we look at it politically we see that when men get to make decisions about women's reproductive rights they often take them away.
So for these reasons proud to oppose.