Don't ban organic foods.
Look I think this assertion that james has that like organic foods are just as bad for you as nonorganic because they just replace old chemicals with new chemicals is literal nonsense, right?
Like the standards for becoming organic that james talks about so often involve not having any chemicals of certain classes which means that if they are replacing it with something it is automatically less toxic than whatever was used before.
I also really dislike james' assertion that because the chemicals that we use on nonorganic food are okayed by the FDA and other groups for human use, this makes it a situation in which those chemicals are safe, right?
Recognize that chemicals like chlorpyrifos, a incredibly popular widely used pesticide, is something that is also incredibly dangerous confirmed by numerous studies to be neurodevelopmentally toxic to children is still on the market because we recognize that these corporations often outweigh the benefits of general society when it comes to the governments that make these kinds of decisions and the agencies that make those decisions.
So it is not the case that we are automatically safe and don't need the organic label and we think that actually it denotes a really important difference for a lot of people who want to stay away from those chemicals.
With that we have two main arguments, first on freedom of choice.
Look we think that people should be able to self determine and be happy.
Like james says that consumers are being taken advantage of and we think this is literal nonsense, right?
Anybody can google what the parameters for organic are, what organic means, and then make the decision of whether it is worth the extra money for themselves.
This just isn't a meaningful asymmetry of information because it can be easily corrected unlike many others.
Then he talks about how this drives up food costs only for the price of organic food which also costs more to produce so it makes sense.
If anything we think it drives the price of other food down since nonorganic food now has to compete with organic food for a similar consumer base.
So this means that people who can't afford organic food are getting more options of nonorganic food on our side of the house.
James' argument about shelf space is literal nonsense.
Grocery stores respond to the economic context of the regions they are in, so if they're in a really rich neighborhood where people can afford organic food they'll stock more of that and if they're not they won't because grocery stores also need to remain profitable.
And this phenomenon won't change even if james gets rid of the term organic because those other labels he says will still be allowed to exist would just replace it.
Our second argument is about the potential for payoff.
Sure there's not much research but we don't actually know to what extent nonorganic food is bad for you, and we don't think this makes it misleading the way that james says right?
Like there are some guaranteed benefits from organic food.
Like you know if you're going to be ingesting less chemicals, you know that you're usually supporting a more ethical farm like as we told you just because other chemicals have been approved doesn't mean they are safe.
Like it is completely possible that people who prefer organic food had it right all along and that it's actually significantly better for you.
And if that's true, this pays off for them and that means they should be able to weight that potential themselves.
James makes an argument about how this hurts small farms.
This is literally inaccurate right?
He's just lying to you throughout his speech.
Like this is exactly the group that benefits here because small farms often automatically use less mass production techniques so it's infinitely easier for them to fit under the classification of organic.
Like rich yuppies are always going to love small farms, it's just not an issue in this round.
But we think what is an issue is that for people who have food sensitivities or chemical sensitivities these kinds of labels are really easy ways to indicate that something is safe for them to consume and indicates more humane treatment of animals, especially for beef products where being organic means you have to be fed properly and not be overly medicated.
And if these are values that matter to you, then that labeling is really important.
Proud to oppose.