We shouldn't disband the united nations.
A lot of james' issues are mechanical.
He doesn't like the voting structure, he doesn't like the national security council.
We're down for reforms in the UN, but this is probably not a reason to abolish the united nations entirely just because you have some problems with the general voting structure.
Like we think there are reforms that can take place like creating more egalitarian voting or abolishing the national security council specifically.
And these kinds of things would probably get to the benefits that james wants without getting rid of something that we think is on net beneficial generally.
Like I think the problem massively with james' advocacy is that he doesn't actually point out a way in which the united nations is harmful.
He just talks about the ways in which it might be ineffective, but if we show you that there are some side benefits even with a massively ineffective body we still win this round.
Two main arguments, first on the way in which it promotes international collaboration.
Recognize that there are very few spheres in which you get multiple countries interfacing on a regular basis.
The united nations might have downsides and issues with efficacy, but it facilitates a regular coming together of these nations which in itself we think is ridiculously beneficial.
It allows groups to ease tensions, show citizens in nations that we are capable of collaboration in the first place, reminds countries that working together accrues benefits, and provides opportunities for interaction that doesn't require one country to reach out first and worry about potential PR and image related issues.
This in itself wins the round because if we show you that there are side benefits to having a body and simply brings these countries together, as long as there aren't active harms then it is worth it.
James is worried about illiberal countries on the on the united nations.
Like okay so maybe we're shackled with action against these countries.
Like maybe we don't get to criticize china enough but this doesn't mean that we shouldn't be calling out the other nations that the united nations does take action against, right?
Like just because some things are off limits that shouldn't be doesn't mean the nations that we do take actions against don't deserve that.
So we just don't think this is a voting issue in this round.
At most it is just a potential flaw of the UN.
Our second argument is about promoting accountability.
James says that the UN is ineffective.
Like okay but that doesn't mean that it has a negative impact.
So the fact that it does things like fund UNESCO etcetera plays for our side of the house.
James says that he wants those bodies to exist outside of the united nations, but doesn't tell us how he's planning on getting them funded.
We think that what the united nations does very well is that it establishes already agreed upon and already known funding mechanisms that allow for these beneficial organizations to exist in the first place.
So if you were to get rid of the united nations, even if UNESCO continued to exist in theory, it is incredibly unlikely that you would actually be able to get funding into it.
Especially since the massive reason that a lot of these larger powers like the united states, like china are willing to pour money into the united nations at all is because they know that they get to be active members and large voting blocks.
So once you take away that it was almost certain that you're not going to get funding for the things that james wants it for.
Moreover without bodies like the united nations, it is very easy for countries that are doing problematic or shitty things just slide under the public eye because there isn't enough broad attention paid to what is going on.
So like maybe their neighboring countries have a problem with it but no one is really informing other countries or making them care about it such that you can get a coalition acting against them.
The united nations is a sphere where human rights offenses can be highlighted even if some of them are still overlooked.
And even if there isn't amazing enforcement it least creates awareness that allows individual countries to take actions and create coalitions that shame and can do things like refuse to trade or boycott these nations.
This is always preferable to the alternative, which is basically complete inaction.
Proud to oppose.