At the beginning of his speech, yuval tries to draw this arbitrary difference between consumption and purchasing.
He says that consumption is such a personal, intimate choice that regulating it is fascism, but somehow purchasing is within the realm of the government.
The problem with this is that he's just wrong, right?
Recognize that in an ideal world, banning purchasing would ban consumption, because the only way you'd be able to get it is through purchasing it yourself.
The only reason that there is any difference is because there are loopholes that allow those who are younger to get alcohol from those who are older.
So, at the point that his arbitrary difference doesn't exist, we're unclear on why he like on the like we just don't think any of his legal argumentation stands here.
Moreover, we think that consumption is unregulable on both sides of the house, and so all that matters here is what actually happens in reality.
We also think that you can educate both sides of the house.
It's not just when you don't ban any alcohol or don't don't have any drinking age that you can tell people that alcohol is dangerous.
We think that our side of the house will have a higher like will have a real drinking age, probably at around eighteen, and you can still have massive informational campaigns starting at a younger age that tells you about the damage that alcohol can cause.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on why not having a having a drinking age doesn't actually fix the problems, rather it just pushes them to a lower age, because you don't remove the taboo.
You're still going to have parents that say you can't drink until x age, because letting your six-year-old drink is just an unreasonable and untenable system that can lead to long-term brain damage and addiction to alcohol.
So, it on their side of the house, you're still going to have twelve, thirteen, fourteen-year-olds who are going to try it and be afraid to tell their parents or the police, because they don't want to get judged for it.
They also don't change the media on their side of the house.
Recognize that the real influencer that causes people to see drinking as this glamorous thing that they should do is the fact that media everywhere portrays it as something really, really cool.
So, given they don't change the glamorization, you're still going to have people who want to mimic those party scenes on television.
We also think it's bad because currently, it's already difficult for high school kids to get alcohol because no one in high school is twenty-one.
You have in order to obtain it, you either have to steal it from parents or make someone who's older your friend.
However, if it's legal for everybody, you're going to get much more rampant of a problem in high schools because high schoolers can access it without a third party, and you make it easier for them to get a hold of it.
We also think there's more peer pressure if you can't use legality as an excuse.
Like, right now, a lot of people, when pressured into alcohol, can say, " well, I'm nervous that it's illegal, " and if they have a strong enough gut about that, they can just leave the situation afterwards.
But if legality isn't an excuse, we're unsure what these high schoolers are going to say, given that saying that you don't want it or it's not something that you enjoy is necessarily going to get you laughed at.
We also think that you have to protect youth because they can't conceptualize what this long-term addiction and the harms can be.
They don't understand, they can't conceptualize what brain damage looks like or what a lifetime of being addicted to alcohol might look like, and as such, we have to protect them until they can consent into those potential harms.
This brings us to our second independent point which is about alcohol being physically detrimental.
First, it's bad for the brain, especially when it's still developing, which anyone below the age of like twenty-five is, but especially when you're especially young, it's like worse for you to hinder that development than, say, when I'm twenty-one or twenty-two.
So we think that you have to protect them, first, because they don't because consuming alcohol can physically prevent them from being able to function in the long term, but we also want to talk about the long-term habits that it creates.
When you start drinking young, it also means you're starting habits and addictions early on, and we think that we ought be preventing youth from entering that world for as long as possible.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.