The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish no-knock warrants.
What we mean by this is that if I am a judge in an area and I have a request for a no-knock warrant, I would no longer be able to give them out, and like we just wouldn't we wouldn't make it a thing anymore.
So first, right off the top, we think it's really important to note that the benefit that no-knock warrants supposedly provide are incredibly non-unique.
At the end of the day, it's incredibly unlikely that someone is going to be able to hide a bunch of illegal activities or completely cover up everything that they're doing within the two minutes that it takes for police to bust the door in after the doorbell isn't answered.
Because recognize that in the status quo, when you have a normal warrant, it's not as if you knock on the door and they don't answer, you just walk away, right?
Like, police knock on the door, they announce that they're police officers, and they bust through if nothing else is going on.
So, we think that at the end of the day, it's incredibly unlikely that people are going to be able to hide anything away during that time, especially since it's not as if you're usually doing this with high-level criminals.
We think a lot of the time no-knock warrants are given out much more often than they should be, and you end up using them for just basic drug dealers or like very small-time criminals that it's definitely not worth being used on.
Three main areas of clash, the first on why it is undemocratic.
Recognize that humans have a right to have a right to privacy and that it extends even until you are up until the point that you are proven guilty.
The problem with no-knock warrants is that they presume your guilt before they are actually proving that you are guilty, given that they have to show that they are like doing something that is worth violating your rights.
They're already assuming that you're doing the thing they're coming in to catch you doing.
We think this is really problematic given that individuals who are often the target of no-knock warrants probably didn't do anything that should disavow them from being used for this.
We think that like oftentimes these systems are incredibly racist and incredibly biased, and so a lot of the time, it's infinitely more likely that a person of color is going to have a no-knock warrant used on them than someone else.
We also think that it elevates the fear within society.
We think that you need to let people feel safe within their rights.
You can't just have caveats that tell you that those rights go away at certain times.
Like at the end of the day, it's really difficult for someone to predict whether or not they could have a no-knock warrant used against them, because the standard is adjudicable, based on individual cases, by a judge.
So we think what this does is creates a world in which people can never predict the consequences of their actions, which is which is contrary to that of what a justice system ought be doing, especially one in a democracy such as the united states.
So we think that like this actively goes against creating a consistent judicial framework.
Our second area of clash is on why it's dangerous.
Splitting this into two areas, first about why it's dangerous for police.
Recognize that people don't expect someone to come busting in through their doors, as is what happens with a no-knock warrant.
So what this actively feels and looks like is a home intrusion.
We think you're infinitely more likely to be violent, because the response to a home intrusion and armed men busting through your door tends to be some kind of act in defense.
This is when you get wounded policemen and dead policemen, because someone had a gun and their right to bear arms was being protected, and someone was busting through their doors and invading their space.
We also think there's an element of protecting individual people.
Police are when they are running through these doors are in an incredibly excited and aroused state.
This means they're going to be infinitely more trigger-happy as they're pounding your door down than had they just come in calmly, not expecting a confrontation.
We think this is incredibly magnified for people of color because of racism and racist tendencies, especially within the police force.
We see that police force forces are already very trigger-happy when it comes to people of color, and we think that it just gets a lot worse when you're coming in with a no-knock warrant and you see someone who's trying to defend themselves, but you register that as a as someone coming at you and as a threat.
We think this is especially dangerous if there are children around because they're likely to get caught in the crossfire.
Our third area of clash is just that it increases the mistrust in the police force.
We think that a lot of the time, these are used in shady situations against the people who already don't trust the police that much, and we probably shouldn't give them more reasons to distrust us.
For these reasons, proud to propose.