The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize investigative journalism.
Just some brief modeling: what we mean by subsidize investigative journalism is that we would have individual governments put more money into either grants that would encourage existing news corporations to add more to their investigative journalism departments and subsidize specifically that portion we would provide scholarships for individuals who want to enter into investigative journalism just general acceptance and encouragement of investigative journalism as a prospering field that we would want more representative, more existing.
Three main areas of clash.
First about promoting the free press, because I think we need to recognize that in order to have any system of democracy we first have to have a functioning free press that can work within that system.
I think what's really important to recognize here as why this is true is that it is incredibly difficult to have a democracy if the people are not informed.
This is because it becomes very easy for dictators or people who want power in the region to misinform the populace using their own news sources and they don't have anyone to check against them.
So what investigative journalist does is it allows ordinary individuals who might not have power in other regards to be able to take that power from other individuals to make sure that they are being countable and democratic and inform the general populace that that general populace can then make decisions that can be in alignment with democracy as a general standard.
And so we think it's actually promoting the free press and like creating a world in which we check our politicians through investigation is fundamental to creating a democratic state in which individuals aren't oppressed in the first place.
Our second area of clash is about undercutting the tide that we have seen of rising conservative values and general fascism.
Like we think we see this in many countries with the rising support for with the election of donald trump within the united states the rising support for anti-immigration and liberal policies and in like countries like germany and france and turkey we see pena nieto maintaining power in countries like mexico and we say that this is vastly because they are able to do things that control the main television lines the main newspapers and the main radio stations of those countries such as pena nieto's ability to control the only two existing television corporations within mexico and without that they wouldn't be able to do that.
So we think that given that this is something that we see the world as a whole from suffering from right now we think becomes incredibly important specifically at this moment to combat it even if you don't think that generally this is something that promotes democratic values.
Because we think what we do on our side of the house is we provide individuals with the ability to break out of these kinds of habits, break out of this kind of like general trend and to be able to check your politicians to recognize whether you actually want the kind of policies that they turn out to be in acting.
And we think that like one of the best ways to do that is to subsidize a field such as investigative journalism where people are encouraged to go out and actually do things that can unveil large networks that are of like corrupt government officials and like inform the public to be angry about these kinds of things.
We also think this is really important in terms of keeping corporations accountable eventhough we've been talking about governments a lot.
Like I think one of the ways in which corporations are able to keep power in capitalist societies that might have very strong democratic regimes such as the united states is by doing a lot of things under wraps such is not reporting how many human rights abuses they have or having investors who are who like benefited off of the housing crisis and things like that so I think that the only way in which you ever to again that is through investigative journalism.
But finally I think it's important to recognize that encouraging people to enter these kinds of fields is also really important.
We live in a world that is becoming more and more STEM focused and although STEM fields are very important we think that we have to also encourage and show people that there are still demand for those who want to enter humanity related fields.
Proud to propose.