The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize journalism.
What this would look like would be pouring government money into major specific scholarships that would put you on the right track to go into journalism, it would provide grants to journalism groups so that they can conduct more investigative research, it would go into making free new subscriptions and free sites about the news, especially investigative journalism-type news.
Maybe it would do things like create subscriptions for free for any kind of like college student, or maybe it's based on your economic status, anything like that.
And with that, two main areas of clash: first on increasing access to free information.
Recognize that news is fundamental to our relationship with the state and the government in that it is the only way in which people can get information about the government that allows them to make educated future decisions or relate to the government on a personal level, right?
Like we think that even if the government is the most democratic thing in the world, does everything by the book, it still doesn't matter, if the people underneath that regime do not know about their government and do not access do not have access to the information that will teach them about it.
So, we think that in addition to the fact that if I don't know what's going on in politics, because I don't have access to the news, I won't be able to vote well in in elections, there's another layer that just says, " hey, if you're a democratic regime, you better be letting people know what the hell is going on behind closed doors. "
We also think that access can be a really unique problem in these situations, given that a lot of people just don't have wifi, or the money for a new subscription, or a regular internet connection, things like like very simple things, and we think that especially with the phasing out of print media, it gets more and more difficult for people to access a good, like non-biased point of view on the news that will allow them to make informed decisions into the long term.
So we actually think that getting access to journals, to people who want to learn about more things in the world, is really positive, and if you were able to increase this awareness through subsidization, you would let people see journalism as a valid media and profession into the long term.
So, rather than what's happening now, where parents will actively discourage their children from going into majors like english or journalism because they feel like it's unstable, we think we're promoting a world in which because journalism is so much more popular, because you can read different journals for free, or maybe it's subsidized, you're much more likely to actually respect the category as a whole.
Our second area of clash is about promoting truth-seeking.
Because recognize that journalism actually serves a really important democratic check in that if you want to make sure that your government is being democratic, if you want to make sure there aren't any kind of corrupt backwards deals going on in alleyways, then the only way in which you can check that or promote that is if someone is going to write something about it.
Not everyone has the means by which they can go and investigate a journal on their own or figure out a hot button issue, rather they rely on the news and the media to do that for them.
And so we actually think that one of the ways in which the government provides clear oversight over themselves is by allowing journalism to exist and not limiting it in the way that we've often seen people try to do.
And there there have actually been a few problems recently where the government is unwilling to cooperate with the journal when it is trying to go in for a story, and so we actually think that if you give it enough money to subsidize those investigations, you're going to create a working open door between government and journalists, so you don't have to jump through as many hoops next time you want to get factual evidence or factual things about like a certain case that you're working on.
We also think that the government needs to show that it is willing to subject itself to more oversight.
This is very much a trust-building activity.
Like, in recent years, we've had things like the snowden scandal, like the NSA has been doing some really shitty things, and so the only way in which we think we can actively counter that is by allowing the government to be transparent enough from the beginning that people don't have to work really hard or leave the NSA in order to show that.
We also think that journalism generally teaches people to think critically, especially about the government, which is really good in terms of creating a dynamic democracy that can adjust and change as people's needs change.
For these reasons, proud to propose.