The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish temporary employment.
What we mean by temporary employment is when companies hire people specifically as temps, AKA they are people who are just there to fill in for a short period of time while that company is looking for someone else.
They usually have incredibly short and vague contracts that basically allow them to be dismissed at any moment, and it's something that is like known by both parties that it's going to be presumably temporary.
We think that this is specifically to to temp employees, and we think that it's like very bad for them for a few reasons.
Two main areas of clash: first, on why it's bad for the individual.
Recognize that it puts individuals in situations where they cannot predict their lives or their economic future.
They could get fired at any time for any reason, and so there's no reasonable way by which they can say, " well, I have to behave well, " or " I have an incentive to behave well, " or " this is how long in the future I can plan.
Maybe I'll be able to book that vacation but probably not, because I have no clue if I'll still have a job. "
And we also think that in a lot of situations, corporations tend to lie to their temps by saying things like, " well, there's a lot of upward mobility and maybe if we like you enough, we'll keep you for the long term, " when in reality these things are really unlikely to happen.
So a lot of the time we think people end up stuck in these jobs that will not guarantee them a long-term stay, but also do not allow them to go and put their time and effort into something else, and because people are afraid of having no jobs at all, they settle for these subpar conditions.
We also just think it's really important to note that temps in a lot of ways are institutionalized scabs in that they are often used to undercut the wages of people who might be full-time employees and force them to settle for a lower wage.
Given that companies can just keep switching out temps until they get until they find someone who will take a lower wage, there's never an incentive for a company to be competitive with regards to offering someone more money for the fact that they're going to be spending their life working at their at that company.
Like there's just never a world in which they lack the labor.
We also think that it precludes people from finding more long-term jobs.
Like, because they're hanging out with this company, a lot of the time they're hanging on this promise that maybe they'll get a job with them in the long term.
It makes it really it's really unlikely that they're able to put in the time and energy to find something permanent.
So a lot of the time people just get stuck bouncing between temp agency to temp agency and company to company, because they don't actually get to settle down and look for something that is more long term.
Our second area of clash is how it's bad for companies.
First, temps are incredibly inefficient.
Because you have to switch them out so often, you have to retrain retrain someone new every single time.
It also means these individuals tend not to be protecting the long-term reputation of the company given that their wage isn't something that is subject to go up because there's no upward mobility in this job, and because they know they're going to have to leave soon, they care a lot less about getting good work done.
They're much more likely to slack, and they're much less likely to show up as often.
We also think that every time that a temp leaves there's a switch that occurs, and there's this transitional period in which other employees have to pick up the slack for this individual.
We think they do worse jobs, first, because they are not trained for them, but also because now they are spread too thin, also because they're not actually being paid for it, and so they're willing to care less about it.
So we actually think that you just end up with terribly inefficient systems that have slightly rotating constant holes in their infrastructure.
For these reasons, proud to propose.