Don't ban homeopathy.
Tim says it's good to have an informed citizenry.
We think that we can get that without a ban.
Like obviously we need good education about what types of homeopathy work versus don't but we think that instituting a ban is much too extreme of an action to solve a problem that can be easily resolved with better education and more access to hospitals.
Especially since tim's alternatives seems to be just blindly trusting hospitals and pharmaceutical companies.
Where there are massive amounts of research manipulation and unclear science as well as a massive profit incentive.
All things that would generally mock up the majority of tim's offense which is basically comes down to science is good, pharma is science and homeopathy isn't.
This is a massive misunderstanding of the way in which pharma works.
The amount of recalls that we've had of general pharmaceutical company's compounds and the way in which homeopathy has developed over time.
Two main arguments: first, on why homeopathy works.
A dislike of homeopathy is widely based on a corporate culture that likes being able to make money off of everything and wants ownerships of the techniques that make people feel better.
This doesn't mean that homeopathy doesn't work.
In fact, the majority of modern medicine are based on natural molecules and compounds that have healing effects on the human body.
There's plenty of scientific research on things involved in homeopathy, things ranging from the beneficial effects of ginger to things like ashwagandha moving the other direction to to things like iodine which were used for years before other companies came in and decided that it would be an exclusively like protective corporate thing.
A lot of cultures have long term passed down different remedies that supply these healing effects without incurring the kinds of costs that pharmaceutical companies and hospitals will leverage for a more standardized version of similar care.
Tim's worried about children.
We've think that parents wants what is best for children either way.
If the homeopathy doesn't work presumably they'll go to a hospital or they're just crazy and aren't going to take their kids to a hospital either way because they're those anti-vaccine moms that think that they're that smart and that much better than regular science.
Like tim talks about using it for cancer.
Like we just think that at the point that you're someone who would be stupid enough to use it for that intense of a disease, you're someone who's stupid enough to just not go to the hospital either way.
Like these clearly aren't the types of people that we're discussing in this round.
Crazy people are going to exist on both sides of the house.
The only question becomes what is the rationale that people take who are rational about where they're going to go, how they're going to treat themselves, so on so forth.
We also think that keeping kids out of pharma has very tangible benefits at the point that the pharmaceutical industry has massive problems with overdiagnosing, overprescribing, and oftentimes having really problematic side effects that can affect people into the long term.
So we just don't think it's always best for a parent to give their kids a shitload of pharmaceuticals as opposed to maybe using a homeopathic method first.
Our second argument is about the way in which it makes people feel better.
Like plenty of people don't trust hospitals for very justified reasons.
People of color who have been historically experimented on without their consent, women who are often told that their pain is fake and that they're being hysterical and are recommended unhelpful treatments, who are simply diagnosed incorrectly, like these people aren't going to go to a hospital either way.
So at least on our side of the house they'll have something else to rely on and use.
We also think that oftentimes homeopathy stems to some cultural inheritance or some cultural edge.
Like it puts people back in touch with those things if they happen to be people whose family is from china and they're using traditional chinese medicine or similar situations and we think that that also provides comfort insofar as it just provides a certain familiarity or maybe it's nostalgic in some ways.
Tim is worried about how this like raises costs in medicine.
Like this is just marginal at best, right?
Like first this depends on a lot of arguments of his actually being true IE he has to prove to you that homeopathy is actually causing people to be more sick in the long term and therefore go to the hospital more.
Like he has to prove it to you that this happens often enough that this actually has an impact on long term government spending.
We don't think any of that is true.
Proud to oppose.