We should abandon the insanity plea.
Basically what we mean by this is that the insanity plea would no longer be a valid plea in court.
You couldn't get a reduced sentence or acquitted based on it.
Three main area of clash.
First, we want to talk about the definition and the definitional integrity of what a crime is.
Because a crime isn't about the context, rather it's about the act.
Even if someone was incredibly poor and stole a loaf of bread, you still wouldn't say that they were excused from punishment for that crime because stealing, regardless of the context behind it, is still a crime.
Like you might feel bad for them, but they would still be in the abstract deserving of the same amount of punishment as someone who was stealing that same loaf of bread just for the sake of stealing.
So but in in the same way, being crazy while you kill someone doesn't change that you killed them.
That person is still dead, and you're still the one who committed the act.
Our criminal justice system doesn't exist to diagnose.
It exists to apply an objective standard, and it needs to be separated from society, and it needs to be something that isn't influenced by societal turns because, in the end, you're judging the act of an individual, not what they were thinking while doing it.
You need to have like they're we also think that criminally insane still means that you're a criminal, right?
Like, there are a few purposes that our justice system and jail have.
A few of them include making sure that those people are separated from society so they can't do more damage and providing retribution for the victim offended affected.
And both of these things still apply to the individual, even if they are insane.
And we think that rehab still applies.
We also think that what happens on their side of the house is that you turn trials into the push and pulls of a psychiatrist because in the end, you can find one that'll say literally anything.
Like, one side's going to bring their psychiatrist, the other's going to bring theirs, and it becomes a competition to see which one happens to sound more professional or happens to be more approachable.
We prefer to stick to as objective facts as possible when you're deciding issues of someone going to jail for a really long period of time or basically life-altering decisions.
Our second area of clash is about how the insanity plea lends itself to unjust bias.
Insanity is a perception dependent defense.
People have to have a conception of what insanity looks like, and this means that someone has to present in a way that might look prone to insanity.
So, a white woman is much more likely to get away on an insanity plea because there's a preconception in society that they are weak, hysteria prone, and fragile of mind.
But a black man would never be let go based on insanity, because they're perceived as angry and violence prone and so, regardless of whether the actual mental state of that person was insane or not, they would never get the plea because society perceives them as willful in their violence.
Celebrities often get off on it because the public eye sees them as people who are prone to cracking.
Like, we have so many stories about the celebrity who started as a kid and then went crazy when they got older that it's almost become automatic to excuse celebrity actions based on their perceived mental state.
We think that in the end, there's the insanity plea depends too much on emotional appeal for it to be an objective standard used in a court of law.
Our third area of clash is why we think that the insanity plea provides a problematic excuse.
The definition of insanity is incredibly wishy-washy.
Some people conceptualize it as like as simple as someone being gay is considered, like, possessed by demons or insane, while others see like very basic mental illnesses as being enough for insanity.
Like we think that until we've settled on a true definition and something that we can objectively measure in a quantitative way, we don't think that this is something that you can use, and you don't want someone to make it a self-justification.
Like we think recently we've had an upsurge in people that go to court and plead the insanity plea, because they see it as a route by which they can prove their innocence and decrease their jail time.
And we want to take that path away because it doesn't actually take away from the action.
For these reasons, proud to propose.