Don't subsidize distance education.
James' model is stupid.
Private universities will never have an incentive for distance education unless it is equally expensive to their normal classes.
This kind of stuff only ever applies to independent programs that are usually affiliated with a state college or community college, because these are the groups that care more about accessibility than selectivity or or don't care about profit the way that private schools do.
He's misunderstanding what the debate is about when he says, " look, we're pouring money into private institutions that are going to do this, " rather these things are never going to occur.
Private institutions will never have those incentives, and if they do make distance education more accessible, it will only be to individuals who they accept into their programs.
So either way, we just don't think that james is advocating for the right things.
Two main arguments, first on why there are better places for the money.
Government money is always a tradeoff.
If you put money into one place, it automatically means there were other potential things that now could don't benefit off of them that could have.
This places a really high burden on government's side.
They have to show why distance education is the best place for this money when it could be subsidizing literally anything else.
Ordinary education like public schools and universities are suffering a lot right now from budget cuts.
This is more important because they educate a significantly larger portion of the population than distance education does.
Also, because public education is generally better, it allows individuals to have face-to-face interactions with teachers, it has an obligation to make itself accessible and cheap, and any money set aside for education should definitely go to the public stuff first.
James has this awful argument where he talks about how there's limited space at universities.
Like, this is why there are tons of universities, right?
Because we don't expect anyone to have infinite admissions, because that would be completely unreasonable.
The reason there isn't space at any given school is because they want to maintain selectivity, so they purposefully keep their sizes low, but also because individuals don't stay completely around one area, right?
Like, individuals are spread across the country.
So, sure, maybe there are a lot of people in los angeles, and UCLA can only take some amount of those individuals, but there are also a million different colleges in los angeles and a million different colleges in the area surrounding.
So the idea that this is ever an issue of accessing a particular university is nonsense, because there are other universities you can access.
Our second argument is about why distance education in general is bad.
James talks about how distance education is good for parents or people who are switching careers, but he's got it all turned around.
We think that, actually, these are the individuals who need in-person education the most, because they're the people who need structure in their education the most.
Distance education completely lacks structure, but it gets marketed to those who need it more because they're the people who are being told, " look, just use your free time. "
But it's actually really hard to get home after doing an entire day's work and then motivate yourself to continue your education, right?
This is why you need set class times and set penalties if you don't, not just a set of lectures that you can watch whenever and make infinite excuses for not watching.
If you're someone who's poor, working a lot, has children, you need something that gets structured around your schedule, not something that tells you just do things in your free time, the way distance education does.
We're better off pouring money into in-person education, like community college programs, so that they are accessible easily and physically for people regardless of where they live.
The only reason people resort to distance education is usually because they don't have a comparably cheap alternative nearby.
Distance education is pretty much always a last resort.
If we can make regular in-person education more accessible, that will always be preferred.
James has this weird argument about this one harvard professor.
First, we think that a lot of professors who are very high quality will have published lectures online either way.
But second, we think it's not about getting taught by the person who is best in the field, rather we think it is about getting taught by someone who is in front of you, genuinely cares about you, and has an incentive to answer your questions in a way that a harvard professor, who is doing this just in their free time or having automatic updates uploaded, isn't going to care.
That only happens when you have in-person education.
Proud to oppose.