The motion for today's round is that we should ban infant circumcision, we being governments in western liberal democracies.
I think the main takeaway before I get into my points of clash is that you can still make a decision to get circumcised when you are an adult, consenting male above or at the age of eighteen.
The problem that we're trying to deal with is the fact that children currently get forced into systems where, without their consent or knowledge, they are forced into circumcision, and they cannot change it for the rest of their lives.
Two main areas of clash, the first on bodily autonomy and the undermining of consent.
Because recognize that it is a generally accepted principle that people should be able to choose what to do with their own bodies insofar as they have to live with these bodies forever, and the decisions that other people make aren't necessarily going to be short-lived and I just go on with my life after I make it.
Even if you don't buy that though, people also get to make the decisions for their own bodies, because we recognize that people who like exist within those bodies tend to be the most informed and the most capable of acting on their own behalf.
Insofar as they have to live with the decisions that they make for the rest of their lives, insofar as these decisions personally affect them in a way that it doesn't affect anyone else, incentives exist for me to take my own safety, security and desires in a much more serious way than anyone else would.
As such, we tell you that people are the only ones who are capable of making decisions on their own behalf and when it is possible, we ought wait and let them do so.
The problem is that in the status quo, parents get to make decisions that can wait until that child is eighteen, but they make them so early that the child never gets a say in the first place, even though the procedure is permanent.
But we recognize already that parents don't have these kinds of infinite rights.
In western liberal democracies, parents aren't legally allowed to force children into marriage, people children under eighteen can't get tattoos, and parents can't put their babies under plastic surgery until those children are at least sixteen and enthusiastic about getting it done.
All we're saying is that our side of the house protects you from this permanence, first, in a legally consistent manner with what we currently allow in law, but also in a morally consistent manner.
More than this though, recognize that circumcision is basically just genital mutilation.
Insofar as it is just a child who is getting a part of their body removed without that child's consent, we think it is hypocritical and arbitrary that the difference is what religions use this kind of practice and where it gets used.
It doesn't make it more consensual.
If we look down on female genital mutilation, we ought also be looking down on circumcision.
So the other side might get up here and talk about religious rights, but recognize that those rights don't extend infinitely.
We don't allow the stoning of those who engage in premarital sex or the painful sacrifice of animals or female genital mutilation.
If we recognize that we don't allow other religious practices because of their impact on those who cannot consent and the harm that they have, this is incredibly similar.
Also, recognize that circumcision injuries are very common, especially when done by religious figures with little professional training.
What this means is before I'm evil even capable of using it for the first time, I might have a deformity that I never consented into, never signed a contract to sign my rights away to, but I can never sue for.
What we're saying is just that we must protect those who can't protect themselves.
But next, let's talk about the way that it traps people into religion.
Because we tell you that many people don't choose to follow their parents religions insofar as they grow up and find that they don't think it's consistent with their own belief systems, or they just develop their own belief systems.
We think it is unjust that these people get forced to wear a mark of that religion on their bodies forever, and we think that part of the choice that we talked about is also being able to choose the religion that you want and the way in which you want to represent that religion.
We think in the same way that jews can choose to wear yarmulkes in public or not, it probably ought be your decision whether or not you want to be circumcised or not, and whether that is part of how you follow that religion.
In the end, male circumcision is fine when an adult is making that decision for themselves.
For these reasons, proud to propose.