The motion for today's debate is that we should fight gender inequality.
Two main areas of clash, first on inequality as a moral principle.
Recognize that if we win this, it is sufficient to win the round insofar as society is built on the output of moral principles.
We recognize what is right and make these the rules of our society so that we can fight against what oppressive regimes or incorrect individual action.
Without these moral principles we don't have a unified like course upon which to act which means society necessarily becomes disorganized and chaotic and insofar as we need things like laws to function we think this is incredibly important.
So recognize that people are of equal value regardless of their gender.
This is true on two fronts.
First recognize that insofar as we suffer and experience emotion in the same way this makes us of equal value because I question whether I am the brain or the in the same way that my male counterpart does and in the way that I construct myself in the same way that they do.
But also this is sort of physiological like makeup aside from like sex characteristics we have the exact same body makeup, made out of the same material, built in the same ways with the same organs.
Like recognize that even our brain is made in the same way with the same components.
There's no reason that women would be less than men patriarchal and institutional norm that allows men to maintain power and is so created by them.
We think that it would be dumb to say that one worm is different from another worm just because it happens to like have some kind of malformity or like is of like a different gender.
Like if we held two rocks up to each other just because they're different colors doesn't make them inherently different from each other and so in the same way we don't think that there's a grounds to stand upon when we say that women and men might be different.
We also think the lottery of birth is incredibly relative relevant here.
Recognize that gender is arbitrary.
We have a fifty-fifty shot of ending up a man when you're conceived.
Insofar as we wouldn't create public policy around something that is so arbitrary, we don't think that you ought to so when it comes to gender either.
Like recognize that this is exactly why racial discrimination is something that is illegal insofar as these differences are first fake as per the first component of this but second completely arbitrary what kind of race I am born as.
It's not fair that one race gets to impose rules against the other if they are exactly the same and have the same chance of being the same.
But the third let's talk about the veil of ignorance.
Recognize that we ought be treated in the way we would have wanted to be treated by others.
Like recognize that from behind the veil of ignorance if I don't know whether I'm going to end up being a man or a woman I probably want to be treated the same way in both worlds.
Insofar as this is something that stands, we don't think there is a world in which can claim morally that men and women are different.
But even if you think the moral principle isn't enough maybe you complete consequentialist and you don't care we think societally this is also something that is preferable.
Recognize first that it is good when fifty percent of the population is not disenfranchised and that when it is good when they are working at max capacity.
Recognize this is good for certain economic level.
We saw during world war two when women are finally called out of the kitchens in order to work in factories that there was a massive economic boom because you're finally allowing tons and tons of potential laborers to be exploited in the market.
We think this is really good insofar it means more productivity and more fields that are necessarily going to open to meet that need.
So we actually think that like economically and in terms of output, it's really beneficial.
But also I want to talk about innovation because recognize that people inherently think differently from each other and it's inherently good to have diversity in fields.
This has been both scientifically proven but also proven through computer simulation where we recognize that people who come from the same background are going to approach problems in the exact same manner and therefore when they get into some kind of road block they're infinitely less likely to ever find a way to get around it or to get past it.
So we actually think that you make society a lot better and less rights violative when you allow women to when you fight gender inequality.
These reasons proud to propose.