Don't disband NASA.
Three main arguments, first on why it is a necessary counterbalance to private corporations.
Sure the market can now create rockets the way that sam says previously maybe it couldn't, but those markets are always for commercial flights and weapons which is uniquely different than what NASA often does which is a lot more basic research in citizen-centered science about maybe a like long term span in space or like looking for an alternative to our own nation but like in space or just like basic research on like the environments on other planets and things like that.
And that kind of research you never ever have incentivized in the private sector because the private sector is motivated by how much money they can make off of investors and how much money they can make off of once they actually produce a good that they sell.
So they're always going to be focused on like tours to mars or like spend a night on the moon or a similar kind of commercial planning much more than they're going to be interested in things like what kind of earth like what kind of consistency or chemicals you can find on europa or similar kind of things.
And so we think that it's bad than that if you eliminate NASA and the only thing left to look into space are the groups that are looking for monetize it.
Basic research and scoping up potential alternatives for life on other planets is really important research that just doesn't get done on sam's side of the house.
Moreover though we think that sam seems really worried about private companies getting private investments, but we think that's going to happen either way because they're investing in a fundamentally different type of research.
So we just don't think that this is even an argument that functions at the point that private investors are still going to see an opportunity to make a dollar of groups like space x and aren't even going to think about groups like NASA because they're just not profit driven.
Our second argument is about spillover technology.
I want to address an argument that sam says when he tells us that NASA is less effective than corporations.
Recognize this is a hypocritical argument.
Sam says that private companies won't get money through private investment but then he says that these corporations have more money than NASA and that's what makes them more effective.
So he has to decide, these can't both be true.
But it doesn't matter anyway insofar as they fill two different niches as I already told you.
But also recognize that NASA still comes up with useful technology.
Like the ball point pen was literally a NASA discovery that allowed astronauts to use pens in space but also became incredibly useful for using pens here on earth.
So on the way to space exploration you necessarily find a lot of other useful stuff which then becomes developed by the private sector further but still gets discovered as you do basic research.
So we think that that's actually very important.
Our third argument is about global cooperation.
Things like the international space station are some of the only still standing situations of global interaction with the united states even when everything else is falling apart.
For example, even at the worst moments of like russia trump aggression or russia obama aggression, we still had russia working with the united states on the international space station because we somehow managed to maintain this like tenuous like kind string of communication at all times.
And we think it's good to have these kind of connections with other countries especially in times of tension because it shows that there's potential for cooperation.
Sam says it is undemocratic to keep funding NASA.
Look like we just think that plenty of stuff that the government funds the average person doesn't think they should right?
Like we fund national forests and if you ask the average person they'll probably tell you they don't think that the national forests need funded but we still do this because we recognize that sometimes democracy is wrong.
And since the private sector doesn't always solve we think the government then has to.
So NASA is actually very similar where it's something that is likely to be an undervalued by the p-private sector and by like the public but it's still something that the government should probably fund insofar as it is important anyway.
Proud to oppose.