The motion for today's debate is that organ donation should be mandatory.
We're modeling this in the united states and obviously no one is tearing away the organs of the living.
This will only apply to you after you are dead.
Your your body belongs first to the government and they may take your organs and donate them either to research or to any people who might need them before giving your body back to to your next of kin who can proceed with any burial or other post-death options.
Two main areas of clash.
First that when it comes to organs there are no rights to the dead.
So there are two main ways in which we usually assign rights to people or animals.
First is in a pragmatic sense.
Is it good for society or good good for the entirety of like a society or an individual to give these people their rights?
A second way in which we say there is something intrinsic to being a person, to being conscious that says because you are innately a human, innately conscious, you get this human right.
The problem is that dead people qualify for none of these.
There's nothing pragmatically good about letting them keep their organs.
In fact it is often pragmatically harmful insofar as those organs could be better used with someone who needs them more.
Dead people don't need their organs anymore regardless of what they thought they would need while they were living.
There's also no innate humanness that applies once you are dead, given that in order to experience an innate human right, you first have to have a consciousness that qualifies you for it.
Given that dead people do not have a consciousness they don't get a human right to their organs either.
So I'm assuming that so like now we've shown you that the dead have no rights to these organs, but op is going to come up here and talk about how people have a right to religious rights.
Two responses.
First it's unclear why these ought continue after death.
It seems selfish to keep your organs given that you can no longer use them, you no longer even know if you have them, and someone else is going to die because of it.
If anything, most great religions would dictate that given that you are saving a life this is a much better use of your organs in the first place.
But second, they won't know what happens with those organs either way.
Once you are dead you cannot conceptualize or understand what is happening to your body.
As such, we don't think that there is anything religiously important about what happens afterwards as long as before you were dead, the person had come to terms or thought about what where their organs are going.
But even if you think that they might have some right, we think the government can take those rights away.
Recognize that when you become part of a society, there is an unspoken social contract that occurs where the government says that you lose certain rights for the betterment of all society and you get certain protections in return.
This is why we often have gun limitations or limitations on our mobility without certain like certifications because we recognize that in order to make a safer society, you also have to give up certain rights in advance.
And we think that if you start stipulating mandatory organ donation, this simply becomes part of the social contract and people cannot rally against it because you are giving back to the society that is benefiting you.
Our second area of clash has to do with why benefits to society outweigh everything.
Even if you think the dead have some rights, they are massively outweighed by the rights of those who are still living.
We need to understand exactly how big of an issue a lack of organs is.
Thousands of people die every year and even more have to go through painful treatments such as dialysis or other life support kind of treatments while they wait for an organ on a donor list.
And more and many don't even do it for religious reasons.
A lot of people choose not to donate their organs simply because they forget to check the box or feel like they aren't very comfortable with it at the moment.
They're very arbitrary reasons that probably should not exist.
We can save these lives and also use these organs for valuable research simply by requiring it to be mandatory especially there are often needs types of research such as those that require child organs which currently never get satisfied because parents are sentimental.
But if organ donation is mandatory then you're actually going to meet these kinds of needs.
For these reasons, proud to oppose propose.