Don't fight gender inequality.
Recognizing that james modeled this as defending like radical action so I think that all our side has to show you is that you shouldn't be taking radical action, you shouldn't be reducing the taxes of women or taxing men more rather you should be still fighting for this politically, you should still have activist movements like individual women should still lobby for equal rights, but we don't think that this is something that the state ought take upon themselves to take radical action against without like the mandate of people.
Two main areas of clash, first on backlash.
Recognize that men get really really mad on their side of the house drew might say this doesn't matter because we're trying to benefit women but recognize that men matter insofar as they control the majority of political and corporate spheres that women are trying to get themselves involved in and struggling so hardly hard for.
We think that men are going to see this tax as unequal treatment and a disadvantage to them unfairly.
They'll see the money that they earn as money that they earned rightfully and this deduction as theft on the part of the state.
It unifies them against women in a really problematic way because we have a problem already where conservative men see themselves as this block against the radical feminist but even nice guys don't want to lose money in the process of fighting for others equality.
We think oftentimes where social movements lose momentum is when individuals who might be allies stop being allies because they recognize it's going to come at a direct cost to them.
It means that they're not going to pass any kind of positive equality legislation because they feel like women have already gotten their kind of they've they're reparations but they also feel like they don't want to provide them with any more step up in the world.
This means that you're not going to get any kind of like lawsuits passed that will will like fight employers that don't hire women equally, you're never going to have any kind of equal pay now because they'll see the fact that they're not taxed as much as like as as compensation for not having equal pay it's also just going to overflow into things like anti-abortion legislature we think a lot of the time men are kind of babies in this regard and they lash out very similarly to the way that children throw tantrums.
So what happens when they feel like women are getting more than their fair share is that they necessarily are going to try and disadvantage them in other ways such as like lobbying for like anti-abortion legislature we also think they'll see things like motherhood as a way to pull people pull women out of the market which will like create an incentive to denigrate women's roles in the rest of society and like reaffirm the stereotype of women having to sit at home in order to contribute.
Our second area of clash is why it's bad for women.
I think it's like kind of what our first area of clash was but our second is going to be why it's bad specifically in the corporate sphere.
First recognize that it entrenches the pay gap because men have a functional lower wage they will require a higher wage from companies to stay at the company to make up for that extra tax meanwhile women will get paid less because companies can get away with equilibrating the wage in a way that like accounts for the fact that they get taxed less and men get taxed more.
They never have an incentive to raise the wage for women or pay them the same as long as the tax exists because it always puts men at a monetary disadvantage that gives them more lobbying power with corporations.
It also means that you just hire less women.
Recognize that sexist systems always value men more than women this is in part because we have an outdated notion of men being more capable but also because a lot of these older corporations have incredibly cultures that see men as someone that you can like go drink beer with and see women as someone who has to be at home.
Given that women already have to march through a lot of glass ceilings in order to get to the positions they currently have, we think that adding a general dislike of women or like seeing them as people who are taking away from your own financial systems and like the fact that you're already valuing men more means that when you cut that in order to like have the money to pay men you're going to be more likely to cut women in order to like financially afford the wage that men require since the salaries all come out of the same well.
With that proud to oppose.