Don't further exploit green technology.
Look we already use a lot of the technology that james talks about like solar panels etcetera, and exploit suggests that there's further usage than what the market already supports ie exploited above the status quo.
We think that if green technology is better than the stuff we've been using before, we think that's something that people are going to latch onto naturally.
There are plenty of individuals in the united states who care about the environment and plenty of people who will opt for green tech once it becomes the cheaper option.
We just caution against exploiting green technology beyond market demand.
With that two main arguments, first on letting the market develop naturally.
If we're running out of oil and coal, that's something society will realize either way on our side of the house and will act accordingly.
We think that society is tilting towards green technology either way.
Global warming impacts are beginning to actualize in ways that people can actually see which is scaring large swaths of the population that were previously nonbelievers who can now see that the sea levels are rising, who can see that weather patterns have become significantly less predictable and that we've had more hurricanes than we've previously had in the last x number of years.
There's also been a social shift towards respecting nature more with the rise of hipster and environmentalist movements in pop culture and in start up culture, and there's been significantly more innovation and competition over green technology which has driven prices down.
This demonstrates a really good upward trend in terms of the way in terms of in terms of the way that we deal with green technology in society.
We think that overexploiting green technology before we hit that point naturally could have a few bad effects.
First we think it'll mobilize gas and oil companies to be even more defensive if they see a sudden big push.
This means even harder work towards electing specific politicians who would be anti-green technology.
It means trying to revamp their efforts at making themselves seem as integral to society as possible, so like the activation of a lot of worker groups that like previously have been fairly quiet but that now will be like no we need the oil jobs even louder.
Like these are the kinds of things that these companies can exploit and exacerbate without even trying that hard that in the status quo they don't because they don't feel it as an existential threat, but if efforts were to rise in exploitation of green tech they probably would.
Second, the other impact here is that green technology will be pushed out without the proper research and development which means that the market will be flooded with bad products because we're trying to exploit as many as possible, so we're not putting in the time and effort that is actually necessary towards making sure that it's actually good.
And we actually think that both of these could prevent us from adopting green technology in the long term by spooking us from going any further with it because either we like fall into the oil and gas companies' kind of like rhetoric or we're just seeing such bad outcomes that people want to kind of rely on the safer options that they've been using all along.
Our second argument is about making sure our green technology is actually green.
If you buy an old gas guzzler, it's still more environmentally friendly than a brand new tesla because the tesla production process is worse for the environment than than cars that we've had time to make the process of production more efficient for like those gas guzzlers.
And when we have this debate we have to consider the net effect on the environment not just the effect of using the product.
We come up with more energy efficient production processes by having more time with the product, so we can get the best of both worlds on our side of the house by just waiting longer.
This also takes better care of the future people that james is so worried about because it means that those people will get the best form of green tech and the best form of the impact on the environment.
For those reasons, proud to oppose.