The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize wikipedia.
What we mean by we is that it would be the united states and would probably do like a couple thousand dollars like every half a year or so like just a little bit of extra money to keep it going.
Two main areas of clash, first on why this is a low risk but incredibly high reward investment on the part of the government.
Recognize that subsidies are only bad in two situations: first when they distort the market or second when they lead to capture and like perverse incentives come into play.
This can't happen because wikipedia's for you so there's no distortionary power in subsidizing them because it's not like you're encouraging individuals to use a specific service rather you're just allowing a service that individuals were already using to continue existing but second by nature it can't be captured because it is edited by the general population so even if like now they hired dramatically higher numbers of mods given as those mods aren't allowed to add information and only edit it this first signals to individuals that there might be shady things on there and there will be a backlash but second it's just unlikely that it will accomplish anything.
Meanwhile wikipedia is one of the leading providers of free information.
It's really helpful in maintaining an educated populace because it creates a consistent no paywall avenue for people who can't afford other service other sources.
This is especially needed now since wikipedia is constantly in danger of running out of funding like we've all seen those little things when we log on that say if everyone donated three dollars we'd be able to run ourselves for years and years and years the problem is that individuals often don't donate this is a collective action problem that says like maybe someone else will but also a lot of the populations at services simply don't have the funds to donate like a lot of people who use it are college students or high school students or like people who don't have access to other forms of information that maybe would be preferable because they'd be paid.
So we think that this is like actually one of the most like best ways to to like make sure it is something that can survive and service people for a long time especially since as like the consumer base grows and as there's more information available it becomes more and more expensive to run.
Recognize also that we're living in a world where information is harder and harder to come across for free like wikipedia is usually well sourced and easy to navigate people can tell what they can trust and they can't because it has a list of all the references at the bottom and this is vastly better than what we currently have with fake news that we just can't check ourselves a lot of the time.
Our second area of clash is about fulfilling government duties because recognize that any government in in a democracy has a responsibility to uphold that democracy like and it must do so for like its own propagation.
But that can only occur with an informed populace because that's the only time that people can figure out their preferences and broadcast that via votes.
If I don't know the current events or political players I have no way of drawing actual conclusions on the subs on the subject and using my political voice.
Subsidizing free information sources is a really easy way of doing this because it provides the public with the necessary tools to inform themselves.
It would also be the cheapest thing for the US government because recognize like at most this would be a couple thousand dollars like every six months like it really wouldn't be a lot of money compared to the majority of other things because we're just using this to upkeep a free service so you're like paying a minimal amount to the people who like music you like have to pay for the for the bandwith like for the for the server itself like wikipedia is used to running on pennies this isn't something that we think that the government has to worry about it all but the other alternatives would always be way more costly.
Recognize that if the government is trying to subsidize some kind of free information other than wikipedia there would have to turn to like individual news organization like the new york times which gets a lot more costly because investigative journalism is always more expensive but also because they wouldn't be able to show preference for one news company and so would have to subsidize many of them.
Proud to propose.