The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit green technology.
What we mean by this is that we would preferably have something like government subsidies for corporations that are exploring green technology or corporations that are trying to adopt green technology.
Presumably government buildings and government branches would adopt green technology, and you'd have generally like a larger acceptance in society.
You'd probably place more taxes on things that run on oil or don't use greener tech.
Three main areas of clash: the first on the environment.
We think that this is actually the most important thing in the round because people currently are dying and suffering from global warming and global energy increase.
Like even in the status quo, we're seeing that the oceans are slowly being pushed up the coastlines, storms are being created that destroy entire cities.
We think that the hurricane in texas is actually a really good example of a country of a state that hadn't really been impacted for a long time by storms of this size, but because of global warming, it's actually causing crises even in areas that hadn't previously been affected.
Meanwhile, areas like madagascar, areas like island countries, are suffering much more because their entire like borders are coasts, and so they're actually in a lot more danger and are suffering much more.
And so we think that actually preventing this suffering is the most important thing, given that it is so widespread and so immediate.
So, the way in which green technology protects the environment is by making cleaner energy.
Even if you're just adding green technology on to something that burns oil, you're making it so that the emissions coming from it are no longer as bad.
But green technology also encompasses doing things like creating green cars and making it so that your cars aren't emitting as much, and it prevents those kind of rollover effects in which suddenly you have smog hanging over the cities or like things like that.
So, our second area of clash is about economics, because oil is incredibly expensive.
But more important than that, it's foreign, which means that you're tied to other countries and those countries' mood swings in order to provide energy for your entire population.
We think really good example of a time where this really bit us in the butt is in nineteen seventy three when the middle east was unhappy with the way that we were treating israel and said, " hey, we don't like that.
And since you're not like changing how you're treating them, we're just not going to sell you oil for a little bit. "
We think moments like those really show us why the need for more green technology is is like so important because, in the end, being dependent on other countries means that it is just up to their preferences whether to completely destroy our productivity for like the foreseeable future.
Like if the middle east decided to stop selling us oil at this moment, completely, it would be very difficult for us to continue functioning as a country, and we don't think this is something that is tenable in the long term.
Meanwhile, green technology is actually preferable economically.
First, recognize that oil is running out, so even if the mood swings aren't happening, you are having a decrease in supply, which means an increase in price.
But when you have green technology, you're stimulating innovation, and you're making it something that humans can build.
So this is something that is an economic impetus, and you're actually creating corporations within the united states that can like trade with each other and create jobs.
But most importantly, you're attaining energy independence.
That means that your state can function without depending on others for technology or for the actual oil.
Our third area of clash is about how this is a response to population growth.
Lots of people are populating the earth right now.
We know that population growth is a pretty big problem, and this billions and billions of people need more energy than we currently are producing.
Like, we know that we're running out of energy right now and we're running out of oil, and so we think that green technology actually solves for this really well and is actually the only option that we have if we don't want to destroy the planet and ourselves.
For these reasons, proud to propose.