Don't legalize public nudity.
Recognize that first and foremost that I want to establish a distinction between public nudity versus other kinds of movements like free the nipple and things like that.
We think that we are fine with a world in which we lobby for equal rights for women to not wear a bra, but we are not fine with complete nudity that allows individuals to not wear any clothes in public spaces.
Recognize that in the status quo, certain public spaces have regulations both on what men women can wear ie think of no shoes no shirt no service kind of signs in shops that are located around public spaces that often require individuals to wear clothing.
But moreover, we think that there are general laws currently in the status quo against public indecency and public nudity so we think that we would still follow those laws when it comes to like conventions of revealing your lower genitalia but we would not perhaps want those laws followed in situations where women are inappropriate areas taking off their bras things like about.
Two main arguments, first on hygiene.
Recognize first and foremost that this is just not a hygienic system, like part of the reason that individuals wear underwear and wear pants is because human bodies produce an awful amount of fluids as they exist, moving from sweat to any number of other excretions and these are things we prefer to be contained because when you spread this from person to person that is how illnesses spread.
See the world before we did things like ask people to wash their hands so we had massive amounts of disease outbreaks literally just because of that simple factor of individuals not washing their hands after using the bathroom.
Think about all the things that our bare butts touch when we do things like use public restrooms or exist within our own spheres.
These are all things that now get transferred from person to person infinitely more easily than simply when we are wearing clothes over that to keep that contained.
I think the other problem here is that when you are occupying these kinds of public spaces, you're occupying areas with tons and tons of people.
So of course no one is going to be angry if you're on private land and go skinny dipping or something similar or choose to be a nudist colony, but the amount of people you're exposing at that point is infinitely less than if you just going out in the middle of times square without wearing any clothing.
Tim talks a lot about creating body norms, but recognize that those things can be created independently of being legalizing public nudity.
Like we can talk about why we ought not fat shame individuals or why we should love our bodies regardless of their shape or why sexuality is not limited to skinny women, but we don't have to do that by legalizing public nudity.
Those things can happen independently, not to mention that the current standards for what is considered clothing is relatively slim.
So individuals can do things like wear sports bras in public, wear crop tops or wear really short shorts and we would still be okay with that.
We think that's enough of you being able to express yourself.
Our second argument is about discomfort.
Recognize that like when tim talks about how this is a victimless crime, he seems to completely ignore the entire point of these kinds of things.
Like the reason we have broad protections for the public is because we see that the public and members of that public are the victims of these kinds of crimes.
Recognize that laws are socially constructed by nature ie when a majority of individuals has a stigma against something or doesn't want something to happen or feels uncomfortable, oftentimes if that doesn't violate someone's freedom to a large extent those laws are enacted.
So when we say that like oh there are laws against public nudity, that exists because a vast majority of the population said look we are deeply uncomfortable with these kinds of things maybe we ought not have that.
We think their rights to feel comfortable definitely outweighs the right of individuals to go around naked, especially when they can do that in the comfort of their own home.
Like I think government had to prove that it is so central to their self actualization that it is more important than protecting other groups of individuals.
Recognize that we just think it's a general right for people to not have to look at other people's naked bodies in public like whether it is because you are religious these things are actually deeply in embedded in your beliefs or because you're someone who's a sexual assault survivor or because you're the parent of a child who you don't want exposed to these, these are rights that we ought be respecting.
Proud to oppose.