Don't legalize sex selection.
Tim says that we can't change the mentality of society and we think this is a very problematic way of thinking because this would be justification for maintaining systems like slavery or the subjugation of women in other ways, where we say look this is so entrenched in the way that we think, so entrenched in our like social fabric that there is no point in fighting against it.
And the problem there is that it doesn't actually protect the individuals whose rights are being violated, it just says well given how long it's been that your rights have been being violated I guess we'll continue doing them.
Half we have to recognize that even if a toxic system is hard to change, it is very important to continue to try and even more important to not affirm it by doing things like legalizing the bad actions that are part of those systems, such as sex selection.
The kind of language that tim uses is completely defeatist.
It assumes that we will just never be able to do these positive social things in a world where we've been really successful at changing a lot of social norms.
So I just think it is both both a disservice to humanity in terms of the things that we can accomplish and unjust to the victims of these kinds of systems.
As it stands, sex selection in the status quo is used to discriminate against women based on sexist traditions and conceptions in society that place men as more valuable than women to a family.
When you allow sex selection, you allow people to legally exert their personal bias on their own children.
Three arguments, first on embedding sexism in society.
When the government legalizes something like this, they send a message to society that the ideas that lead them toward sex selection are valid.
It allows the tradition of using sex selection to continue.
Look minor sadness about having daughters is fine.
We think that tim is wrong, it's not the case that these children are unwanted into the long term.
You realize you have a daughter, maybe you're a little bit disappointed, but these things fade over time and it is still your blood and still someone that you care for after a while.
But also we just think the value of stopping sexism in the long term matters much more than some resentment in the short term.
Sexism is generally trending downward in society, and when you legalize something like this, you stop that trend.
You boost back the sexism upwards.
We think this is more important than any claim to bodily autonomy because embedding sexism prevents women from accessing bodily autonomy in the long term by normalizing their inferiority in saying that your rights are not nearly as important as mens'.
Our second argument is about creating an unsafe society for women in the long term.
Even if there are things like resentment now, this makes it so that people will feel that disgust for women forever by reinforcing male dominated society over and over.
First it also raises things like sexual assault levels.
When you have massive numbers of men as compared to women, you're going to have significantly more sexual assault because you have more male toxicity and male dominated spheres, but also because there are simply not enough women for men to find suitable partners in the long term which raises violence against women just statistically.
It also prevents women from being able to move up in the workplace or in education and thus stunts their development because they'll be constantly competing with these men who make all these decisions as well.
And we think this is actually just matters a lot more than any future standing of these kids in society that tim is so worried about because even if they are unwanted or treated poorly at least there are not one of the few children in a world that is mostly the other gender that will occur on his side of the house.
We weigh society and future society as more important here because of how hostile it will be towards women if we don't make some sacrifices and face some challenges now.
Our third argument is that it is generally bad for society.
Like women are good at things, right?
Like a lot of the time you can have really intelligent women who contribute to spheres whether they're like intellectual or social and we also just think it's really bad to create these societal disbalances because it makes cesspools of hyper-masculinity where men hurt both each other and themselves through this kind of like toxicity and toxic behavior that propagates.
Like at the end of the day, women are both a balancing force in society and personally just good for society.
Proud to oppose.