Don't abolish the patriot act.
Two main areas of clash, first about stopping terrorism.
Recognize that this is of ultimate importance because terrorist attacks motivate incredibly oppressive racist policies, cost domestic lives, and create literal wars that are infinite worse rights violations than anything we can say about our basic civil liberties that might be moderately violated by people tapping our phone lines sometimes.
Like at the end of the day, we think that the millions and millions of people who die and therefore don't get access to the right to life, who get like have literal wars started in their countries like countries who have their sovereignty ruined, all of these rights outweigh the harmless phone tapping that occurs where no one actually gets hurt by the privacy violation.
Two main ways in which we stop the terrorist attacks.
First like we think that pure surveillance is actually incredibly effective and good, like it catches attacks preemptively in a way that literally nothing else could insofar as there is no way for us to see the way in which people are planning unless we are able to phone tap lines.
Recognize that the majority of terrorists at this point are intelligent enough not to be obvious about their planning and not to give us probable cause in the first place.
What this means is the only way in which we would get access to what they have like what they are planning is through relatively shady means that allow us to see the planning as it happens.
But also recognize that this doesn't impact other individuals observed like we think that these rights violations of privacy only matter insofar as individuals feel violated but we think that this only you only feel violated when an actual harm occurs and we don't think that there is a tangible harm that government is going to be able to point to when we recognize that these like the majority of these lines unless you're a terrorist just get listened to a few times during like specific words getting spoken and then you move on.
This is like saying data mining from google is a privacy violation but we recognize that it's not like also we just think that the government has that the government like doesn't act unless you have a reason to and insofar as that's true we're unclear how this privacy violation ever gets impacted it on to someone who isn't deserving.
But also the second reason that it stops terrorism is that it's the only real mechanism that allows us to go after financial means first.
It gives us the ability to freeze assets both internationally and within our own country which really important because it is the most effective way to stop terrorist organizations like detaining an individual just means that they find a replacement.
Individuals are fungible but money is less replaceable, it prevents action and mobility insofar as I literally need to be able to pay for weapons, I need to be able to pay for train and like plane tickets to get myself where I need to go, and without those I cannot accomplish what I set out to do.
This allows you to target terrorists at their core and disable organizations from being effective and stop attacks because you can catch the planning early.
We also just don't think it's unconstitutional insofar this privacy does not exist in the ethereal but only insofar as it impacts the individual but it's also a fake right created without any actual wording in the constitution.
But our second area of clash is about pacifying the right.
The patriot act was passed to make people feel safer when during a time of incredible turmoil recognize that when people feel scared they want to feel like the government is taking action, protecting their interests, and it's not as if the demand magically goes away just because the act doesn't come in place.
It just means that people see the government is not strong enough and lashes out in different ways.
Without the patriot act, people would still push for these racist policies.
There'd be more overt values and violence and the government and governments that previously didn't support segregation like we see this in the example where governments who like when the government didn't support segregation people rallied and threatened the students that were attempting to desegregate.
We think what happens on their side of the house is that there are massive decreased trust in the government which means that the government as seen as ineffective and you decrease political activity which is really bad.
So at the point that you're actually increasing violence against these individuals where most are already we think the patriot act both increases security and prevents people from being upset.
For these reasons proud to oppose.