We should not abolish the electoral college.
Two main areas of clash the first on preventing tyranny of the majority.
Recognize that the electoral college requires politicians to appeal to all regions regardless of their population size.
This is important because different regions have different priorities.
Sure cities have the most people but all the people within them tend to have and share the same needs and political preferences.
Like we know that the majority of large cities are overwhelmingly liberal and overwhelmingly in favor of things like higher welfare policies and have like vested interest in business and like marketing infrastructure.
Just because those are the areas they need and those are the demands of the region.
This is a stark difference from more rural areas that have less people but also have very very different needs.
However as based on the like if we didn't have the electoral college there would just be much less representation of those needs which is really bad because if the people in the rural areas aren't given an access by which they can advocate for things like tax cuts for farms or like maybe they really like really need like different housing policies like there's no one to give those interests out then there's no incentive to listen to them in any world.
And we think that an important thing that the electoral college accomplishes is that it forces campaigners and politicians to pay attention to smaller populations.
Like without it states like wyoming would never matter because no one has because and no one would argue for their policies because they simply don't have enough people to ever justify electorate like any kind of representation since it basically makes campaigning into this game of vying for the majority opinion.
We don't want these massively populated cities controlling everything because the people in those rural areas do matter and their needs do matter.
So we actually prefer a world in which even if it like sometimes ignores the needs of like the desire of the majority it at least fulfills the needs of both.
Insofar as both would have access to like showing how they feel.
Our second area of clash is about promoting equal access of information across the country.
Because recognize that if you're not lobbying for someone's like individual vote in a non electoral college system there isn't actually an incentive to campaign in given areas that don't have any like any population big enough for you to sway to get you votes.
This means that there's not actually any incentive to provide any information there like there's no world in which the next person running for president goes to wyoming to campaign and give out pamphlets because there's no one there to campaign to.
Like they're not going to represent a large enough chunk of the population for them to waste time with them.
And we think that democracy relies on citizens having information about the government workings in order to be able to draw educated opinion and continually consent into being governed.
Like we think the government citizen relationship is a constant tug of war between oppression and balance of equality and without information we think you be can you begin to edge dangerously in to being unfair and being unequal on their side of the house.
We also think that what this means is that you need to be continually providing an incentive for information to be disseminated otherwise you lapse into undemocratic tendencies in which large swaths of the country are completely ignored and become information deserts in which no one actually has access to real news or has easy enough access to real news for it to matter.
So as such we prefer a world in which the electoral college does exist and doesn't automatically invalidate these individual's votes.
For these reasons proud to oppose.