Don't abolish needle exchange programs.
Danny talks a lot about how if we have needle exchange programs, the general populace and politicians won't be willing to spend money on addicts in other ways.
The problem is that this is already happening in the status quo, right?
Like, politicians and the general populace already don't care about addicts, already don't want to put public money into it.
So insofar as we're not doing these other programs anyway, we think that we might as well do this one.
Moreover, we think that out of the other options in which you can help addicts, needle exchange programs are one of the ones that are most important.
Right?
Like making sure that if you can't change those addicts, you can at least make sure that they're not contracting mass amount of diseases and allowing those to overflow into the general public at the same time.
That is something that we think is important enough, even if it comes at the tradeoff of some other programs.
Two main arguments: first, on preventing the spread of blood borne illnesses.
The best thing about needle exchange program is that they protect innocent people who never took drugs in the first place.
In the status quo, old needles often get left in public parks, under bridges, along sidewalks.
These are places where children run around and play and where adults spend a lot of time.
We need to minimize the risk of the people who interact with those areas from getting harmed.
It is good enough to win the round already because at the end of the day, the number of drug users is going to stay the same either way.
It's just a question of how safely they dispose of those needles, and the best part about needle exchange programs is that in order to get clean needles, you have to bring the ones that you've already used.
You can't just acquire needles for like for yourself without trading something in, and we think that this is a way in which you can actually make addicts hold responsibility for the kind of risk that they might odd to society and forces them to do some work.
Our second argument is about helping addicts.
I think this argument danny has about how we're encouraging drug use is actually nonsense.
This is just not the way it works because these buildings are relatively likely to be an isolated areas, since people don't like large concentrations of drug addicts in an area that's close by to them.
So it's not as if people are actually seeing like drug addicts getting treated well or like having it be a preferential thing in society, but also this just isn't the way that the weighing calculus works.
People don't start doing drugs because they have clean needles available.
As long as we're still stigmatizing drug use more generally, as long as we're saying drugs are bad, more generally, and as long as schools do things like dare programs and other similar things, drugs are still going to be seen as harmful.
It is only after one person is addicted that we think that needle exchange programs become important, right?
Because that person is going to do drugs either way, because they are addicts and their chemical pathways in their brains have been rewired to force them to do these kinds of things, and most of them don't have access to rehabilitation centers or maybe just don't want them.
The only question becomes do they do the drugs drugs safely or not?
It also just should be the goal like as long as the goal still continues to be getting people clean, this just like all doesn't matter.
Moreover, we think that it's important because when people go into these clinics where they exchange their needles, they're forced to interface with doctors.
They're forced to interface with nurses.
And this doesn't occur in the status quo, since a lot of addicts end up homeless and avoid any social institutions.
You can cover your needle exchange program buildings in advertisements for rehab or provide addicts with a list of options every time they come.
You can even build exchange programs near rehab facilities to make it even easier for people.
And regardless of how you do this, all of it is better than what is occurring in the status quo.
Proud to oppose.