The problem with danny's advocacy is that he places a lot of pressure on this idea of consent and consenting into systems before you are born and why parents ought not ruin that consent.
Unfortunately, it's not possible to actually have a debate about this ambiguous principle and win, because in the end we don't live in a world in which we value ambiguous consent.
We live in a world in which we value consent because if you do not respect consent, there are bad impacts, and there are decisions that people should be able to make for themselves because they know themselves better.
The problem is that danny has not shown a single reason that circumcision is harmful.
He hasn't told us about any specific pleasure centers in the foreskin, he hasn't told us about these potential harms to health and, in the end, all he has said is that there are there is a violation of consent.
In the end, all we see is a non-harmful system with many potential benefits and honestly, there are so many procedures that parents are allowed to put their children under when they are very small, without their children's explicit consent, that we're unclear as to why circumcision deserves some kind of special pedestal.
We allow children we allow parents to pierce their children's ears, do stem cell harvests, and other like low level medical procedures.
Two main areas of clash, first on why it is factually beneficial and culturally enriching to have circumcision.
It's not the case that there are no health benefits.
It's been proven that circumcision helps to prevent STDs and is much more hygienic, on net.
Like men are just bad at cleaning their penises, and I don't think that this is a reason to suddenly like continue to let like let and obviously they should be trained to do so, but in the case that they don't, I think that circumcision is actually incredibly beneficial.
But more than this, I don't think you can just pooh-pooh away this religion.
Danny is creating a world in which children can never choose to have a full relationships with god without choosing to undergo a very painful late-life surgery.
This is infinitely worse than not having a foreskin, because there are no harms to not having this foreskin.
Thus, you should allow for the potential of an infinitely fulfilling relationship with god, given that it comes at a incredibly low cost.
More than this, we think that the whole reason that we have parents in the first place is to be able to weigh between these kinds of decisions for the child when the child is not old enough to make those decisions themselves.
This brings me to my second area of clash which has to do with the rights of the parents.
Recognize that some procedures have to happen when you are small.
Circumcision is one of them because it is much less painful to have your foreskin cut off when you are younger, and it is much less likely to impede your future development because your skin is more elastic, you've got you have better immunity, and it's like more you have better your stem cells are still there and so regrowth is much faster.
When you are older, you are much more likely to have side effects, it's a much more difficult decision to make in the first place, and thus circumcision is almost uniquely possible when someone is very young.
We let parents make these decisions and judgments because the kids can't at this time.
The one-year-old just cannot respond to the question, " do you want a circumcision? "
We recognize also that parents often get to choose the development of their child and change that like change the way that they develop.
Like I think the fact that my parents get to choose my brother's education and, literally, the environments in which he stays in, that mold the entirety of the rest of his personality, get to choose what exposures he has to social media, are infinitely more important than whether or not he got his foreskin cut which, in the end, has a marginal effect on his development, except in situations of religion, and we've already accepted that parents have a choice in religion as well.
More than this, we think it's really important to recognize that for religious parents, it is problematic that government is forcing them into a situation in which they feel like they are sending their child to hell by not maintaining something like the bris, which is the jewish agreement or something like that.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.