This house would ban fast food.
What we mean by this is that areas with drive-throughs, restaurant chains like mcdonald's and burger king, any restaurant that claims to be a fast food restaurant and advocates for things like drive-throughs and very fatty meals in very small packages, we would like to ban.
Two main areas of clash, the first on obesity as an epidemic.
Recognize that this current generation is the first that is expected to have a shorter life expectancy than the previous generation.
This is mostly due to the diets that we have the the previous generation did not have to deal with.
So diets that are very high in saturated fats, or unsaturated fats and trans fats, and like diets that have a lot of sugars and a lot of carbs and specifically diets that package these large amounts of bad ingredients into very small packages that make us feel like we're eating a smaller amount of food than we actually are.
This requires paternalism because you can't internalize the long term harms.
So I'm sitting here eating a cheeseburger and I think that all this means is that I'll exercise an extra hour tonight, but the reality is that these preservatives inside it are building up inside the tissues of my body and in the long term it's doing things like causing heart disease and cancer.
More than this though, in the short term it's a lot harder to exercise off fast food than less processed food or food coming from better restaurants or from the grocery store.
This is because your packaging it's basically what I said earlier you are taking large amounts of calories and large amounts of fats and putting it into a very small package that makes you feel you're consuming less of it.
So we think that the alternative world in which you don't ban fast food is essentially the one that we're beginning to see in the status quo.
Heart disease and heart attacks continue to go up, diabetes, people are dying younger, and you're seeing larger and larger rates of obesity, especially in young children and like school age children that that prevents them from being able to be fully mobile and enjoy like being active.
Our secondary of clash has to do with the dangerous way in which fast food restaurants target populations because people who can afford it usually don't eat very much fast food.
They tend to buy their own groceries and like eat at better restaurants because in the end, fast food doesn't taste the best.
It's just a means of getting food into your body.
This means that fast food restaurants specifically place themselves into poorer areas because they know that these are the people who are going to not be able to afford something that is better.
The problem with this is that there are chains that are willing to stay within poorer areas that aren't necessarily only fast food.
So we see initiatives that specifically put fresh food like produce grocery stores in poorer in food deserts and you see bowman pop shops that pop up that like want to feed the residents of that area but all of these things get crowded out because they can't compete with how cheap fast food restaurants are.
So we think that when you ban fast food you allow for these healthier alternatives to remain in these areas because the demand for food, and the demand to eat out is always going to exist.
The question is how much are people going to be willing to pay for it and when you and we think that when you have no cheaper alternative, then you're going to have people eating healthier by requirement.
More than this though, we think that this is the equivalent of economic discrimination.
How much you earn shouldn't dictate your food options which then translate into your long term health options.
Just because I might have grown up in a poorer neighborhood than my friend, shouldn't mean that I am guaranteed to get diabetes earlier or die sooner.
So we think that when fast foods are essentially propagating this kind of discrimination, it ought be banned in order to protect people.
For these reasons proud to propose.