I think it's funny that will advocates for the deconstruction of the two-party system on the basis of efficiency.
Recognize that when you add the number of competitors and add the number of voices, with the addition of new ideas and new discourse also comes the the addition of gridlock.
As such, two main areas of clash: the first on why will on why a more than two-party system is terribly inefficient.
We think that it's hard to come up with a functional system right now.
We think the problem in the status quo is oftentimes that congressmen spend days and days discussing the same proposal and never actually get anything done.
We think this problem gets exacerbated on their side of the house because when you only have two parties, you only have to make a compromise between two groups.
But when that compromise has to encompass three, four, five, up and up amounts of groups, then necessarily the proposal gets longer, the discussion gets longer and more so, more people have to sacrifice what they want in order to get a final proposal on the table.
The problem with their side is that it is rare for a group to want to sacrifice what they desire and compromises are hard to come by.
When they add the number of voices and the number of parties, they only add the number of people who need to compromise, when all of them are unwilling to do so.
More than this though, it's good that people have to choose what's more important, because we think that this perfect system that will advocates for doesn't exist in reality.
It's not the case that I, as someone who believes in reproductive rights and gun rights, am going to even if I find a party that will represent that, am ever going to find a policy that represents that on a widescale basis, because it is unlikely that there are large enough numbers of me to have this double-pronged issue represented on a wider scale.
We think, as such, it's good that people pick their politicians and prioritize their views and desires based on how big the big of a deal they think they are.
Is it more important to have gun rights or more important to have reproductive rights?
These are questions we want them to ask.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think it ends why is the multiparty system ends with even fewer preferences being actualized?
Because we think that will's examples in trusting, let's say, I believe in both gun rights and reproductive rights.
But in the end, there aren't enough others like me to support such an issue, and so all I'm doing is splitting the vote rather than prioritizing.
We think we saw this really well with bernie sanders and jill stein and other third-party candidates in the recent american election.
All that happened is that people who would have voted democrat but didn't believe in hillary clinton enough, but definitely knew they didn't want trump, voted for third-party candidates in order to ease their own consciousness.
The problem is that this kind of easing of consciousness is superficial, and trump still got elected.
We think that oftentimes politics is a game of prioritizing the lesser evil, and we're willing to sacrifice some level of perfection in order to have a functional system, IE, trump is probably a bad idea.
We think that splitting the vote, therefore, is actively harmful in so far as third parties are very rarely actually able to dilute power from those that are already bigger than them.
We think another problem with the multiparty system is that it is impossible to combat a another large organization unless you are equally powerful.
What this means is that the addition of smaller parties only only is only meaningful when those smaller parties can combat those that are bigger.
But they never can, because the bigger ones have more resources, a larger populace.
It means on their side of the house all you get is a lack of strength in numbers, where there are now a bunch of small parties, essentially broken up from the big one because you're splitting the vote, but maybe the republicans were smart and kept their shit together and suddenly, even though you have the democrats versus the republican democrats versus the democratic republicans, you have one republican party and they can just sweep through and take over policy.
This is the world that will has to deal with.
Proud to oppose.