So I think the first thing that needs to happen in this round is a clarification as to what gets what gets to count as organic food and what doesn't, because sam pretends that somehow the things that get to be organic food are anything that factories stick an organic sticker on as long as they're not genetically modified.
But this just isn't true.
There are like rigorous standards that say " don't use pesticides ", "don't use insecticides ", " don't place them in overly non-organic fertilizer. "
Organic foods have to jump through a lot of hoops, and we think that it is the right of the person and the corporation to say: hey, like this is organic.
If you prefer this to things where you cannot necessarily predict what was used on your produce, then buy it.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the rights in a capitalist economy.
Recognize that in like capitalist economies where we say that the market will solve and whatever is being sold is ethical and like people buy it, then it's worth it, corporations should be allowed to sell what they find profitable, within legal safety restrictions.
We see this is the only products that ever get banned in states like the US are those with visible health effects on the consumer, things like toys containing lead paint, anything containing incredibly poisonous chemicals, anything that explodes.
So at the point that organic food doesn't fit into any of these contexts, sam hasn't shown us a distinct harm to the consumer other than saying that maybe we get less crops because of herd immunity, we don't think that you can ban the like stickers and the sale of organic food.
So, also though, we think it is the right of the consumer to choose what is going to go into their body and what they prefer to purchase.
Many people simply prefer the flavor of organic food, whether it is real or an imagined difference.
Many do it for both the real and imagined health benefits.
The response to this is to rub is to run better informative campaigns, not to take away their autonomy and say that you cannot have this.
We prefer a world in which people can maximize their autonomy insofar as this is the only way to actually achieve democracy.
People know what is better for them more than the government does and even if they're wrong, we don't think it's the place of the government to say like to prevent them from doing anything like that, and that ends up with infinite legislature which is clearly untenable.
We also thinks that we also think that organic food often does avoid the associated issues of pesticides, etcetera, and banning them leaves people with allergies or sensitivities, stranded in situations where they just can't access the food they need in order to be healthy, in order to avoid side effects.
Are second area of clash is to why this is actually probably beneficial to GMOs or at least doesn't harm them.
Yes, organic food is a niche area which primarily rich consumers ascribe to.
What this means is that no government organization is sending organic food to starving countries.
There's not going to be any world in which somehow they're competing for the same consumers, because those who are buying organic food are always going to be a separate class of people than those who value the money more than they value the like imaginary sticker.
This means there's actually very little impact on the economics of non-organic food when you have organic food.
If anything, it makes it more widely available and preferable like to and and actually preferable, because it makes it cheaper to produce and to sell.
We think that it's good then that people can rely on like GN- non on genetically modified food being regularly cheap and consistently evenly priced.
And we also think this actually encourages more of the use of this for charities because no one's going to be buying something incredibly expensive, but no one is going to ever get rid of genetically modified food either because there are always going to be people in society who cannot afford things that are labeled organic.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.