Like any governmental system social security has its problems.
But just because something is broken doesn't mean you get rid of it completely.
Our side of the house isn't against finding solutions to the problems that plague social security system.
Some of these are incredibly simple: we need to tax the income that is over three three hundred twenty five thousand a year, and other such solutions.
We can solve these problems without destroying the system.
Two main areas of clash: first on why privatized social security is dangerous.
Privatizing social security depends on corporations.
Because in the end, because what you're doing is essentially investing these money in this money in private accounts and thus investing it in different corporations and allowing different corporation to hold this money and invest it for you, rather than putting it into accounts that accrue interest through the government.
We need to so the the problem with this is that corporations are inherently unstable.
They can go under and go bankrupt, they can misuse the funds illegally.
The only trustworthy system for social security is the government because it's guaranteed to actually keep this money in these accounts for the future and doesn't have like weird like inaccessible loopholes and nontransparent systems.
We also think that the problem here is that it strengthens wall street.
Because when you create private accounts for every single person in the united states, you're also creating billions of dollars of revenue in management fees.
This is a very consistent revenue insofar as people keep being born.
So you're actually just strengthening the hold that wall street has on economics and on our markets.
More so, you actually put us at the whim of the stock market.
Because government trust fund rates might be low but they're incredibly stable and incredibly consistent.
But in private accounts the rates depend on the stock prices.
Those, so if suddenly the stock market drops, and during like during a depression, it screws those who return, retire during that economic downturn because it essentially devalues the money that they've put in.
The government side creates a world in which it is possible to actually end up with less money than you put into these private accounts in the first place because of the booms and busts of the stock market.
Our second area of clash has to do with why equal retirement benefits are both like philosophically necessary, if we're going to have benefits are all, but also why it's a social good.
We understand that in the status quo the market devalues certain types of jobs.
This is why a like hamburger cook might make less money than a doctor.
The problem with this is the the problem with with abolishing the social security tax is that it doesn't just affect what someone is doing while they're working, rather it devalues their retirement.
The problem with this is that everyone is retiring equally and doing an equal amount of non-work, and thus you should probably be able to have the same amount of money.
We also think that if you count in the net effort that people put into these systems, it is often the case that those who had poorer earning jobs actually had a lot harder work on net, and thus probably deserve a good retirement as well.
However, on their side of the house you create a world in which people have to choose their investments themselves and choose oftentimes whether to invest at all.
The problem with this is that a lot of people simply do not have the fiscal knowledge to invest in a way that is stable or secure, and might end up losing this money rather than actually having like a safety cushion into the future.
We also think that you put people into situations in which they can choose between current fiscal security verses future retirement.
These, in these situations these people need to be paternalized in order to have like a future life after retirement.
Retirement is also a social good in that after you retire you're more likely to spend money on simple goods which is good for the economy, you're going to have less health risks which is good for our for our health care systems, and you are generally going to leave more jobs behind for the next generation of people.
For these reasons proud to oppose.