The motion for today's round is we should increase gun control.
By we meaning the united states government and by increasing gun control we refer to things like increasing licensing and background checks for gun owners, regulating the types of guns so maybe you can buy a hunting rifle to go hunting with, but you can't buy a semiautomatic pistol because this is designed to kill people, or decreasing open carry laws so that people cannot carry their guns outside.
So two main areas of clash, the first on government obligations and why guns are uniquely dangerous.
We tell you that governments are meant to protect the citizens and this is their first and foremost necessary obligation.
Why is this the case?
Because recognize that the only reason that we particularly want governments is to protect our rights.
Recognize that if I thought that I could live a fully autonomous life without government intervention, I would probably do so.
But I recognize that me living in the wild probably means that being weaker and smaller than a lot of other people, my will and rights will be subverted to others.
This is why people aggregate into communities that create governments in order to protect all of their rights and not allow arbitrary characteristics to create the hierarchy of who gets to dominate who.
What this means is that when we recognize that the primary obligation of the government is to protect their citizens, we recognize that if guns pose a large threat to the safety of rights of citizens then the government must regulate them.
So everyone agrees that guns used against innocents and used to inspire violence is bad and the only justified reason for guns the majority of the time is one for self defense.
But recognize that this is already provided by the government the majority of the time.
Having things like police that walk the streets and are able to be called to your house if you need them, being able to have a military that is well funded, all of these things mean that your need to protect yourself is minimum in the majority of western liberal democracies.
And especially the united states.
We tell you that under an effective government, you don't need pistols or other semi automatic guns.
But more than this, we tell you that the obligation of the government to protect your citizen's rights supersedes that one person's right to maybe own a gun.
Recognize this is easily proven through recognizing that there is a rights hierarchy.
What we mean by this is that certain rights are more important than others.
Such as the right to life superseding, say, our property rights to to hold a gun.
A perfect example of us recognizing this is when we tax when government taxes maybe tax the rich more unfairly than those who are poorer because we recognize that your right to property is less than someone else's right to social services or medical health care that allow them to continue living their lives.
We tell you that gun rights are similar.
I probably don't care about your right to own a gun, as long as there is a sizable decrease in violence and a sizable decrease in the number of deaths.
Secondary of clash has to do with violence and its decrease.
Because everyone has heard that quote, guns don't kill people.
People kill people.
But recognize that people kill people a hell of a lot easier when they have access to guns.
We tell you that it's easier to get into conflicts in the heat of the moment when things like open carry laws exist and a simple argument can turn much more violent when someone pulls a gun.
We think that on our side of the house, it makes it first, less likely that individual violent outbursts occur.
We think that a lot of people are just irrational and things like bar fights open up are much harder to have a more violent outcome and more lives lost when you're stabbing someone with a knife rather than a gun can literally end someone's life with one shot.
But more than this, we think that it makes it easier to track and use weapon use on an individual level it's just much harder for random people to target to get a hold of guns in the first place when you do things like background checks that criminals can't buy them.
When you do things like make sure that these people don't have certain mental health illnesses that lead things to like that lead to things like columbine or two teenagers on lots of meds can get a hold of a couple of guns and shoot up a school.
But more than this we think a lot of people are like oh but the black market will exist.
The problem with this is that black markets oftentimes make things more expensive and harder to reach.
What this means is that no matter what on our side of the house it will be harder to get guns.
But even if a black market exists, we think it is infinitely easier to track on our side of the house when there's less noise around this black market of it being legal or illegal.
For these reasons proud to propose.