The motion for today's debate is that we should disband the united nations.
Two main areas of clash, the first on how it doesn't work.
The united nations was created in a time, when people were scared of globalization.
They wanted states to stick to themselves, and be as minimal an interference as possible.
This is why the permanent five were given the veto, and why the united nations is often tending to to not do something rather than take action.
As such, it is incredibly outdated.
The security council creates an unfair power disbalance, that makes it so that nothing ever gets done, that might be against the desires of the permanent five, so real change can never occur.
It allows the permanent five to maintain this power over other nations, in in like in case another nation want something done, or use it as a punishment, should one nation disappoint them, and and and it prevents actual change from occurring, by making everything into a political discussion, rather than recognizing what action has to be taken.
It is a problem that the only determinant thing that the united nations has done unanimously is israel year after year, and it is even more of a problem that this, barely occurs due to vetoes as well.
But even in the theoretical way, the united nations is too big to be efficient, insofar as almost every nation is included, there is never a world in which they are going to agree on something in particular.
There's always going to be a minority disappointed.
Moreover, it neglects the voices of those more involved.
We think that the african union is more likely to know, about what is best for africa, and thus it should not be the decision of the united states or china, if something actually gets done in that area.
Because the resources are funneled into the united nations, you never get these competitors coming up though, and you never get things like the african union taking the actions it needs to take.
We think that it only promotes tension, because because countries can never agree and the existence of something useless, masquerading as good, is worse than if nothing existed at all.
Because it means that there is a false sense of solvency, that allows nations to say: but look, we're communicating, we are doing something, when nothing is actually changing.
Our second of clash has to do with how it how the united nation crowds out alternatives, that could actually make change on a on a wider scale.
Groups like nato, the african union, the european union, or the organization of american states, are all viable alternatives created to deal with issues of humanitarian aid, and human rights abuses.
We think that the smaller groups are on net preferable, because they're less bureaucratic, and you don't have a permanent veto, that says: even if the majority agree, like we're still not going to do it.
We think that the smaller groups would allow for more directed treatment, as said as said previously, the african union probably knows better what africa needs, than every other voice crowding out african nations within the UN.
We think it's a problem that the UN still operates under incredibly imperialist norms, where it doesn't matter if you know the conflict better, all that matters is that you have more money funneling into that group, and have a louder voice, as such.
Moreover, we think that it promotes this kind of imperialism, when it forces smaller nations, at the behest of of larger nations.
When the only way to get your proposal ahead is to negotiate with china, or the united states, essentially allowing them free reign over things, like resource extraction, if you really want something done, or when you're afraid to make them angry, because then they will not help you in the future.
We think it prevents actual change from occurring, because smaller nations cannot do what is best for them, rather having to defer to what larger nations want.
We think the only way to end this imperialism is by destroying the system, and seeing what else comes in its wake.
Negotiations will occur regardless, because countries need to talk about things like trade, and to talk about humanitarian aid, et cetera.
Like, the only difference now is that we're not doing so, in a way that doesn't work.
For these reasons, proud to propose.