Real quick, I think it's important to clarify what kind of abortions we're talking about here.
On both sides of the house, very late term abortions are going to be banned.
So what we're talking about is the first and early second trimester of a woman's pregnancy and whether or not women ought to have the right to abort at that point.
With that, two main areas of clash on why abortion definitely ought exist.
First on why it is not life, or specifically the fetus is not life.
We think that it's important to recognize that life is only valuable insofar as it can value itself.
This is a widely accepted standard and the argument for animal rights.
Because if an animal can suffer and value that suffering, it is therefore for rights and the more that one values itself so when you get to humans and they value themselves in the context of the future the more rights that person is deserving of.
Will also accepts this standard during his speech.
With that, we think it's really important to recognize that fetuses don't experience any of this.
Not only at this very young age are they barely even fetuses rather they are just clumps of cells, but they also do not experience pain or pleasure until well into the third trimester when they actually start to move.
The question for this round is why should we care about a clump of cells that without the aid of another human's body couldn't even exist.
Then will says this really bullshit thing about future life, but recognize what this means.
If we're going to evaluate something as living based on the potential for life you would have to regulate things like ejaculation or periods because of the waste of the potential life that you're giving away when you have a period or you ejaculate.
But recognize that also linearity in the way that will describes is not the way that people live.
We conceptualize the future but we live in the present.
This is why we're okay with changing plans or not necessarily setting the future in stone because we recognize that things are subject to change and that the current is always going to matter more.
Our second area of clash has to do with who matters more even if you buy will's conception of weighing between the mother's and child's life.
Clearly we should care more about the mother.
First, she is a more complex human being and actually experiences suffering, insofar as their body is going through these changes, they're imagining what their future is going to look like, they can actually conceptualize what that suffering will look like into the long term.
We think that the fact that they suffer and this fetus doesn't at all automatically places them as more valuable.
Second, this mother bears a child at the cost of oneself.
Nine months of pregnancy is not a small deal.
It comes with massive hormonal fluctuation, weight fluctuation, and other types of suffering.
More than this, after the child's birth birth, if the child is kept they also have to bear a financial burden.
At the point that the parent is actually giving away parts of themselves, we think they also have a right to choose whether or not they want to do that.
In the same way that I get to choose how I spend my money because I worked for it and that was hard, we think a parent should be able to choose whether or not they have to have a baby because that's something they also have to work for and is hard.
Third life look we think that it's important to note that the parental life actually has something to lose.
Recognize so there's just really common argument that conservatives and republicans use all the time about what if you aborted the next einstein.
But recognize that it's a million more times likely that the woman who now has to give up schooling or move back with her parents or start or like work as single mother is infinitely more likely to have been that einstein that you've stunted, insofar as she was actually a developed human being who had a life of her own and thus we ought to have valued it more.
But finally, I want to remind you that these bans are never actually enforceable.
It just takes us back to the time of coat hanger abortions and high mortality rates.
Don't take humanity and women back, don't ban abortions.
Proud to oppose.