The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt mobile payments.
What we mean by this is that we would prefer a world in which the use of mobile payments is normalized and preferable to the use of credit or debit card or cash, and that you would make stores compatible with apps such as venmo or other mobile payment apps.
Two main areas of clash, the first on efficiency.
We tell you that mobile payments are much easier to use than other regular ways in which people transfer cash.
We think that the other ways in which we pay each other oftentimes involves either exact amounts of cash, which requires you to either have change on you, or have like preplanned what you are doing, or it requires you to like have an active debit or credit card, which can often be something that is very stressful for an individual, but also like easy to lose, easy did like not have on you at that moment.
We think that what mobile payment allow you to do is that because everyone often has a phone on them, or some sort of mobile device that can allow you to transfer money one another, is that it lets you lets you make transactions without extensive planning beforehand.
It is much easier to split payments between multiple people this way and eliminates the cash dilemma when there's not enough change or if someone only has solid bills.
A lot of tension in friend groups and between individuals is caused by difficulties with money or difficulties with like trust and with regards to whether or not someone will give you their money back.
Apps like venmo, that let you easily pay someone back an exact change at that exact moment, create a freer exchange of goods.
We think that it is generally positive when people have more options and aren't limited by the cash that they brought.
This is both good on an individual level, because someone gets to make more autonomous decisions about where they want to spend their cash.
You no longer have to make a lesser like a decision of lesser quality because you're limited by how much you have on you at that moment, or like something similar, or limited by the amount that other people have on them at that time.
But we also think that it's good for the economy.
Because we think that it's the case that a lot of people sometimes go out hoping to like do a certain thing and then end up not being and like if they see something along the way, end up not being able to purchase it, or purchase this service because they didn't plan for it that day and didn't bring that money with them.
Mobile payments eliminate this and make people much and make it much easier for people to exchange goods and services in a like easier flow of cash way.
Our second main area of clash has to do with why mobile payments are much more secure.
It's important to understand the alternatives, which are basically sending money through mail, if you're paying someone for a large purchase such as rent or something like that, exchanging cas cash with each other or using a credit or debit card.
We think that it's a lot easier for checks to get stolen and for debit and other cards to get compromised.
Because oftentimes it's as simple as someone sticking an appendage on an ATM and hoping that you don't notice, and suddenly they have your credit card number.
The use of of apps and like other mobile payments is that oftentimes these are private and on your phone and it connects only to your device, so it's very difficult for someone else to acquire the information that you are typing in and it usually uses end to end encryption that protects you much better than, like using mobile payments, than other things like exchanging cash or cards is.
So in addition to the fact that it is just more fluid and allows you to have more exact amounts, it is also much more secure and protects you from theft.
We also think that we should prioritize the safety of the money given that when people feel more secure in the money that they spend, they are more willing to spend more of it, or do riskier things with it.
So we think that things that allow transfers between cards as well as accounts such as venmo are very positive for people's personal feelings and this gets kind of expounded when they choose to spend on the outside world.
For these reasons proud to propose.