Don't abolish the electoral college.
Two main arguments, first on forcing egalitarian campaigning.
James is worried about the distribution of people to each electoral college vote, but we actually think it's a good thing that we have a baseline representation even for states that have less people.
Because sure people should select the president but we think that the protecting the interests of minority groups is also fundamental to the united states.
So we just think that having something like the electoral college is a balance of those two interests: first of having the desired majority represented, but second of protecting the desires of the minority.
He says that you can ignore the populace-filled states with the electoral college.
Like we just don't think this is the way it works right?
Like you still need those votes as a well because they still make up a very large percentage of the overall vote, it's just about whether or not you campaign these other spaces at all.
Like it's about whether or not the popular areas eclipse the rural areas to such a large extent that you no longer even care about getting those people to vote for you in the first place.
The electoral college keeps large states relevant.
There are plenty of states that have very low population density densities but spread those populations over an absurd amount of land: states like wisconsin, nebraska, minnesota.
Other states have large urban centers that house millions of people that are often very small in terms of land mass.
If we abolish the electoral college there would never be an incentive to campaign in those larger states because politicians could just focus on winning large urban centers and get the popular vote.
This is very problematic because while the average special interest of someone from an urban center is similar to someone else from that urban center, they are completely different from people who live in more rural areas and less population dense areas ie people from nebraska probably have a high interest in things like farming subsidies while people from urban centers are more concerned with things like education reform or welfare in the area.
We need to make sure that there is an incentive to cater to both groups of people so that it doesn't get massively under covered.
We ensure that politicians run national rather than regional campaigns and in this way we make sure that the necessary special desires or special interests of people in rural areas don't just get overlooked to favor putting money into these places that get you elected by urban areas.
Our second argument is about providing a definitive win.
Majority votes can often have very small margins ie a fifty one to forty nine split.
People lose faith in those kinds of splits and it creates political instability and disagreement and that might be good during the process of the election but after the election is over we need to be able to move forward and start being productive.
The mandate provided by a decisive electoral college vote allows that transition to occur much more smoothly even if it is partially based in a weak aura of legitimacy.
Like we think it's worth it just because it allows for the united states to move forward after a particularly harmful particularly controversial election.
James is worried about having recounts within the supreme court.
Like first we just think this is really rare.
Like with the majority votes you'd still get calls for recounts also because the standard deviation would just be higher.
He's worried about the fact that in florida like the you rounding error is two hundred but this just means that on the national level the rounding error becomes two thousand or like something similar in terms of magnitude scale.
So we think that he just shifts where the recounts are asked for, he doesn't meaningfully shift whether or not people feel the need to ask for them.
But also then he talks about ties and we think that ties are unlikely on both sides of the house.
Like they're not impossible without the electoral college either so at the point that he recognizes it is very unlikely with the electoral college we just think this doesn't become like an argument he can win on because of how unlikely it is on both sides of the house.
Proud to oppose.