The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt a direct democracy.
What we mean by this is that in the united states we would make it so that every major bill or like act of legislation would become a referenda by which individual people would get to vote off the internet and whatever the outcome of that vote for their options would become law.
We think this could apply both on a federal and a state level in that if there's like a particular piece of state legislature, than everyone in that state would vote directly and if it's a piece of federal legislature, then everybody in the country would have the option to vote correctly and like it trickles down in the same manner.
So if this is like a local piece of legislation for the region then we would say that everybody in that region or in that district or in that county would be able to vote on it.
Three main areas of clash, first on finding the most democratic system.
We value democracy for a few reasons.
First because in its ultimate interpretation it prevents oppression by allowing individuals to have a direct voice over the way in which their government acts against them or over the way in which the government acts period realistically.
Second because it provides a space for individuals to self actualize.
We think that in a democracy, people often act behind the veil of ignorance which they think about what they themselves would prefer not to be imposed upon them and then use that to become the framework for different laws.
And third because it minimizes government intervention.
We think the way in which people are allowed to maximally self actualize is when the government stays as much out of their business as possible.
The problem is that you can't truly achieve these impacts without a direct democracy because a representative democracy always leaves room for things like lobbying of special interest groups or the ignorant ignoring like a particular individual group because you know they don't have the finances to lobby you or make real change.
So, we think that it's easier to prevent a population from voting for a representative than it is to prevent a population from voting for every single order or act of legislation like we think it fundamentally changes the incentive structures of lobbyers so that now they have to convince the general populace that they are good and not just one individual representative.
We also think that the only way we properly represent everyone is through a direct democracy because at the end of the day it's just incredibly unlikely for minority groups to get adequately represented in a representative democracy.
Like we see this even with gender where eventhough we have like a fifty-fifty split in society there are like maybe four women to every maybe like four men to every one woman in politics but this especially gets worse as you move down to like racial minorities and things like that.
We also think that it used to be impossible to obtain a direct democracy due to like technological limitations but it's important to notice that this is no longer the case, we have things like computers that like can count these ballots and so insofar as we can achieve a better democracy we ought do so.
Our second area of clash is about combating apathy.
Currently people don't feel pressured to keep up on news or politics in part because they know that their representative will take care of it for them but also in part because they feel like there's a lack of control over policies since they know that lobbying and like general money plays a really large role in deciding what policies come into action.
But if they know that their votes have a direct impact on that policy becoming law, we think it creates an incentive to stay informed and it especially engages younger or poorer populations that have specifically become disenfranchised through the lack of control.
Our third area of clash is about increasing efficacy and decreasing corruption.
Recognize that it's harder to lobby an entire population rather than small amounts of representatives that can be convinced using monetary incentives like we think it's really difficult to pose a monetary incentive big enough for an entire country of people and we think that you therefore you avoid this bad impact when you vote directly.
It also avoids bureaucratic time wasters like decisions in the status quo are rarely bipartisan which leads to stalling but it's really hard to stall a body of people that will tell you what the majority opinion is.
For these reasons, proud to propose.