The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize public service broadcasters, we being the united states government.
Two main areas of clash, the first on accountability and the incentives of the government as compared to other large bodies.
Because recognize what the comparative is: if the government isn't funding these broadcasters, then large corporations or consumer-based tactics dominate broadcasting in television insofar as individual broadcasters have to be able to fund themselves.
So, let's explore why the government is better.
First, recognize that the government has much less reason to be partisan than any other corporation, because even if one political power party might be in power at that moment, many entities control the government at large and the bureaus.
So, even if our president is republican, even if we have a majority democratic congress, those who control other bureaus aren't necessarily less partisan.
But even if you don't buy that, we tell you that generally the government, as a whole, wants the public to be educated in order to make future good decisions.
Insofar as the government is created in order to serve the public will, they don't have an incentive to undermine it through propaganda, even if individual people within the government do.
But next we tell you that the accountability, if the government is being problematic, is much higher when the government is funding them rather than if large corporations are.
Because recognize that if like exxon corporation pays fox to say something nonsense or overly conservative that supports the oil industry, and then other people call fox out, then neither exxon nor fox particularly care about the fallout as long as their ratings aren't hurt.
But recognize that if the government was to fund NPR, and then NPR was to spew nonsense that was like inherently lies about the oil or gas industry, the government gets the fallout from those lies because now they're having people who are individually like, " look, you were supposed to be a real news source, you were supposed to be nonpartisan. "
But more than this, we tell you that independence to these news organizations is necessarily a positive thing.
Insofar as their funding is not tied to how many views they get, is not tied to how many donors donate to them, they are necessarily going to be much more likely to take nonpartisan stances, because they're not trying to gain more money, and they're necessarily going to be more educative, because they're not just trying to be clickbait.
What this means is that you're actually going to have real news coming out of these public service broadcasters as compared to other corporations, and you'll actually be able to trust them more.
Our second area of clash has to do with societal good.
First we want to talk about kids' television, because recognize that in the status quo, a lot of corporations do not fund children's television, insofar as kids don't make money and don't create large profits.
What this means is that either you simply don't get meaningful kids' television, or you get kids television that is full of advertisements for toys-r-us and other corporations.
What this means is that the best kind of television for children oftentimes comes out of things like PBS, where the incentive to make more money decreases the number of advertisements or at leaps at least keeps them minimized towards, like, goodwill funding, like they often advertise charities and other positive things.
But also, that these television shows, in themselves, are more education-based because they don't care if your child changes the channel, because their funding comes from the government, not from this like the television resource that like based on your clicks.
But next, we wanna talk about where they provide news, because people with more money can necessarily afford subscriptions to things like foreign policy and large news-based organizations that can provide them with the news they prefer to hear.
The issue is that while not everyone has the money to subscribe to a specific news outlet, most people have a television in this house in their house.
What this means is that those who can't afford specialized sources, can exclusively afford things that are subsidized by the government, such as public service broadcasters.
More than this though, we tell you that a lot of the news out there is incredibly partisan on television, such as fox news or NBC.
We tell you that a moderate voice provided to those who cannot afford it is incredibly important.
For those reasons, proud to propose.