Don't eliminate unesco.
This is a pretty simple.
We think that like in a world where there's a choice between keeping unesco or not keeping unesco we would prefer to keep it standing and like provide it with all the capabilities that it currently has.
Two main areas of clash, first on why the world heritage site list, which would go away if unesco did not exist, is good.
First on why it would go away: recognize that this is like the main thing that unesco does.
It basically like compiles and adds to this list of world heritage sites of like these areas and these cultural landmarks that hold a lot of cultural and beautiful value and like natural value oftentimes.
And so should it go away, the money to support that kind of list and the money to support the grants that it gives out would no longer exist, which would be incredibly problematic.
Because recognize that what the world heritage list does is that it designates areas of the world as historical landmarks of beauty, human ingenuity, etcetera.
And this is really really good both for like the world as a whole, but for the like economy of those countries, which are oftentimes developing as well.
Because recognize that when you get this kind of thing, like this becomes something that you can advertise, this becomes something that people see, it become something that like liberal yuppies look up online when they look up areas that they should be visiting.
And unesco like sponsors a list of them and suddenly it's like something that goes on their radar where previously it would not.
So these kinds of declaration attract tourists from richer countries.
And it creates jobs as well.
Like by bringing these people in and creating this demand for hotels, for restaurants, for little shops that will sell them kitschy little things.
It creates a world in which these areas can thrive on tourism.
Which is very positive because it's incredibly sustainable with these kinds of list.
As long as these landmarks exist, that's how long the demand to go to these landmarks will exist, which is something uniquely provided economically.
Like anything of a lot of other things run out over time, because the demand goes down if it's like a particular good, or the supply goes down if it's a like rare natural resource.
But insofar as there are always rich people who want to look at beautiful sites, this is a very consistent way to stimulate your economy and develop your economy.
It also provides a source of cultural pride in that even if individuals knew it was beautiful before, it's something that the country can take pride in, something that can go on pamphlets, something that can go in the news.
And this can be very powerful for countries in conflict, where they can say: " look like regardless of the stuff going on, here is something that is also important.
Something that also brings cultural value and meaning to us being a country together. "
It also helps raise money for restoration oftentimes.
For example the buddha statues in the in the bamiyan valley were destroyed, and something that was made possible through the world heritage list is that they were able to apply for a grant, and after they had been able to add themselves to that list, they were able to take money that was raised by unesco and put that money towards restoring those buddhas.
And could restoring these things that have intensive value for the people in that area as well as the potential to bring money into it.
Unesco can point out areas that need reconstruction and stimulate donations from a more global source due to the fact that it has such a farther reach.
But it also provides UN funds that no one else can.
This is called the preservation fund and countries can actually apply to grants.
Our second area of clash is about how it serves an irreplaceable purpose.
It's really hard to get people to care about cultural components of a country.
They often become casualties of war and become the first to be sold off when countries are an economic strife, because it's just these items may matter a lot less.
But these things do have value.
These things do bring comfort and background and history to these areas.
And so the only one of the few ways in which we can get a large scale effort going is by making these kinds of lists.
By creating these kinds of organizations that target them specifically and saying: " look, even though there's all this other shit going on, this is also something that is really important. "
So we think that's quite good and we don't think that you ever get that back on their side of the house.
Proud to propose.