Don't ban genetically modified crops.
Three main arguments, first on solving world hunger.
Recognize that we think this is the potential for good of genetically modified crops is always going to be more important than the things that have been harmful that companies have done in the status quo.
This is because we recognize that you can do things like regulate around the bad things that companies have done, like the fact that monsanto does things like sues poor farmers who happened to have unwillingly gotten a hold of their seeds is something we can take legislative action against by not allowing that lawsuit to be successful.
And if we did allow it to be successful that's a signal of our society being problematic, not a symbol of why we should prevent that tool from being accessible to parts of our society or to other societies via ours.
Recognize that when you have genetically modified food, you can do things like modify those plants to grow in climates that might be completely opposed to what they would usually grow in for an infinitely cheaper amount of price per production.
So you can do things like put a cactus gene into a strawberry plant so that it needs less water and can survive in hotter climates so it's less expensive to grow it in the desert so that groups can pay less to acquire it but you can also grow a lot more so individuals are more fed by it.
James keeps like rattling on and on about this lack of consumer choice.
I think this is literal nonsense, like you can still have laws that require individuals to label genetically modified crops and there's your consumer choice.
Like as long as we have hipsters and vaccine scared mothers we're going to have individuals who are going to fuel a market for non-genetically modified food and will be willing to pay more for it.
The question becomes should we keep the individuals who don't care about whether or not it's genetically modified from having access to that as well.
Our second argument is about solving nutrition issues.
Listen, large swathes of the world suffer from malnutrition.
It is one of the largest causes of child deaths and infant mortality.
So we think that when you can do things like engineer plants to provide more nutrients than they usually would because you live in an area where getting vitamins c is really difficult based on the climate not growing those kinds of plants or based on the fact that it is artificially made more expensive by market forces outside your control, then it becomes really important that you have access to these kinds of things.
Like you have food deserts where the only thing available is fast food and people aren't able to get a hold of things like fruits or vegetables.
So we think creating something like a genetically modified rice that is really cheap for mcdonald's to buy becomes infinitely easier for us to distribute nutrients and prevent those kinds of harms to large swaths of the population.
This also makes it good in both developing and and developed societies because it solves many of the issues that both groups share just in in a lesser degree as for one.
We also just think that this argument that james has about long term risk is easily solved by running a long term study.
This is a reason to spend a long time on FDA approval, not to ban the practice or the study or the production entirely.
We think a lot of james' speech is just conflating the harms that can be mitigated in other ways with only being solvable through banning and he needs to recognize those alternatives otherwise you just drop him on face because he's not actually engaging with the comparative world, just pretending that things work in a way that they don't.
Finally though, our third argument is about why it's not harmful.
Monsanto is not representative of the majority of genetically modified produce, it's just representative of corporate behavior.
You can ban those bad behaviors individually.
For ever monsanto there's a nonprofit making rice to stop malnutrition or making corn that you can distribute more easily or you can grow in in like worse climates.
Like the the potential for good is so large that it is not worth banning it because there are a couple of bad seeds.
Proud to oppose.