So once again sam misunderstands the motion.
Most schools already banned guns.
In fact all schools do so and if they don't, then that's a very questionable institution.
Which means that the debate isn't about actual guns or the violence that comes off of them, but rather it's about the imagery and the speech that occurs about guns and whether it is justified in banning not just the weapon but rather the associated images and the associated speech.
Two areas of clash: the first on why zero tolerance in general is a bad policy.
It is unnecessarily stringent in that they ban not just the weapon itself, but also related hand gestures, imagery etcetera.
This is a problem on two levels: first, it creates a taboo that glamorizes the concept.
So now that like now that everyone's talking about how much you cannot have guns in school it becomes that much cooler to be the kid who snuck in a gun, and now you're that glamorous rebel that all the kids are talking about in the schoolyard.
We think that you don't want to create a world in which children are incentivized to rebel by bringing firearms into the school, and therefore you ought not like make that taboo in the first place.
But secondly, children are children.
Current media is chock full of general violence and imagery and this exposure doesn't go away when you come into the school building.
Like the cartoon that I watched twenty minutes before I walked through those doors is still with me.
The shirt that my mother bought at cools that has a picture of a gun on it is still with me.
We think that these are generally harmless kinds of influences and harmless exposures, but when you make a big deal out of them, when you start punishing children for them, that's when you make it a sticking point and that's when people get sent away from school rather than being prioritized for their education.
We think that being punished for what society has instilled in you is unfair and also unnecessary.
This is where you get kids sent home for finger guns and t-shirts, and we prefer that they can stay back and learn because in the end, especially if you're part of like a more violent neighborhood, your infinitely more likely to be dragged into that culture of violence if you're at home than whether than if you are at school in a learning environment.
Our second area of clash has to do with guns as political speech.
Current political issues massively surround guns and gun violence.
Like POC and the misuse of police forces, like we think that in the end, if I am a young black teenager and this directly affects my life, or if I am someone who has been significantly affected by gun violence in the past and has strong opinions on how on like what kind of legislation should be done, then I ought be able to voice my opinion.
Two reasons for this: first, we don't think that children, or like high schoolers like are any less people just because they are in high school or a younger age.
In the end, the political debates of today become the legislation of tomorrow that these teens have to exist in and therefore it's important to give them a say.
But second, because we don't think that students give up their right to free speech when they walk into a school.
Not only has this been shunned by many court decisions, but it's also a symbol of them being citizens who are affected by the world.
We think that the point that zero tolerance policies are often used to target political speech in efforts to keep the school calm, so we've seen numerous situations in not necessarily with guns but often with like marijuana, where you have people who are advocating for legalization and because like teachers don't like the kind of like reputation this gives to the school, they shut it down even though it's political speech.
Unless is protected and allowed underneath not a zero tolerance policy, then you're just going to be allowed to have targeted like essentially political speech silencing which we think is illegal when the government does it and it's still legal in the school system does it.
We also think that it's often racist in that when a like person of color is using, or wearing imagery there often perceived to be more dangerous than if a white person is.
So we think that the kid who's like darker skin tone and using finger guns is always more likely to get sent home on their side of the house than the white kid who's doing the same thing.
For these reasons proud to oppose.