Sure, the electoral college has its flaws, but we don't think that's a reason that you abolish something.
Rather, we think that one example of a really good reform for the electoral college, that we'd be willing to take on, isn't making it not a winner take all system but rather splitting the percentage of votes and like aligning them to the members of the electoral college.
So like say that you had a forty sixty split in your state, and so and you had ten members of the electoral college as an example, you'd have six of them vote for one person and four of them vote for the other.
And we think that would be really useful way of making it a more democratic system and we'd be fine with defending that.
With that, two main areas of clash as to why you should not abolish the electoral college.
First, it insures that all parts of the country are involved and matter.
If the popular vote was all that mattered, people would only campaign to very populous states.
This leaves very small states uninvolved in uninformed about current political proceedings.
It would disproportionately fall on farming states especially.
For example, ohio and iowa are like less populated but relatively large states, but they would like completely go ignored without the electoral college, because in the end they don't have very large metropolitan cities, and cities contain the majority of people.
It what this like crystallizes then into is a world in which you're never going to get pro agriculture or like pro or anti like taxes passed, so like you'd essentially always have a democrat pretty much, because cities always vote blue.
And so this is like a very big problem because it doesn't necessarily represent what these smaller states require.
We think that the smaller states also deserve to have their voices heard.
Just because they have less people doesn't make them less important.
Because we also think that there has to be some kind of classification based on ideology.
Right?
Like agreed, there's going to be higher density population in cities, but they're also all going to have, the majority of the time, the same general ideology.
And so the only time that you get a diversity of representation for ideologies is with the system like the electoral college.
We think it enhances the status of minority interest, and it forces the parties to be more broad.
Right?
Like, we see in other nations that parties can just get away with having like tons and tons of single issue parties, because they don't they only need to appeal to popular vote.
But when you have something like the electoral college you force parties to be more broad because they know that the winner takes all system is going to swoop in, and so they have to actually appeal to a wider majority of individual people as well.
We also think it enhances cohesiveness because it forces them to go to like the majority of states.
Our second area of clash has to do with how the electoral college creates a clear winner.
Because let's go back to the election with nixon, where you ended up in a situation where where both major candidates had earned forty percent, around, of the of the popular vote.
So what they had was a plurality of votes but not necessarily a majority of votes, which is what a popular vote would require.
, so the popular vote doesn't always have a majority but the electoral college does.
The deeper impact of this is that it reduces frivolous recalls and dragged out elections, it provides people with a like firm state of closure and like it essentially generalizes across the nation in a way that you couldn't.
And so we also think it allows for like smaller errors.
So whereas like five hundred, or like five hundred to a thousand to a million people would make a really big difference in a popular vote, they wouldn't in an electoral college.
And so it actually makes our system more exact and less prone to error or messing with.
So like if there's a mis counting of ballots or an issue with electronic polling.
With that, proud to oppose.