The motion for today's debate is that we should ban racial profiling.
So what we mean is that airports and other government entities or privately owned corporations would not have the ability to automatically detain someone based on their race, or like automatically choose these people for random bag checks, or police would not be able to use like the last names of individuals or their skin tone to delineate who is going to be more trustworthy as a witness or who is more likely to have committed a crime.
So stop and frisk programs, which are often known for using racial profiling, would also be heavily limited under these kinds of laws.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why people have a right to be innocent until proven guilty.
Racial profiling presupposes that based on your race or skin tone you are more likely to have committed a crime.
So it essentially presupposes guilt based on immutable characteristics.
This is unfair because fundamentally people are all created equally, and that is a violations of one's right to be treated differently from another based on your race.
Because we all recognize that just because I am female it does not mean that I have less rights or am less capable than someone who is male.
In the same way, just because someone is of middle eastern descent it does not mean that they are less deserving of their rights than someone who is white.
So fundamentally what racial profiling does is is say that because of your race you are worthy of a less rights than someone of a different race than you.
This is fundamentally unjust and ought be banned.
And these people are then subjected to embarrassing and usually time consuming processes and surveillance that our rights violative.
And because you are violating the rights of someone without proving their guilt first, you are committing a like criminal violation, and so that's another reason that it ought be banned.
We think that if you don't buy any of that, actions that are essentially examining whether one has committed a crime require probable cause.
But race isn't isn't probable cause, because under that kind of reasoning you could just stop any individual of a darker skin tone and assume that they have marijuana, but you don't actually have the probable cause to do so and so you would just be harassing people and committing rights violations for no reason.
Are second area of clash has to do with why it distracts from being effective in other ways.
One of the major things happening right now is that terrorist groups, and for a while now it's been happening, is that terrorist groups specifically recruit white kids because they know that these children will not get stopped.
And because the authorities are so busy racially profiling those of a darker skin tone, people who are of a lighter color are able to slip right through.
So what you see is that through racial profiling you're not actually targeting the problem, you're just making it easier for them to find loopholes.
We think the alternative is that rather than only having harsher surveillance on people of color, you should have that kind of surveillance on everyone and not make assumptions based on race, and that way you're not going to have things like people who are lighter being able to come through security with weapons, because you're so busy frisking someone of a darker skin color.
We also think that it creates an aura of fear around skin tone that decreases productivity and provides a scapegoat that real wrongdoers can hide behind.
So it's very easy for republicans or other like very conservative far right groups to blame criminal activity on those who are darker skinned and for society to believe these kinds of narratives.
Allowing meanwhile for these like far right groups to commit crimes and under the guise of just being of like being more white than others.
So we think the problem, essentially, with their side of the house is that while you have groups being called terrorist just based on their skin tone, you're ignoring mass amounts of groups that are actually committing the problem, because you're not willing to survey them as much.
For these reasons proud to propose.