Don't abolish no-knock warrants.
We think that it is good to make obtaining a no-knock warrant very difficult like requiring proof for why the groups being tracked are high flight risks or why you uniquely need a no-knock warrant.
But we don't think is a good idea is abolishing the chance to obtain a no-knock warrant at all.
At the end of the day, all we're advocating for is a recognition that different criminals require different treatment, and that cops and the judges that grant warrants in the first place are the most qualified to make those decisions.
To address tim's argument that no-knock warrants violate presumption of innocence, first we just don't think this is true.
Like you still have to get a warrant approved which means you have to prove probable cause to a judge.
But moreover we just don't understand why the presumption of innocence has to play into obtaining a warrant in the first place given that you have to prove probable cause.
Like it is not true that all criminals should be thought of as innocent before they're brought in.
Like when you're dealing with large crime organizations or people who have been in jail for similar crimes before or you've just had confirmation of the fact that they are a criminal and are just looking for something that can work in court.
Like all of these are circumstances in which we think the presumption of innocence just means that you're giving them too much leeway at the point that you know that these individuals are criminals.
And we don't think that you have to go to such a large extent as tim says in order to preserve that presumption.
Two main arguments, first on the need for immediacy.
We think that they're often cases where police are tracking people or groups that are flight risks or experienced gang organizations that are good at covering their tracks and hiding their criminal activities.
The time between knocking and entering the unit oftentimes is time that can be taken by criminals to run away, hide the goods, or arm themselves.
We think that no-knock warrants allow police to circumvent these risks and achieve their goals.
This becomes generally important if they're coming down on a large crime ring or if they're after someone has been particularly evasive for awhile.
Like at the end of the day obtaining evidence within our current system is fairly difficult insofar as you have to do it with the presence of a warrant, insofar as it often has to be conclusively like directly owned by the individual who you're going after, and we think that people who are experienced in those systems know how to evade those situations.
Even if it means just like sending someone out the back door with the drugs while you meet the police at the front one.
So we think that in those situations you especially need no-knock warrants.
Our second argument is about police safety.
The other thing that time provided by knocking allows is time for people on the other side to arm themselves if they plan on being violent with the cops.
We think that catching police by catching people by surprise allows cops to protect themselves from criminals they know are violent or armed.
Tim talks about how this is disproportionately issued against minority groups.
Like we think it is a problem that these things are disproportionate but we don't think that that means that you shouldn't have the type of warrant at all right?
Like we think that solving the underlying issues that cause theses situations is always going to be more effective than trying to ban the individual side effects of racism or a bias.
So if it is an issue that we are disproportionately targeting one demographic or another then we think that it is more important to address those internal biases maybe through things like sensitivity training or other situations rather than abolish the policy entirely if you buy that there are circumstances in which that policy is necessary.
Proud to oppose.