We should not ban alcoholic beverages.
Two main areas of clash first on how prohibition didn't work the first time and why it leads to more bad outcomes.
I think historically it's really important to recognize that we have tried bans on alcohol not just in the united states but in multiple other countries that currently have it acceptable and it has never worked for the exact reason that alcohol consumption in lieu of celebrations or sadness or anything really is very much ingrained into the culture of the majority of countries at this point.
It holds a unique niche in that people have associated both with extreme happiness and with extreme sadness and oftentimes use it to mark special cultural occasions.
What this but this means is that people are incredibly unlikely to ever allow a government body to ban them from something that they see as integral to the human experience and arguably could be integral to the human experience insofar as it definitely has impacts and self actualization.
We think what this does is creates an incredibly pernicious black market where it previously did not exist.
This is bad because in the status quo we can take substances that we consider to be a lot a lot like worse for someone or significantly bad and tax them at a very high rate to make it more expensive for people to purchase it but also to provide a large amount of revenue for governments.
We see this in states that have legalized marijuana where they become very rich very quickly because of revenue that comes off of taxing people people's income.
So sorry not people's income taxing people's intake of drugs.
We think the same can apply when it comes to alcohol but unfortunately when you have a black market you can't tax anything that goes on there because it's not legal to do so.
We also think the other problem here is that allows for the formation of gangs around the sale the illegal sale of the substances because you need someone to become the importer and the distributor which oftentimes lead to widespread violence in communities around this.
Second under this however is about why you rise the you raise the death count associated with alcohol use.
Recognize that people are going to use alcohol on both sides of the house, the difference becomes that you're not going to call the cops or an ambulance if you end up in a dangerous situation if the reason you're in that situation is in illegal substance.
This happens in the status quo on college campuses were under-age drinking doesn't get reported as much as it should because people are afraid they're going to get their friends in trouble then the value that person's legal safety above their physical safety.
But but we also just think that this creates a massive black hole around sexual assault while drunk because now people who come out and say look I was sexually assaulted when I was inebriated but that doesn't change the fact that it was sexual assault can no longer come out without fear of even further shaming for the fact they were the ones who were the drunks, but second because they'd be afraid of getting in trouble.
Our second area of clash is about maximizing personal freedoms.
We think that a ban is would primarily be inherently undemocratic insofar as the majority of individuals want alcohol to be legal.
It also doesn't meet the barrier for a ban which would be either that it causes massive external to the individual harms or is a pertinent government interest.
On the first half of this, because the harms are minimal to the individual if they are safely consuming and completely mitigated by the by things like education campaigns we think that people have a right to do things that causes them harms once those harms don't extend significantly beyond them.
We think that things like smoking are arguably worse than alcohol intake in that even very regulated smoking is still incredibly bad for your lungs but we still allow it because we recognize that individuals know themselves best and should not be prevented from acting in whatever self actualization they believe is going to get them there faster.
We also think that if anything there's a pertinent government interest in not banning because that gets the government more taxes and it becomes easier to protect the citizens when they can meaningfully regulate something that is legal.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.