We should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
Two main areas of clash, first on minimizing risk.
We think that it is infinitely more likely for a minor to run into long term issues when getting a piercing or a tattoo than an adult.
This happens we think for physiological reasons just the fact that like the skin of a minor and like the body of a minor is often more sensitive to a lot of reactants, we don't know the allergies yet completely like we think the burden on opposition is always going to have to be to show that this is so important to a minor that they can't just wait a few years to do it like if I'm like we think that there's always going to be a world in which eleven year olds try to get piercings and tattoos and we think that there's always a unilateral reason as to why they shouldn't.
And we think there's always going to be a world in which seventeen year olds are going to want to do it and even though it is technically harmful we think that an arbitrary line has to be drawn somewhere to protect those who are younger.
So we think it's fine to say that like hey sixteen year old who really wants a tattoo or piercing you have to wait two years and we think that's fine and insofar as it protects individuals who may be not as mature or may genuinely be a lot younger.
So we think that like there's never going to be a world in which this is this one thing is like so integral to one person's identity that it outweighs the entirety of the population or the entirety of other individuals and how that can affect them poorly.
We think like simple things like infections sun exposure like we think generally children are a lot less responsible than adults and are a lot less likely to care for their piercings and tattoos so there are a lot more likely to go out without covering their tattoo when they first got it they're going to forget to clean their piercings and what happens then is that all of these impacts are amplified like insofar as their reliance on the parent to take care of them and parents are also often unreliable we're unclear on why such a big burden ought be put on a minor.
Like it it seems reasonable to expect someone to be able to take care of themselves before you have them get like get body alterations that require taking care of.
We also think the problem is that children always end up that they're of like regional tattoo salons that have their own individual rules on what age groups that are willing to take so the majority of the reputable places are actually incredibly averse to ever having minors even if you live in an area that allows minors to get piercings and tattoos.
This means that minors are always accessing the areas that are less safe less secure less likely to be changing their needles regularly so on so forth just due to this like general discrimination that exists so we'd rather have a blanket ban that prevents them from accessing any area regardless of how shady it is.
We think the other issue is that like a lot of the time in the status quo it is the case that parents don't want minors to get those tattoos and we think what happens is that minors do it anyway just because they're feeling rebellious and so we think that insofar as like the state has recognized that parents have a certain right to mold the way that their child grows up up until the point that they are an adult we think that it is a good legal standard to extend that to piercings and tattoos insofar as it extends to literally every other aspect of a child's life.
Our second area of clash is about poor decision making because even though like the argument that someone might regret it often rings false this is one of the few situations in which it actually exists.
Recognize that the problem with minors is that they are very very young and have very few world experiences to contextualize their life in.
The the like role of a high school or middle school is not the pressures incentives and people that you will be encountering the rest of your life so your like desk mate wanting to get a piercing isn't going to be what you value the most once you're released into the real world.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that consent into these kinds of situations and a lack of regret can only happen when someone is able to weigh between the pros and cons in a reasonable manner and we think that minors just don't have the experiences to do that they don't have to contextualization of that the narrow realm of experience and with changing minds and changing bodies like we think the important thing to note here is that teenagers for a really good reason are known to be more volatile than any other population so it's unclear why we ought not be protecting them from their selves when we do it in every other regard.
Proud to propose.