The motion for today's debate is that we should ban homeopathy.
What we mean by this is that as of now, anyone found selling or advertising homeopathic products would be immediately issued a cease or desist order and any future signs of them breaking that law will result in large fines.
Too main areas of clash first, on why it is bad for the individual.
First under this, we want to talk about the economics.
So either you're a hipster who buys into homeopathy because you feel like there's something about old wives tales that is especially glamorous or you have some unknown reason to mistrust the government in which case, you are almost always overpaying for cute little hippie shops that are charging you more because they know that you are dumb enough to fall for it.
In the end, we think these people probably deserve it and we don't care about them as much but we do think that it's the case that spending money on homeopathy means they're not spending that money in meaningful ways elsewhere and it's probably still bad that they're being hoodwinked.
But we think the other alternative is that a lot of the time homeopathy is something used by people who have less economic means and they're trying to avoid the hospital costs associated with going in for for a visit.
They oftentimes buy very cheap and very very untested and unorganized products and what this means is that they are more likely to be incredibly ineffective.
This leads to two things.
First, it oftentimes you means that you are forced to buy more and more before you are forced to acknowledge that it is not a functional product but also it means that once it doesn't work you have to go to a hospital anyway and now you've essentially paid double.
We think that homeopathy is incredibly pernicious in that it purposefully advertises for those who do not have the means to go to a hospital or are likely to have a distrust of the hospital due to institutional problems such as the fact that hospitals have historically done things like sterilized people of color without their consent and so homeopathy basically takes advantage of those fears and economically takes advantage of them.
But second under this is about the physical problems that arise because the issue with homeopathy is that it does not have to meet the same rigorous standards of testing that any other kind of corporation produced drug or pharmaceutical product would have to undergo.
This means that you are much more likely to have an adverse or allergic reaction to something within the product and that it's also likely to be a missed dose of whatever potent thing is in it and so we think that you're actually more likely to require more treatment later but not just treatment for whatever you initially had a problem with, but also treatment for whatever adverse reaction you had to it afterwards and the problem is also that in so like while you're wasting your time with this homeopathic treatment, the problem itself is getting worse right.
So like if I start noticing extreme chest pains and I'm like okay well I'm going to drink some tea that was assigned to me by this homeopathic doctor person, then while I'm drinking this tea and hoping it'll get better the problem is going untreated and is actually getting significantly worse.
And we think that that's bad insofar as we could have solved this before and like certain issues when you need need to be treated relatively immediately otherwise they get a lot worse and it's actually very difficult or impossible to treat them afterwards.
Our second area of clash is about how it's bad for society.
We think that what homeopathy does is prays on those who are least educated and on those who are poorest.
Like most people know that homeopathy doesn't work and only those who don't have access to the research are likely to use it or those who are really in situations where they cannot economically afford something else and are just praying that it's likely to work and the problem is that they pretend that it's a cheaper alternative to hospital or meds but given that you often end up having to use both this is not true.
It also delegitimizes medicine in that homeopathic practicers spread lies about very real systems that are more likely to help you in order to sell their product.
It makes less people trust doctors on net which is bad because you end up with more sickness but less people seeking treatment.
It also causes problems for hospitals and doctors when people come in to having tried homeopathic remedies and require further treatment.
For these reasons, proud to propose.