Don't ban surrogacy.
Recognize that when sam does things like talks about how this is really poorly regulated, about how individuals can have really bad wages etcetera, he doesn't recognize that all of this gets exacerbated in a world where you cannot regulate it because you have banned that item.
So even if there is poor regulation in the status quo, we think that op can defend a world in which we do things like set a minimum wage for surrogates, have like a health inspection and safety condition checks.
Things that we would have for literally any other job condition we can also put in place for surrogacy.
Which makes it infinitely better than a world in which you don't have those regulations in place but things like black markets still occur which I'll talk about later.
Three main arguments, first on rights.
Recognize first and foremost what we ought be evaluating here is the woman's rights and whether or not she has a right to do this.
This is because that woman is the one who is most affected.
Recognize that literally nobody else in this round is going to suffer except the woman if we are buying the argumentation of government at all which is completely based on the idea that it exploits women but also because the only other actors who this affects is the happy parents who end up with children afterwards.
So we think at the end of the day, insofar as this woman is sacrificing her body for this, she is the one who is making the weighing calculus of whether or not the money is worth it.
Then ultimately this is something that is her right to choose because only she can decide whether or not this outweighs the other options she has in her life.
What sam labels exploitation I think is simply a weighing calculus.
If I have an option between two jobs I can go work really really hard in some field, earn very very little, be really tired and not have to not have enough money to feed my family or I can go and have a child, spend nine months in a care facility that will feed me and clothe me and take care of me and also have money to send back to my family.
These are options that a person can evaluate especially since it's not as if the harms of pregnancy are unbeknownst especially to the women who usually do this who tend to be mothers who have already had children in the past.
We don't think this is coercive.
You're just choosing between two jobs.
It would be the same if I was deciding whether or not to be a construction worker or go to medical school.
People can contextualize the potential in comparative harms.
We think that the burden becomes on government to show how this is meaningfully different from other jobs that someone would have to take that also can be really dangerous to your health.
Like if I'm someone who's a belly-dancer for life that really destroys all of my joints and oftentimes leads to massive walking disabilities in the future.
By working construction, I have the risk of being hurt by falling objects and things like that on a literal daily basis.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that they assume that being pregnant is somehow more dangerous than any of these things.
We actually think it's the most easiest insofar as it is usually an experience that your body literally comes pre-built for the &amp;unclear for.
Our second argument is about why it's good for women.
Recognize that money is the answer to long-term empowerment because when you can do things like earn money, earn enough money in a short enough amount of time, that you can invest that money or do things like buy yourselves animals that can produce food for you into the long term.
Then that is something that stabilizes you for years and years to come and often means that any children that you have of your own are going to have better upbringings than they otherwise would.
We also just think that the health care and free food and lodging that comes when you have a regulated market for these things, like recognize that corporations are always going to have an incentive to pump out healthy babies because otherwise no one will pay them for them because there will be a competition among who can provide the best services regarding surrogacy.
So these women are actually going to be experiencing some of the best healthcare and the best food and the best lodging they would ever be experiencing within their lives while simultaneously being able to send money home.
Our third argument is about the black market.
As we told you, you cannot regulate what you're not allowed to know exists.
This means on their side of the house they don't have any regulations on age, pay, or medical care, and they also don't have any competition that makes corporations treat their surrogates better because individuals have to go to whatever black market surrogacy they can get.
It's also bad because this is where the actual exploitation that sam is worried about happens.
You find really desperate women and pay them trash and treat them like trash because you can.
This increases mortality and is generally bad.
Proud to oppose.