The only relevant question in this round is whether people have a right to pursue behaviors that might be harmful to them based on their personal choice and preference.
Because our side of the house is still completely pro massive ad campaigns that educate people about the chances of winning the lottery, or high taxes on casinos, or banning casinos from being in certain spaces or cities, like all of this we're okay with.
But the one thing that we're not okay with is this idea that you can ban a practice because people can't imagine how bad it is for them, or like or because it is so harmful to the individual that they shouldn't be able to make a choice about it.
With that, two independent points.
The first on rights.
And right off the top, we think that tim is blatantly incorrect about people's ability to contextualize how much money is actually going to gambling, or how that money adds up.
Because like recognize that this is actually incredibly infantilizing, right?
Like a lot of people set budgets for themselves in which they set aside a certain amount of money for entertainment, and we think that what happens on their side of the house is that you're saying well, that money that you've earned, we're going to regulate how you're going to spend it and how you enjoy your time.
We also think that in the end people can do math, like I can look at my budget spending and I can say, oh look how much money I was spending at the casino, I probably should stop.
Like in the end, we think that these people know exactly what they're getting into, especially if he wants to talk about those who are poor, who often grow up in areas where a lot of people suffer from gambling addictions, like these are things they've been around their whole entire life, and in the end they're going to know it better than tim ever will.
But in the end, we also think that people just have a right to make bad decisions for short-term pleasure.
Like if we're going to allow people to smoke cigarettes that can literally destroy them physically, if we're going to let them like do things like extreme sports, we think that you should also allow them to to participate in lotteries.
We also just think that government paternalism isn't justified in other ways, like the government doesn't know what you're going through or what your financial situation is, and as such we don't think that it gets to generalize a context upon the entirety of a country or demographic.
People deserve to have fun in whatever way that they wish, and we think that all you're getting on their side of the house is another example of poor policing, of someone coming in and saying because you are impoverished, because you don't have as much, we're going to set the budgets for you, we're going to tell you where to save money, and somehow we're gonna magically lift you out of poverty.
Like in the end, this isn't the solution.
Sure, people might be spending too much on casinos, but the actual problem is often systematic, and taking away a pleasure is not going to help them at all, it's just going to be exactly that, like taking away a pleasure.
Like this is very similar to people who shame those who are poor for getting haircuts or going out to eat.
Like yeah, because those ten dollars that I spent on going out to eat once a week is like really going to affect my economic situation, it often has much more to do with the way that society views me or targeted advertising.
And I think that you never actually handle it on their side of the house, when you're too busy telling poor people that they're spending too much money on casinos.
Our second area of clash has to do with why lotteries are actually a public good.
So first, as much as tim makes fun of the tax money, this tax money is incredibly important, especially when you grow dependent on this tax existing.
So like we've had casinos with high taxes for years and years and years at that point, like that money is already allocated before it is earned.
And so we think taking it away actually leads to a pretty hard hit to social services, or wherever that money is going, and tim doesn't actually explain to us where he's going to replace it.
He repeatedly calls it a poor tax, we think this is kind of stupid.
A lot of people play the lottery, and we think that it's not necessarily just poor people who do so, like maybe more poor people than rich people do, but this is also just a like demographic population thing, statistically there are going to be more rich more poor people than rich people.
We also think lotteries are often used to raise awareness for a lot of different causes, and that's net good.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.