We should not end targeted killing.
So I think it's important to note that opposition is fine with a world in which we raise the justification bar for for targeted killing.
Like we think a massive problem up till now is that assassination attempts are under gone without any kind of consent from anyone besides the leader of another country and so we think that there probably should be a higher barrier for this like maybe we're fine with having a committee that decides these things, we're fine with requiring targeted killing attempts to first have a meeting between multiple leaders of different stable countries like what we think is important here is the justification for them existing in any form and we're fine with having a deeper conversation about in what form they should exist.
So as long as drew's arguments are less general than just can they exist even in the best form we think we already have an edge there.
Two main areas of clash, first about the state as a justified actor because drew really hangs up on this idea of the state being made up of individuals and therefore individual moral obligations are applicable but the problem with this is that even if the state is made up of individuals we think that the obligation structure for the state is necessarily different than that for an individual human being.
We think that whereas the obligations for an individual are primarily to themselves and for the good of society and therefore are inherently limited by moral and ethical regulations because there is no I answer to someone else prior to I answer to myself and my moral systems.
We think on the other hand the state is actually has actually has the first obligation to the individuals that live under it and we think as such that majorly changes the moral and ethical structures because it prioritize the safety of the citizens above necessarily the safety of other people already making a ethical judgment call from the very beginning.
We think that at the point that there at the point that other world leaders have the potential to be an existential threat to the citizens of a certain country, that country should be able to act defensively insofar as it needs to protect those citizens.
For example, we think it would probably have been cool if someone had assassinated hitler at the time that he was rising to power if only because he was massively oppressing and imposing an existential threat to countries such as poland or france or italy or any of the countries that had attempted to invade and we think that it would have been perfectly justified for any someone from those countries to have come through with the assassination because it was done to protect their own people.
We think this becomes even more justified of an action with globalization because it is not the case that political sovereignty necessarily means political independence.
We think a lot of the time the fates of individual nations are massively tied together insofar as these are oftentimes trade partners and they influence directly the economic structures of states nearby.
And we think that it would be at this point almost as damaging to a country to completely starve all of its citizens and protect and like ruin all of their trade contacts as it would be potentially to kill all of the citizens outright given that all you're doing is providing a slower death.
So we think that insofar as citizens are directly affected by the actions of despotic leaders in other countries, there has to be a way to exact change if a leader is being completely irrational.
I don't think anyone is advocating for assassination to be the first resort that someone uses in the face of oppression, but we think that as a last resort it is actually very useful once the leader has stopped communicating or absconding to the laws of international rule.
Our second area of clash is about stopping human rights violations.
We think that in really undemocratic and dictatorial regimes, leaders don't serve the democratic function of protecting their citizens and thus forego any rights they might have this political sovereign nations.
We also think the fact that they will keep abusing people if they are not stopped means that you ought be able to prevent them from doing this in the form of assassination.
We also think it often acts as a form of deterrence.
Leaders of other countries are less likely to be awful if they are worried about being assassinated.
Once they're undemocratic they clearly don't consider themselves accountable to their people but we think that we can force some sense of accountability to other countries if they're afraid of being unseated.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.