The motion for today's debate is that we should ban gambling.
Before I get into my two independent points, I want to first give you a little bit of context for what gambling industry looks like and how it tends to affect individuals because a lot of the time these aren't just scratch-off tickets that your grandmother gets from a grocery store eventhough we're against those as well.
What these look like are large corporate casinos that focus on making more and more money regardless of the impact they have on the individuals there.
They oftentimes employ techniques specifically to try and keep people there for as long as possible and to make their games as attractive as possible, as well as often dousing the people there with copious amounts of liquor to impair their critical thinking ability and to keep them from trying to leave.
I think what this shows you is that a lot of the time these areas are these casinos are incredibly coercive, even going so low as to advertise specifically in lower income areas because they know these people tend to be more susceptible to these kinds of influences.
Meanwhile, gambling is a very real addiction that affects millions.
It bankrupts families and it destroys lives.
In the same way that any kind of drug might be addictive, we think that gambling sets off the same kind of chemical processes and thus ought be treated the same.
With that, two main areas of clash.
First on why the government has a real interest in keeping these in keeping in banning gambling.
Because one of the ways by which we recognize that our government can ban something is by showing that it has a government interest in that subject.
So, in this situation there are two main areas in which the government has an interest.
First with regards to economics.
When people are spending their life savings on gambling, they aren't providing for their families or putting that money back into the economy or in any kind of productive way.
Because these these casinos tend to be very large corporations spending there doesn't actually trickle down locally.
So you're not supporting local businesses, you're not supporting local jobs, rather you're giving to a monolith and the people at the top take the majority of the money while waiters get paid very very little.
More than this though, a lot of the more than this though if you're going to have a gambling addiction you're oftentimes living paycheck to paycheck and your family, if you have one, gets very little or even nil.
This is why we see that a lot of gamblers are also on things like welfare or medicaid or have families who have to rely on public services because they have because their parents who have addictions cannot provide for them.
So at the point that your first not likely to put this money in productive economic ways but second much more likely to rely on governmental funds, we don't think this is economically good for the government to allow banning to allow to allow gambling.
Second though we think it's also bad for the nation when people are addicted to gambling as it impacts productivity.
If large swaths of your population are addicted to gambling, that's a lot of productivity being lost in that instead of being involved in your family or going out and volunteering or doing anything that might be helpful for society or working more hours at your job, you're just waiting to be done so that you can go and gamble that way.
Even if a tiny portion of this time was spent doing something more productive this would already be preferable.
More than this though we also think it creates cycles in which oftentimes people start alcohol dependencies or drug dependencies in casinos and this decreases productivity into the long term.
Our second area of clash has to do with externalities because the other reason a government can ban something is if they can show that there are very large personal and external harms.
The ban and gambling does exactly this given that is heavily addictive in the same way that drugs, such as meth, are harmful not just to the individual but also to their family the gambling is too.
Given that not only is this person broke but it's also incredibly harmful to any children they might have given that all of their money is being spent and they do not get to spend time with this parent.
It also creates cycles of abuse in that the children of gamblers are much more likely to be prone to gambling addiction than those who aren't.
This tears apart families, it destroys careers, and it ought be banned.
For these reasons, proud to propose.