Don't close guantanamo.
Two main arguments, first on why you need the target to motivate activism.
Guantanamo is a really loud, really public, and incredibly hated institution that individuals have rallied around for years and years in order to enact large scale policy reform on the ways in which we treat criminals and prisoners.
Recognize that everyone hates on this one thing which allows us to create a coherent and cohesive force against the general actions that it contains.
It is not like a like rampage or activism against guantanamo, it is a rampage and activism against what guantanamo does that uses guantanamo as a scapegoat.
So we think the problem that occurs on government's side is they have to explain to us how they gain the same form of activism when you no longer have the main way and main rallying point that individuals use.
I think this is really important because we need to be able to motivate policy change at the root of the US government behavior so that you can create accountability if they break what is now a law at any institution not just at guantanamo.
And this is infinitely more important than returning this land to cuba.
Like clearly cuba doesn't really care, they haven't made any acts against it, they haven't declared that they want it, they haven't asked for it back.
Like we think the part that matters more is being able to do things like rampage against the treatment of terrorists and against the treatment of innocents who happen to be in these organized like in these institutions.
We also just think it's good for the US to have a base there.
Like even if cuba is getting better, it is still the case that it has a lot of actions that can be considered really problematic to the US.
There's still like certain amount of tension between these two areas and we think that having a surveillance point and possibly even a location of neutral ground is really important.
Like this is fine and we don't think it's a big deal and we don't think that drew explained why it's a particularly big deal very well.
But our second or even is about the false sense of solvency because the government can close guantanamo, make a big and public deal about it, talk about how it's a success for like democracy and for the rights of humans and then go ahead and continue the behavior at another less well-known location.
Guantanamo is not the only base where we torture and have unethical treatment of prisoners.
Like these bases exist in other locations even in like like we have bases in puerto rico, we have bases in european countries and the former soviet union.
All of these areas are ones in which the laws are not as strict as in the US in the same like behavior can prevail.
So we think it becomes more important that you can continue to track the US government's behavior at this one base rather than like have to just like pretend that it's all fixed or like have no idea that it's not fixed, even worse, when that base goes away.
Like james talks about optics for a little bit.
Like recognize we're not fooling anyone, right?
Like even if guantanamo goes away insofar as countries generally recognize that this is a way in which prisoners are treated behind closed doors, we think all that happens is that they will assume that we moved it somewhere else.
We also just don't think this is the tipping point in terms of our like the US does a lot of shitty things like it does things like paternalize and bomb syria recently and all of these are like indirect counter to like our own behaviors and our previous actions.
So we really don't think like this one action of keeping guantanamo open, especially when we can justify it by talking about the impact that some of the prisoners in guantanamo had on us, will actually impact the way the world sees us that much.
Proud to oppose.