We should ban breast implants.
That being said, we're not saying that like individuals who maybe had cancer and want to return to the breast size, we think that those kind of implants would be fine.
We also think that like if like if you were a victim of some sort, like if these are medically necessary for any reason, than we're fine.
We're specifically talking about like aesthetic kind of implants.
So three main areas of clash, first on reaffirming the patriarchy.
Recognize that the patriarchy exists as a underlying structure within our society by which men are able to maintain power over women, over their sexuality, over their expression and the way in which it leaks into the workforce, like evaluations of skill.
The concept of larger larger breasts being so attractive that they are worth going under the knife for, worth altering your own body, is entirely a patriarchal concept.
Women don't care what size their breasts are insofar as any size is capable for their needs.
It will breast feed, it will exist, it will get in their way when they're trying to do chores or run.
It is a man's desire pushed onto a woman's body that they need to have large breasts.
It's based entirely on what men are likely to find attractive, it prioritize male male pleasure and perception above personal comfort and personal fiscal security.
It further portrays women as objects rather than agents, with men as there arbiters.
So there's a difference between me being like: " yes, I want big breasts because this is a personal desire of mine, because it will help me self actualize. "
Verses me saying: " I want big breasts because a man will like me more. "
We think the difference occurs within the ways in which people internalize the impacts of their actions.
Whether that impact is on me or that impact is on somebody else.
And we think what happens on their side of the house is that you're continually reaffirming the patriarchy and that it continues the idea that women are objects and men are prioritized above their own safety.
Our second area of clash is about how it's bad for women.
Recognize that it reaffirms the idea that your own pleasure is less important than a man's and that your body is an object for others' pleasure and use.
This is an awful way to feel about your body because there are an infinite amount of things that society can find wrong with it.
But the only way in which you get around not having to alter every single portion of you, not having to be perfectly skinny at all times, not having the right eye color or hair length or hair color, is that you start to accept yourself for who you are.
And we think that they make that world a lot further away on their side of the house when they say: " no like we're fine with continuing to propagate breast implants as like a metric of beauty or a metric of sexual attractiveness ".
Recognize that as more women participate in this it becomes infinitely more glamorized.
It creates an expectation in society that this is how women ought look, it makes young girls be like like have access to this early on, so they feel like they have to have this and like be like this, and we think that continuing this cycle is really dangerous, because women that see this and think that's the only way they can link into attractiveness.
And we think that's very bad both in like a personal self esteem level, like we don't think that any young girl should have the expectation of big breasts before she's even old enough to like, I don't know, take a test.
Moreover, we just think that this becomes a norm in society that is inherently unachievable.
Like it's not the case that the majority of women can look that way, or even ought to look that way.
Which brings us to our third area of clash, which is about why it's bad for society.
Because what happens on their side of the house is that you propagate an expectation.
And this is bad because recognize that there is like a cost barrier here.
Like implants cost money.
And it reestablishes the idea that sexuality and being attractive comes with a price tag.
We just also think that all of the above things can't be like propagated within society.
Like we prefer a world in which young girls are able to love themselves and even older women don't feel unattractive because of their breasts.
Proud to propose.