Don't ban anonymous posts.
Two main arguments, first on why anonymous posts are necessary.
Look, it is really important to recognize that the circumstances that that sam talks about having anonymous posts are not the majority of circumstances in which they are used.
Sure, we agree, sometimes awful people do awful things by manipulating the fact that they are anonymous and allowing themselves to post really awful things from behind the mask of anonymity that the internet offers.
But just because that that minority of individuals exists, doesn't mean you should remove the anonymity of many many many other people who are doing things that are infinitely better.
There are a lot of communities on the internet the depend on anonymity to function, not because they're dangerous communities, but because they're communities for groups of survivors or they have like embarrassing questions on them or individuals have disapproving family members and it's like a sensitive topic that you don't want your name associated with.
It might even be like someone who hopes to get into college or medical school and doesn't want to like the admissions office to be able to google their name and find out that they were playing a certain game or involved in a certain app.
These are really tiny things that are really central to the way individuals self actualize and personally identify.
Like recognize that things like LGBTQ forums, like women's sexual health forums, all of them depend on this idea that they're going to be anonymous so they can't have the information on those forms used against them.
Not because that information is dangerous but because we live in a society that can be really homophobic or really sexist or just plainly really mean and exposing individuals to that kind of bullying is awful.
We think individuals should be able to access the communities that help them self actualize without being forced to show their true name in order to access them in the first place.
We think the world that sam is creating is one in which LGBTQ youth can never find a community that supports them if they live in a homophobic area because they can't use their real name to sign up so they don't sign up at all.
We also just think that people have a right to speech and privacy, both of which get impeded when you require individuals to have their real name because it for a lot of people the silences them because they feel embarrassed or unhappy or just like uncomfortable with the idea of being associated with that name.
And we think that that's a right that exists regardless of the intent behind whatever those individuals are doing.
Like we think of the preservation of nazi speech is also important if only because those individuals are equally valuable to anybody else so treating them differently would be unjust regardless of the intent of their word.
We also just think that you can still do things like subpoena the IP addresses or things like that if you find someone who's actually committing crimes.
We also just don't think you have any impact on the hateful stuff.
It just means that people are going to move to the deep web or non-public communities and do all of this in secret and more than that though, even if they do get rid of it somehow there's still like the people who would be part of this are still going to have those thoughts, right?
Like at least with anonymous forms you're able to know how much of that exists in society in the first place which can be useful for preparing yourself with how to deal with it.
But what happens on their side of the house is that people have no recourse at all to figure out how many of these kinds of populations exist in the first place.
But third, we just think this is a really dangerous system.
Like recognize that stalking and gets a lot worse when individuals' real names are attached to the things that they post like even in the video game community where there's just an awful amount of sexism and sexual harassment if women had to align their real name it would be so much easier to google them and find them and stalk them in reality.
We think this puts entire communities of individuals in a lot of danger like real names linked to the private information of people which increases the amount of issues both with security and private well-being that occur.
Proud to oppose.