The motion for today's debate is that we should ban abortions.
A few things to keep in mind, we think that this is most likely to occur in a world, where there is cheap and accessible birth control, we're not in the habit of arguing, that women should never have rights over their body, we just think that when you have easily preventable methods of birth control before you, you should have the responsibility to not get pregnant in the first place.
Obviously, abortion should also be allowed in situations, where it is life and death for the mother.
So, if not having an abortion means that you will die during childbirth, or will significantly impede your health, we think that abortion is justified in those situations, or in situations of rape, where the person was not consenting to having sex in the first place, we would definitely allow abortions in those situations as well.
Two many areas of clash, first on why life starts at conception.
We tell you that, just because someone begins as a clump of cells, does not mean that those clumps of cells do not constitute life.
If anything, we think that the clump of cells that humans start as constitute a phase of our life, in the same way that I go through the phase of being a teenager, or the phase of being an infant.
What this means more than this though, we tell you that, if you leave that clump of cells alone, the fact that a baby will be born, constitutes that there is life in terms of potentiality.
We think that potentiality also matters, insofar as I have to start somewhere.
Just because you start as a clump of cells, does not take away from who you will become.
Like maybe, I am like currently we think that people like can develop in very amazing ways, we think that just because someone starts off as like one thing, that we acknowledge the way, that they change in the future, still constitutes that person.
More than this though, we think that just because it cannot communicate personhood, does not detract from its personhood.
Recognize, that in current society we give rights to those who are comatose, or mentally lacking, or mentally ill.
And, in so far as we have insofar as these are also groups of people, who are like not very responsive, who are absolutely unresponsive in the majority of the time, and not practically contributing to society at that moment, we think that this is very similar, and you should thus prevent the termination of life.
Our second area of class has to do with why we have special protections, to those who cannot protect themselves.
Because, just because a fetus cannot speak for themselves, does not mean that they don't deserve rights.
If anything, it means that they deserve to have rights more.
The government, in general, was created because we protect the rights of those who cannot protect themselves.
Just because someone is bigger or stronger than me, does not mean that I deserve to have my rights taken away by them, because they can overpower me.
Same goes for a baby.
Just because it is currently incapable of supporting itself, without the help of a mother, does not mean that it does not need to be protected.
As such, its rights need to be legislated, in order to make sure those protections still exist, even when there is not someone there to enforce it.
In a world where where birth control exists, in a way that is easily accessible and cheap, there's no reason that a baby should be able to still occur.
At the point that one does, we think that there is a measure of culpability upon the individual bearing that child, insofar as they consented, like they consented to not using birth control properly, and now this child exists.
We think that at the point that this is true, you want you ought protect these child's rights, given that there are also other options for a mother after birth, that mean that she does not have to take care of the child afterwards.
So, like say that I really don't want to have this baby, after you have it, you can still give it up for adoption, you can still give it up to other people, like, there is no reason that you ought be having an abortion at the point that you don't have to take care of the child in the future, and it is not an economic strain.
For these reasons, proud to propose.