Don't ban multilevel marketing.
The question in this round isn't whether multilevel marketing is good or bad, rather it's whether it is so bad that it ought be banned.
There are plenty of practices that have net negative effects but we can't ban all of them, because people need to be able to make their own informed decision without the government paternalizing all of them.
And for some people, the harms of a particular practice outweigh the benefits, or particular particular harmful actions might benefit subsets of the population, and we think that that is worth it.
For example, we see things like cigarette use, payday loans, these are things that might have really harmful impacts on an individual or societal level but insofar as there are groups that benefit from them, insofar as there are people who enjoy them, these are things that we just think are still worth not banning, because we think that people should make those decisions themselves and because we believe in achieving a world in which they are being used for good rather than for bad.
There are also steps that a government can take to reduce the harms associated with multilevel marketing without having to ban it entirely, things like promoting educational materials about the risks, maintaining databases of companies where marketers have good versus bad experiences.
The accessibility of resources should be much more the government's goal than a ban.
Two main arguments, first on individual choice.
All that matters is that individual people get to make as many of their own decisions as possible.
This is because everybody knows the risks of multilevel marketing, and they often know that people tend to be unsuccessful.
And if they are armed with that knowledge, individuals who still want to participate should be allowed to without the government involving itself in it, because there is a fairly large chance that that person can be successful or that that person can figure this out for themselves, especially since it's not as if these companies are just like one homogeneous mass, rather it is that certain companies are worse than others, and some are just flat out good.
For example, we see that a lot of makeup companies use multilevel marketing as their general model, but we don't see any of the harmful impacts that we often see, say, in like the detox business, where multilevel marketing is much more toxic for the people who have to like perform it, right?
So we think that at the point that there are entire sectors where multilevel marketing is successful, we think that people should be able to access those.
Government might say that multilevel marketing is exploitative and doesn't actually make people any money but, first, we think that these are risks that people should be able to opt into themselves.
But moreover than that, we just think that this kind of falls into that trap where you homogenize multilevel marketing companies without recognizing that some of them are more legitimate than other.
And we don't think this is actually unique from any other type of company, right?
Like even your average, run of the mill like sales company can be more or less legitimate depending on what it is selling.
Multilevel marketing is just a different economic model that often has the same implications, where it is very company dependent whether it is good or bad.
Like there are always going to be scams at the bottom, but it's not fair to punish the more legitimate companies because you want to catch the bad ones.
Instead, we should focus on eliminating the bad ones using other methods.
Our second argument is about innovation in distribution of goods and like company creation.
It makes production distribution cheaper which incentivizes companies to actually produce and sell their goods and give consumers more options.
Like at the end of the day, you have to imagine what an alternative world would be.
Like, first, we just don't think that a lot of these companies would exist and if they did, we don't think they'd be able to hire as many people.
Multilevel marketing allows individual people to succeed on the basis of their own abilities, but it allows those companies to employ significantly more people, because they don't have to pay them wages.
So we actually think it is much better for people who need these jobs and choose to work them when you have multilevel marketing.
Proud to oppose.