The motion for today's debate is that we should ban lotteries.
We think that generally the city is justified in banning something, if you can show massive external harms.
So, we can win this round in two ways: first, by showing you that there are harms to the individual that justify state paternalizing the individual, insofar as they cannot contextualize, or understand, or consent to these harms, or by showing you that it is bad enough for society, that is in the state's best interest to ban this, in order to preserve the function of the state.
Finally enough, these are my two areas of clash: first, let's talk about why it's bad for the person.
We think it's really important to note, that the chemical pathways, that gambling activates, are identical to those activated by smoking cigarettes, taking any kind of drugs, or performing any other addictive behavior.
The cycles of addiction that are started by gambling are ones that ruin families, and actively propagate themselves in the future, and require rehabilitation.
We think that the problem currently is that we don't internalize it the same way, because it takes a different form.
Rather than shooting up, I go to the casino, but the impacts are the same.
And, we think that, if we're banning meth, because it is addictive and harmful, then we ought be doing the same to lotteries.
Second though, we think that lotteries essentially survive by lying to the consumer.
In so far as we can sue for false advertising, and like false advertising is is generally banned, we think lotteries are doing the same thing.
We think that they function by encouraging everyone, and telling everyone that anyone can be a winner, when in reality this just isn't the case, because only one out of a billion people is likely to win the lottery.
And recognize, that these people are still screwed over, because the tax on their winnings are so high, that they don' often don't go home carrying millions, but often walk away with only a few thousand.
We think that insofar these are problematic norms associated, that cause damage to the individual but keep them cycling back to the same thing, and harming their family, both emotionally, by manipulating them, but also physically, by taking money that could be spent on them, we think it ought be banned.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's bad for society, because we think that much the way that cigarettes and drug dealers target low income, oftentimes non white, like small pockets of society, we think that casinos do the same thing.
They purposefully advertise to those who are worst off, because these are the people who are going to be lulled in, by the sense of: maybe I can make it big, maybe I can finally dig my family out of poverty.
We think, insofar as this is true, we ought not be allowing them to do this, because these are the people who also fall prey to it when they can't afford to.
We think it's probably fine, if someone who is working a job that gets them maybe a hundred thousand per year on a salary, if they go and spend some of that on the lottery tickets.
But, when you're earning less than less than twenty thousand per year, you just cannot afford to spend this on lottery tickets.
And we think, the fact this is actively encouraged and allowed to propagate is harmful to these classes of society.
But more than this, we think it redistributes this money up the ladder.
It's bad enough that they're taking advantage of the poor in the first place, the fact that this money then gets cycled back up to casino owners, and the state, and people who are actively richer than these people, we think is really problematic.
Finally though, we want to talk about why billions of dollars, that are going into gambling, would be preferable if they went into society.
We think the spending power that gets siphoned into casinos never sees the like the general market again, because the people who own large casinos often don't live in that same state, and often spend this money in larger sears, on international corporate products.
We think we would prefer a world, in which billions and billions of dollars were used as consumer spending power, within smaller communities, in support of the economy, rather than didn't.
And we think this is actively damaging to the state, when billions of dollars drain through casinos.
Finally though, we think we need to note, that this often bleeds into prostitution, drugs, and other and human trafficking, and other illegal behaviors.
We think the associated norms with gambling are strong enough to ban it in the first place, at the point that it causes people to drugs, like functions as something that buys into human trafficking and prostitution.
For these reasons proud to propose.