The motion for today's debate is that we should ban herbal medicine.
Two main areas of clash: the first on long term efficacy.
So recognize that herbal medicine is always going to be less effective than the than the one that is actually tested and provided by hospitals and professionals.
This is because most of the organic compounds that work have already been incorporated from herbs into proper medication.
So if you're trying to actually fix or cure a condition it will always be more effective not to use the herbal remedy.
This is important because the way that diseases change in mutate mean that even if this might work a little bit, a lot of disease is not covered is not cured completely, and then can mutate and come back stronger.
Or if you don't cure it all the way, it just stays around for much longer and wreaks more havoc in your body so at the end of the condition you are much sicker when you actually gain real treatment.
It's also dangerous because real medicines are less likely to work afterwards.
Because if you have a condition that has gotten stronger over time or a condition that has mutated, and thus no longer responds to your previous medication, it it can become immune to the medication that hospitals offer as well.
This is dangerous because it affects not just the individual who is using the herbal remedy, but rather spreads to other people as well.
Because now this mutated form of the disease is also spreadable through contact or whatever way by which that disease was spreadable before.
So at the point that it can have this very large effect with regards to efficacy, we think that it ought not be permitted.
We also think that it decreases the overall quality of hospital care.
When it doesn't work in when the herbal remedy doesn't work, these people still end up filling the hallways of hospitals and waiting in line to get there.
So now you've made it worse and so your wait time for others is much longer, and because it's much more difficult to treat it is likely that the doctor will have to spend longer with you and you're going to have to spend longer treating it, so like follow up visits, etcetera.
We also think that it makes you more sick in the long term.
If it comes back it's going to do so in a stronger form and a lot of the time there are side effects to herbal medicines that are since they're are very rarely verified as safe for humans, often sold by third party vendors and other such situations.
So, we think that the point that using this and we also think that a lot of the time people can have allergy impacts that they didn't know they had before and so they take this medicine that was supposed to cure one thing, not only did it not work and not only did it cause side effects, but it also created a situation in which they now have allergies to it.
And more than this, it's also very easy to miss-dose because when you're using actual medication, provided to you by a verified provider, you're going to have medication based specifically on your weight and your characteristics.
But when you're going to getting herbal remedies it's a much more guess and check kind of method.
They're not really, like their measuring it out based on past experiences but not necessarily based on scientific fact.
So that can be very dangerous in so far as now you might be taking much more of a compound than you actually need which can make you much sicker in the long term.
Our second area clash has to do with economics both on a personal and a hospital based level.
So on the personal level we think a lot of the time herbal medication specifically targeted at populations that distrust hospitals or are trying to save money.
The problem with this is that it ends up more expensive over time, because not only do you have to buy this herbal remedy but when it doesn't work you're going to have to pay either for more herbal remedy if you haven't learned your lesson yet, or for the actual medication that you were trying to avoid buying from the beginning.
And often times if you made the condition worse or if it changed forms or if you caught something else at the same time, the medications that you have to buy are even more expensive than they previously were or you have to afford a higher dose.
If people avoid this entirely from the beginning, they're actually going to be not only cured much earlier, but paying much less in the long term.
So we think that's enough to ban it in the first place.
Second though, on hospital based economics.
Frivolous diseases mean longer wait time for others and longer time spent by doctors.
Which means they're actually like requiring more money based on your visit with them.
We also think that it wastes hospital resources for no particular reason, which raises the cost.
For these reasons proud to propose.