We should not adopt small modulator reactors.
So, first a clarification.
We don't think it's the case that opposition has to defend a world in which no small modulator reactors exist.
Obviously, on both sides of the house, you will have limited use of this if we live in a world in which nuclear energy is accepted, usually in very hard to reach or rural areas.
The comparative the debate is rather about whether we should have a larger scale increase in the use of the small modulator reactors, so increased funding, increased advertising, telling every household to get their own, etcetera.
We also think that the comparative in this debate is between these small reactors versus actually just having large nuclear power plants that power large cities and like blocks of land all together, all at once.
This is because we are living in a world where clearly nuclear energy has already been accepted, and so the debate is about which one is more efficient.
We're not talking about like are small nuclear reactors better than wind energy or better than oil, like we're talking we're comparing tomatoes to other like larger tomatoes essentially.
So, two main areas of clash, the first on how these reactors are very inefficient when they're small.
This is because when you have lots of small reactors as opposed to one big one, you're using more material.
So, this is both in terms of building materials for the metals that make up the build of the reactor, but also the dangerous stuff, like the uranium and the plutonium, that is contained inside.
This is a problem, both because it means that they are more expensive and thus economically less efficient, but also because you're using resources that otherwise could have been better conserved.
Like uranium is very dangerous and difficult to mine, and like we should probably shouldn't be wasting it when we don't have to.
There's also more energy lost in these systems because when you have many small ones, it means that every individual one is giving off excess heat and like losing its own form of energy rather than in one large one, where you might be losing more energy, but it is less energy lost per like amount of reactant.
We also think that small nuclear reactors are less environmentally friendly than those that are larger.
This is because they they need more material and more long-term maintenance, which actually means that you're going to have, on net, more energy used up on them.
Our second area of clash is that small nuclear reactors are much more dangerous.
First, recognize that they require constant maintenance.
Because they're using very dangerous substances such as uranium and plutonium, and because they are nuclear and like actually have fission going on inside of them, which is an incredibly dangerous mechanism, you're you're you're more likely to have a mistake occur in one of the small nuclear reactors just because there are so many of them and they are so spread out.
Recognize that in the status quo, any nuclear power plant will have a twenty-four seven watch team that isn't like is there just in order to see if something malfunctions.
They also have numerous safe safety mechanisms that go into place if there's a hint of a problem.
But when you have smaller reactors, you just don't have the the manpower to have someone watching them at all times, and so if a mistake occurs, even if you have a few fail-safes, there's much more likely to be a larger problem than with the with a bigger nuclear reactor.
These impacts, however, are still catastrophic because fission is fission, no matter how small, and so you're still going to have like large amounts of radiation and large amounts of lives lost.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.