Don't abandon needle exchange programs.
First recognize that tim depends on stopping drug use for all of his offense.
What this means is that if we show you that you don't actually get less drug use when you don't have needle exchange programs we win the round.
Recognize that needle exchange programs don't encourage drug use because it has been shown empirically that the number of people who use drugs doesn't increase when needle exchange programs happen, rather it's just the number of people who use drugs unsafely.
Tim had to show why the like the why the like most important calculus like part of the individual's decision to stop using drug drugs is the cleanliness of the needle despite the fact that history has shown over and over that individuals just use or reuse dirty needles over and over again.
Like the reason needle exchange programs are necessary is because it does things like stop the spread of viruses and HIV and prevents individuals from leaving their needles lying around outside where individuals can step on them.
Those are the things that are always going to be more important, which brings me to our first independent point, which is about preventing the spread of HIV and viruses.
This is always going to be the most important thing in the round because it is the things that overflow from drug addicts to innocent individuals who never have consumed those drugs.
Also this is most important because people end up relying on the state if they are individuals who didn't have the money to protect themselves or to like support themselves after they've contracted HIV.
These are people who are most likely to rely on government support when it comes to health care or like house care after they spent all their money on their medical bill things like that.
Also recognize that sharing and using dirty needles is one of the largest culprits when it comes to HIV like motion between individuals because it leads to it like literally leads to like different groups of people and like it literally leads to people being able to share one needle and then give that virus to anyone who they happen to be sleeping with or if that needle gets shared around.
Like it's such a bad chain of transmission that we think it's always going to be more important to cut back chain off.
We also just think it leads to super viruses when people get many many strains because they're continually sharing dangerous needles so we think that's also something that has to be stopped.
It harms innocents in other ways as well.
Like when you leave needles in public spaces that kids step on, when you have sex with someone, that those are ways in which even though this is like a policy targeted at drug addicts, it is something that protects innocent individuals the most.
Our second argument is about why this doesn't why he doesn't actually fix anything.
Like he keeps talking tim keeps talking about how people are going to be forced to quit because they don't have any needles to use it but this is literally not true, right?
Like all the signalling effects he talks about about how it normalizes drug use in society go away at the point that drug use is literally still criminalized.
But also we think that addicts are addicted, this is inherently like means that they can't stop because of their circumstances, because they have a chemical connection to the drug that they're using.
Needle exchange programs force interactions with professionals which means they're infinitely more likely to stop using after they've talked to the nice doctor who tells them that they should stop or something similar.
We think what happens on their side of the house is that people who are addicted to drugs have no incentive to ever go into a hospital because there's nothing there for them but when there are needle exchange programs, not only are the removing dirty needles from circulation, but they're interacting with the individuals that can actually help them.
Proud to oppose.