Don't end the use of solitary confinement.
Look, our side of the house is completely open to reform.
We recognize that solitary confinement can be dangerous if misused and is not the optimal way of enforcing good things in our prisons.
But we can reform what solitary confinement is used for and the way in which it can gets it can be used.
Make sure it's for intense transgressions or for situations in which either the prisoner or the rest of the prison population is at large risk, and put limits on how long someone can be placed into solitary confinement in order to avoid the long term mental impacts that drew talks about.
But also recognize that drew doesn't propose an alternative as to how we deal with these kinds of convicts who are belligerent repeatedly or actively dangerous to the rest of the prison population.
All he does in his speech is talk about why solitary confinement is bad, but he forgets to respond at all to the ways in which solitary confinement is necessary.
As long as he does this he cannot win this round, because all of us can recognize that a certain thing might have a list of cons associated but it's not about those cons, it's about weighing them against the pros that potentially exist.
Given that drew didn't even spare a second to discuss those potential benefits, we do not think he can win this round.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining order in prisons.
Solitary confinement is a product of necessity.
You need some way to separate rogue inmates from others for both parties' security.
There is no alternative that functions because anything else would put prisoners that are really dangerous in close proximity to other people thus jeopardizing their lives.
It really sucks that solitary confinement is so harmful to prisoners, but until we get another solution to these situations, there's nothing we can do about it besides try and use it less.
In terms of it being psychological torture, we think that it is really similar to the way that any prison time is, just mildly more extreme.
So even if some experts might say it's super bad, this is just a reason to find out the ways in which you can make it less long term damaging and avoid that, but given that not all solitary confinement automatically results in long term emotional trauma we think that it is okay to continue using it in the forms that aren't going to cause that.
But also recognize that all punishment is torture insofar as it is used to create a long term sustained discomfort in the individual who is being punished.
So when drew thinks these kinds of arguments force him to create the bright line between something like solitary confinement and prison as a general concept in which people are being kept in literal boxes even if they're around others for so long.
In drew's world some prisoners might be less emotionally harmed, but a lot more will be in physical danger because of the types of people that get solitary confinement who will now be free to roam around the general prison population.
We also just don't buy that solitary confinement is that harmful when it happens in short periods.
It might be long term unhealthy if it's for extended periods of time, we agree that's probably unconstitutional, but in the majority of cases it only happens for a few days maximum.
Our second argument is about deterrence.
We have to give prisoners who are prone to violence or acting out a reason to follow the rules.
Providing appropriate punishment that makes the original perpetrator less likely to do whatever they did to get there again is a good way not only to make sure that they behave in the future but also to signal to others that if this is not a treatment that you want, do not engage in the behavior that landed this person in solitary confinement in the first place.
We think this is an effective method of deterrence and we don't want to lose it, especially given that there isn't actually a way in which we can get the same goals with a different method.
Like that method has not been proposed.
Proud to oppose.