We should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
We think that this is probably modeled within the united states, but we're fine like defending this on a global standard.
All of our arguments are generalizable, and we think that, basically, we're just not going to allow any kind of gun ownership.
Like, obviously, BB guns, like small toy guns are fine, but like we think that we draw the line at anything that has bullets that can be dangerous.
Three main areas of clash: first, on security.
I think, first, it is empirically true that countries that have abandoned the right to bear arms show much lower crime rates.
We see this in the netherlands.
We see this in israel.
Like although they still have other forms of violence, knife, etcetera, there is nothing quite as deadly as like a gun in its ability to kill you much more quickly or even if you're not effective at using it, and so we see that gun violence like decreased considerably and as such, the like amount of damage that someone suffers has also decreased considerably.
So the crimes that they do have tend to be non-lethal a lot more.
This logically makes sense, right?
Like it is infinitely easier to hurt someone with a gun than it is with almost any other item, including a knife.
Like, it doesn't require the same kind of short-range interaction that a knife would have that is more likely to put the assailant in danger as well.
It is much less likely to be utilized in gangs and things like that.
Like, we think the problem, on their side of the house, is that they are always defending an article that has been created for the destruction of other people, and so the problem is that even when you are trying to use it in non-lethal ways, even when you are trying to license gun owners, once you don't ban it entirely, it is always likely to slip through.
Like we think that once it's banned, it's it's a lot easier to regulate it en masse, because then you don't have to deal with things like forged licenses or like unregistered weapons, like these kinds of things stop mattering at the point that nobody is allowed to have any.
Like we think even if you don't buy any of that logically, we think the fact that accidental deaths happen with guns is just enough to win the round already.
Like the fact that a five-year-old can take a gun and shoot someone on accident and hurt them, even when they didn't mean to, is enough reason to abandon all gun rights entirely, because it means that there are always going to be innocents who are harmed in the process, and we just don't understand what the benefit of guns is in the first place.
But secondly, we want to talk about the culture of violence, because we think that america is specifically a country that has glamorized guns beyond belief.
We are the country of freedom and the right to own a gun and people will defend that to the end, even if it costs lives, even if it has large amounts of school shootings.
Like we think this seeps into our schools, it sheeps into our children, it normalizes incredibly dangerous behavior.
Like, we think the problem on their side of the house is that when you establish this is a right, you're essentially establishing the right of individuals to be violent and the right of individuals to defend themselves in the face of violence.
But what it means to defend yourself or when a gun ought be used is still up to every single individual making that decision.
So, we think that what happens on their side of the house is that you're always going to have more violent behavior because you've built it into the system of laws that we have.
So, no, no like they don't get to complain when they end up with columbines or other school shootings, because this is the culture that you have created and this is the culture that you are propagating.
We also think this has a really important implication when it comes to police.
Like we think a large reason that police are trigger-happy is because they're afraid of the other person having a gun.
And if you don't have that fear, if you know that this person was unlikely to be able to obtain a weapon then because it's illegal, then you're less likely to be trigger-happy.
But even if you're not less trigger-happy, the way that it stands up in court also matters in that it is a lot more difficult for police to use this fear as a defense when the jury can just say, " well, guns are illegal, so this fear was irrational in the first place.
Like, this isn't an excuse. "
So we think that in a country that like struggles with police brutality, this becomes very important.
Proud to propose.