Two main areas of clash as to why we ought not be implementing organ markets and organ trade.
First let's talk about coercion.
Because will talks a lot about how people need to be able to make free and autonomous decisions that maximize autonomy.
And we agree, people should be able to exercise autonomy.
But part of exercising autonomy is being able to make those choices free of other influences and based on your personal desires and your personal weighing mechanisms.
But organ trade and giving away your organs for money, wouldn't be a free choice for millions of people.
Recognize that when you were in situations where you feel like you have very little possible outcomes or possible outlets, and you don't know what to do and maybe there's an economic deadline coming up, such as rent, you feel massive amounts of economic and familial pressure to act in a certain way.
We can paternalize this because of the long term physical harms and cost.
There's not actually a way for someone who's twenty years old to say: " okay, I know for a fact that sixty years from now I'm not going to need this organ. "
Especially given that there are often massive misinformation campaigns specifically created to keep youth from to keep to to get young people specifically to donate their organ, to sell their organs.
So at the point at this will severely limit the way that you can live your life in the future, IE maybe you won't be able to have kids, or maybe you won't be able to exercise to the same degree which is what occurs with giving out your kidney, or it puts you at a risk for other diseases in the long term, we don't think that this is a choice that someone can make completely autonomously currently.
We also have a lot of examples in which autonomy isn't infinite, and we do paternalize people, if we think that the potential harms are too high.
Many countries have banned surrogacy specifically because it was a very coercive and dangerous industry that uses women for their bodies.
And we think the same happens when you commodify the bodies of the organs of individuals and force them to start and force them into situations in which they feel pressured to sell them.
We also think the problem in part here is that if I'm rich and I don't need to, it is very unlikely that I'm ever going to sell my organ, because I can just afford to pay my rent and other bills.
So all you're having in the situation is a bunch of rich folks buying the organs of those who are poorer and in worse situations than themselves.
And will is really worried about the black market, but the problem with this is that legalization will always cause a rise in the numbers.
So all will actually indicates is that we need better regulation.
He doesn't actually explain why organ trade in and of itself is good.
Like maybe we're going to have safer surgeries, but he doesn't account for the fact that people are going to be more more coerced.
Our second area of clash is why this is just a less preferable system.
Because organs shouldn't be something that people have to pay for because they define whether you get to live.
Allowing a market to exist chases out most of those free donations.
Why would you donate when you can sell and actually get paid for it?
This makes it so that only the rich can afford it and so you're still going to have millions and millions of people dying on wait lists when you diminish the like even worse then the status quo, when you cause there to be even less organs that are given for free.
The question is just are those people both rich and poor, or just poor?
We prefer the current system because it doesn't monetize all organs and make it impossible for specific demographics to get access to life giving organs when they actually need it.
Wait lists are awful but they're egalitarian and this system isn't.
We also think that on our side of the house you're much more likely to access long term reform such as having opt out systems instead of opt in systems for organ donations, where rather than stating whether you want to be an organ donor, you just state, you have to opt out and say that you will not be an organ donor.
For these reasons proud to oppose.