When the motion for the debate is that we should adopt mobile payments, it means that gov has to defend that mobile payments become the norm.
So, it is clear that in society we have multiple options.
The question becomes what option ought be used more.
So, when will says it becomes one of your options, he doesn't truly prove to you why it is preferable to others, or why it should be en mass adopted.
Our side of the house says, that you can have mobile payment as an option, but it is not the best one, and thus society should not adopt it as its primary mode of transferring money between groups.
Two many areas of clash, first on security.
So, will paints the story of how cards are so easy to hack into and steal, and how cash is easy to steal, and how mobile payments are so hard to hack.
The problem with this is that it's not true.
It is infinitely easier to hack an app such as venmo, or google wallet than a bank, insofar as they often have less encryption, and less safe transfer between groups over wifi, et cetera.
Banks are created with the sole purpose of protecting your money, and these apps aren't, only with the soul transfer of money.
More than this though, when your card get stolen, you can call your bank and they will close it immediately.
If your cash get stolen, yeah it sucks, but at least it is only a finite portion of your like overall money, rather than everything in your account.
However, if your account gets hacked, if someone gets a hold of your password, it's not just that they have to like it's it's not always as hard as having to hack the entire phone, sometimes it's as easy as keeping a key tracker, or it's like a small virus that will transmit data, and all you have to do is lock into venmo, or lock into google wallet, and often times the other person will not even get a notification, that there is another one using their account.
So, you are not going to be able to call any company, oftentimes you won't even realize that it has happened until it is too late, if your phone gets stolen, well then you're definitely screwed, if you don't shut down your accounts right away.
So, we think on a security basis will is just incorrect, and it is more secure to use in means such as a card, and such as a bank account transfer, given that these are a mean specifically created to be protected, and like protect you.
Our second of clash has to do with how it promotes tracking, and other unsavory activity.
So, sure the common person is not tech savvy, and probably won't be able to adopt mobile payments to be untraceable, but will is wrong.
Using mobile payments like big coin, which can which can be made untrackable, means that it is easier to hold ransom remotely, and means that it is actually easier to commit crime with mobile payments, insofar as there is no drop off point, and it is a lot harder to get police involved, and you have to truck like the mobile footprint, rather than finding the physical person.
We think, as such, it is actually easier to commit crimes with mobile payments.
Moreover, we don't understand why he assumes that government tracking is good.
We tell you that it violates a person's privacy, and that their spending data oftentimes gets released, and puts them in situations, where they have targeted advertisements, or like targeted selling to them, based on their data, and based on their payments.
We don't think that people ought be subject to this kind of tracking, and thus it should not be a norm, that children are grown into.
They ought be presented with all of their options, and then maybe they get to choose the one where the government tracks them more.
Our third last bit of information, we think is important, is that it's harder for people to track how much they spend, when they're spending it using something like google wallet, or venmo, and it is as easy as like pressing a button.
We think that people have already internalized, over time, that a card or bank account transfer, like these things are often much more difficult to use, and force you to consider what you're spending your money on, we think the risk is much higher for the individual with like mobile payments, and thus we should protect individuals, and not have them adopt this norm.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.