The motion for today's debate is that we should ban hate sites.
We mean by this is that the government would ban and take down any kind of website that promotes hate speech, racist speech or sexist speech, or anything that is like definite defined in like the legislature as hate speech.
Three main areas of clash, first on government signaling.
The way that the government lays the laws and then forms and then like enforces them forms individuals' behaviors into the long term.
A really good example of this is that although segregation was an incredibly unpopular policy government enforcement forced people to go along with it and change public opinion into the long term.
Like if you post a question now to the united states about whether or not segregation is good or bad the vast majority of them would say it's really bad eventhough like fifty years ago that wasn't the response.
On the opposite end of the spectrum, we saw that trump's election and racist policies allowed some of the most hateful displays of speech that we've ever had before.
Like for example the charleston riots were massively allowed to happen because they weren't afraid of anything being enforced against them because they knew that the current government was on their side and was willing to support for them and apologize for them.
If the government bans hate sites, it signals that that behavior is unacceptable and that's really important because it means that we'll see less of that behavior being exhibited.
People see it as more of a risk to say and do things according to like hatefull ways of thinking and so they don't do it as often.
It also signals to those targeted that the government is on their side that they can trust them which is also really important in building like long term solvency of like I'm willing to communicate with my government, I'm willing to report criminal activity, I'm willing to take an active part in voting, etcetera.
Like all of that happens when individuals feel connected to their governments.
Our second area of argumentation is about targeting recruitment because op will come up here and they're going to say that we're just pushing sites underground and we're fine with that.
We think that this is true that individuals are probably just going to go on a deep web and have these organizations there but we're fine with that because we're worried more about the accessibility of the sites since that's how people on the margins are going to get recruited.
Look, super duper racists are going to be super duper racists on both sides of the house.
That's just going to happen because we already see those people aren't groups that want their opinions changed or can have their opinions changed.
The question is if a dumb thirteen year old can get on to the sites and get brainwashed then do we see that as an acceptable thing that ought be promoted within society.
We think that that's exactly how young racist replenish the ranks of those who are dying off.
We think that like what happens is that they're able to easily access this kind of media like easily access people who believe in these kinds of things and the only way in which you stop that accessibility is by forcing these individuals out of the public sphere out of the public eye.
If they all die out or at least there are dramaticly less of them then that's a win.
Our third area of argumentation is about protecting individual rights.
It prevents people from having to see these sights because they accidentally clicked on a page or someone sent it to them which we think is actually a ridiculously common occurrence right like someone is targeted by like their peers because they're a person of color or something and so they get sent really hateful messages and like very hateful links and so we think that like on our side of the house you no longer have to be subjected to that which is actually really important because op is going to come up here and they're going to be like the right to free speech and they're going to talk about it but the right to free speech isn't absolute.
We see this with things like libel and slander where even though these are words that I'm saying it's not inherently my right to say them insofar as they harm other people.
We think that hate speech is really really similar because it harms other people, because it makes them feeling unsafe when they want to say something.
For all those reasons like we don't think that this is something that is like a valuable or protected way of like exhibiting your freedom of expression.
These sites cause violence a majority of the time also insofar as they are used to like make people feel more violent towards certain groups, they're used to gather and organize and all of these things are very real rights violations that far extended a violation of them being able to type this.
Proud to propose.