We should increase tax credits.
The model for this is really simple.
We think that in a choice between adding deductions or adding tax credits, we would prefer tax credits.
Which the difference is just that rather than having a deduction being some percentage of the amount of money that you owe not being owed anymore.
A tax credit is just subtracted from your end total tax liability.
And we think that we should have more of those and in a decision between the two we should choose credits.
Two main arguments, first on why it is better for the people.
Tax credits reduce your taxes dollar for dollar, while standard deductions only decrease taxes within an individual's marginal tax rate.
So an individual in the fifteen percent tax bracket would say fifteen cents for every marginal tax dollars ducted verses with a credit when you reduce liability by the full dollar.
This is great because it means that the people who are qualifying for these tax credits are getting more money off their taxes which they definitely need economically, and the government doesn't need as much.
Because recognize the kind of class of individuals we;re talking about when it comes to collecting taxes here.
We're not talking about the millionaires who when they avoid taxes literally take away thousands and thousands of dollars from the government.
We're talking about people who don't earn that much in the first place and the money that they provide via tax revenue is not even that high and certainly not so high that it makes up for the fact that this money is needed more by them than by the government.
Deductions just don't cover enough because they operate on percentages which leaves a fairly sizeable middle ground of people for who the percentage doesn't give enough but still are not well off enough.
It's analogous to the way that a lot of the middle class get screwed on college financial aid because they're too rich to qualify but to poor to pay for the college the way that they are asked to.
We think that the government needs to have a better way of adjusting to individual needs than they have in the status quo and we think that tax credits set us on that right path.
That it's better for the government to offer tax credits instead of deductions because of the way that they operate and because of the benefit that they provide to these people.
Because recognize it it's not like these tax credits just go to these people and then the money sits there and doesn't do anything.
Like this is money that then goes back into people's pockets and gets spent within the economy and leaves people feeling more comfortable and more secure which has all kinds of overflow economic benefits for the functioning of society as a whole.
Our second argument is about why it's a better mechanism than deductions.
First it is less confusing than tax deductions.
People can figure out if they meet the qualifications for tax credits rather than having to dig through different deductions and then not have a good idea of how much the deduction lowers their overall tax burden.
In the status quo the fact that deductions are in percentages often means that people can't tell how much money it's actually going to subtract from their overall.
But with tax credits it's a set dollar amount that people can much more easily do the math on at the end.
This also gives people a better idea more immediately.
With tax deductions you often have to wait until the very end when you received your money to figure out what your final tax burden looks like.
Tax credits are easier for one person to figure out themselves which allows people to plan more effectively.
It also allows the government to more effectively allocate niches.
It allows the government to set limits on how much money someone will have deducted from their overall tax burden which will then make it easier to allocate more credits into different niches without being worried about making someone's tax burden undeservedly light.
What we mean by this is that in the status quo there are often situations in which someone might qualify for a deduction but what happens then is because their overall income is still higher the government might not be so comfortable with having that deduction exist in the first place because it might benefit people who don't need that benefit in the same way.
But with tax credits because it's a set amount of money that gets subtracted at the end you're more comfortable supplying that to people because it's not a percentage that changes with the amount of money you earn, rather it's just at the end here's how much we subtract and so it's just an easier like the government doesn't feel like they're maybe losing more money off of it then they're earning when someone qualifies for a deduction but still makes a lot of money.
Proud to propose.