Don't close landfills.
First I want to address danny's argument about how this is an incentive to be lazy.
Recognize that even if this is true, which we don't think it is, it doesn't change in danny's world because we already make recycling available and can increase the availability and encourage recycling more on both sides of the house.
But given that danny still provides incineration as an option for people who don't want to recycle or for people who have things that are non-recyclable, people don't face a meaningful pressure to change the way that they throw out their trash.
So danny's best case scenario is that maybe people marginally recycle more on their side of the house, but they're also releasing all of these really bad emissions via incineration.
But what we actually think happens is that our side of the house is going to recycle a significantly more because we can do the same kind of policies that push for recycling and people will respond much more favorably to the idea that they're keeping things out of landfills than to the idea that they're keeping things out of being burned.
This is because we've spent literal decades building up the idea that landfills are bad and that they're poisoning us and poisoning our land, but we haven't done that with things like incineration.
So we're always going to have a better response of people trying to avoid landfills than incineration even though the harms of both are relatively similar.
Two main arguments, first on why there are no alternatives and that it creates necessity.
Recognize that danny's alternatives are a lie.
We can already do the recycling of all recyclable objects and incineration can't be used to produce energy efficiently as danny just asserts that it can be.
And it also creates more emissions than it does benefits, because when you burn something you're releasing all of the gases that were trapped inside and you're breaking down all of these particles that oftentimes release toxic gases.
Yeah landfill emissions suck, but all trash disposal involves the release of gases and chemicals.
For example, burning trash does the same thing as landfills but all of it just goes into the air.
Shooting it into space creates space pollution that can have long term impacts.
Sure landfills aren't ideal, but they are one of the things that we know most about.
It is easier to do things to prevent those items that are going to cause pollution from going to the landfill in the first place than to revamp the whole system.
We should focus on decreasing the use of disposable items, incentivizing recycling and compost, and looking for more environmentally secure materials to make things from.
We can incentivize sustainable methods on both sides of the house.
The question is whether we use landfills for the stuff that we can't compost, recycle, or reuse.
Unless government chose a meaningful alternative that doesn't have similar harms to landfills, so something aside from their whole incineration conversation, they don't provide a compelling reason to change the status quo.
Our second argument is that it is cheaper.
People need to be able to afford trash disposal otherwise trashes piles up near living communities and causes pollution in the local water supplies, streets, and ground.
Landfills might not be ideal but they're the most cheap and available form of trash disposal that we've been trying out for decades.
We will always prefer this to having trash pile up in public spaces because it would just magnify all the issues we have with landfills right in the backyard of the average person.
It does things like raise the rates of illness and birth defects of the people who live there as well as it being just unaesthetically unappealing and causing the property value to decrease when you have more of it around.
Also recognize that the price rising if you abolish landfills is just inevitable because you're going to have to build all the infrastructure for this new way of getting rid of your trash and you're going to have to reroute people to the new companies that take that kind of thing over.
We think those companies are going to put that cost on to the consumer which will result in higher prices.
Proud to oppose.