The motion for today's debate is that we should make abstinence-only sex sexual education mandatory.
A little bit of modeling: we think that we're in the united states, and we would say that every ninth grade would have a mandatory class that would preach abstinence-only as their main form of sex education.
So, they would talk a little bit about the human body, and then at the end say that the way that you do not get pregnant and stay safe and prevent HIV and other diseases is by not having sex at all.
What but we are not regulating if a school wants to offer multiple classes, then the sex ed abstinence-only one will be mandatory, and children might be able to choose in addition, in a future year, to take one of the others, we think that's fine, even though probably unlikely.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why this is better than no sexual education and why no sexual education is usually the result in schools that do not take up abstinence-only.
Because recognize that most schools currently don't offer real sex ed, because there are conservative constituents, parents, faculty, that don't appreciate it.
And at the point that they try to have a more liberal sex education and they don't get away with it, they usually end up with having nothing at all, because a lot of them are very stubborn.
So what we provide is a sexual education that no one is going to oppose.
People can still learn about their bodies, it just ends in telling people that abstinence only is the only way to prevent like definitively prevent pregnancy or diseases, which is technically true, and we don't think it's actually a problem for children to be learning this.
It also keeps people from pulling their kids out of school because they don't want them to have a liberal sexual education.
We think a lot of the time in very conservative areas, you do have people who are more willing to take their children out of schools than to have them listen to why sex isn't necessarily evil.
And we think that we owe it to these people to protect the the kids' learning first.
Given that the purpose of school is to educate individuals, we think we're always going to prioritize keeping people in those schools so that they can learn all of the other subjects.
Our second area of clash is that in the end, sexual education isn't the role of the school.
Schools teach academic facts whereas sex is an intimate topic that most kids don't feel comfortable talking to adults about.
Schools shouldn't be forcing them into these in-depth discussions or difficult situations in which they're sitting in a coed classroom that is discussing intimate parts of their bodies, and we think it can actually impede someone's ability to learn if they're feeling very uncomfortable in one class to learn in others.
And so, we think that they're going to actually receive more comprehensive sexual education from the internet that is actually tailored to their needs.
This is especially true given that schools can never personalize sex ed to each person whereas abstinence-only is pretty much one-size-fits-all.
Even if I'm a non-binary lesbian, not having sex is still the only certain way that I might be able to not contract any diseases, but having a heteronormative, liberal sex ed class might actually be more dangerous to me, because I'm going to have a very like impeded view of the world in which heteronormativity dominates the way that I think.
And so, we actually prefer a world in which they can get this extra information from their parents and the internet, because it's going to be more comprehensive.
Our third area of clash is about resource allocation.
Because right now especially, we see that public educational systems are struggling with money, and they often have to choose between the programs that they have to cut.
And it's a lot easier to have a couple of classes that say " do not have sex ", than to have multiple intensive classes that are going to talk about different ways that you have sex or how to be safe.
Like, in general, it's just a lot longer and more drawn out and difficult.
And so we prefer that they spend this money on real classes and educational materials, and they shouldn't be wasting kids' time when they could be building resumes for colleges and jobs.
Like we think that one time slot out of a day is actually a lot, and we prefer for them to be as little as possible so that kids can actually have more time to do their education-based things.
For these reasons, proud to propose.