We shouldn't adopt teacher reform.
James is wrong.
Teacher tenure doesn't mean it's an automatic lifelong job.
Sure, it is difficult to fire someone who has tenure, comparatively to someone who doesn't, but we think that, still, even when there is tenure, if you demonstrate just cause, that teacher can still be fired, but we think that it is a good thing that there is a higher standard to meet before you can fire them.
Even if there are harms to teacher tenure, we think the fact that this is a protective measure outweighs everything else because teachers are often at risk and treated poorly.
So, even if sometimes there are bad outcomes and you have apathetic teachers who don't teach, who have tenure, we think that the fact that these reforms will be weaponized by schools in an incredibly problematic matter outweighs everything else, because we'll take some bad teachers as long as teachers en masse are still protected.
Two main arguments, first on protecting teacher jobs.
Teacher tenure prevents schools from arbitrarily firing teachers to cut costs or because of politics.
Not having to worry about job security allows teachers to focus on teaching, extracurriculars, and if they have it, research.
More importantly, it protects the financial parts of all of these agreements as well.
Teachers with tenure can't get their wages slashed in the way that a lot of younger teachers often do, because eduation spending is constantly getting cut by federal and state governments which oftentimes gets rebounded onto teachers rather than onto things like school boards or superintendents, which is incredibly problematic because it is often those school boards and superintendents who actually have the money to be to like have their wages slashed, but they still take it out on teachers who have less opportunities and less wages in the first place.
It also affirms job security by eliminating the need for an employment contract.
In the status quo, if you do not have tenure, schools will have a contract with you that is often renewed annually, so you find out if you're going to be hired for the next year at the end of the first one.
And the problem with this is that oftentimes schools can just allow contracts to expire and not renew them, so even though they didn't actively fire the teacher during the time of the contract, they essentially still fired them because they chose not to renew them.
This is really problematic, first, because this can happen without a warning.
They just let the contract expire.
But second, because if you're constantly worrying about your job security, you're not doing things like working to your best ability, or teaching students, or being as innovative as you could be.
Having tenure means you don't have to worry about not having your contract renewed.
It also strengthens unions by keeping the same teachers around and lending cohesiveness and strength to teachers unions.
When james says he's protecting the financial situations of schools, he's saying that he's fine with the school having more money at the cost of teachers having a livable wage, which we think simply is not the way these weighing frameworks should work in the first place.
We think that that schools oftentimes don't have money, because superintendents and school boards are sucking that money up or because the federal and state government won't provide them with money, which means that solutions to these situations should be doing things like pushing for reasonable education policies or other kinds of political change that result in more money funneled into those groups, not by continually slashing people's budgets, given that these individuals have to survive on this money and on this wage.
They also discourage teachers from going into teaching in the first place, because it makes teaching a higher risk activity.
So you just won't get the same kind of innovative and passionate people who enter the field at all.
Our second argument it that it's better for students.
James' argument about how some teachers don't care is non-unique.
There are plenty of young new teachers that are also bad and unhelpful, but we have a higher percent chance that a more experienced teacher will be better, because they've had more experience because they've been there for a while, and now because they aren't afraid of being fired.
Moreover, evaluating teachers based on student performance is actually awful.
Standardized tests are arbitrary and prevent students from truly learning.
So teachers won't be able to pay specific attention to specific students who need extra help because they're busy generalizing to the whole.
We also encourage teacher advocacy on student behalves, because they know that their jops aren't at risk, so they're more willing to go to battle for their students, unlike a younger teacher who is worried about being fired.
It's also let it also lets teachers teach controversial topics, things like holistic sex education, a more realistic historical perspective, and evolution and more conservative or religious schools can only happen with tenure.
Proud to oppose.