The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit sustainable energies.
By we, we would mean any given government.
We think this is a good idea for any of them and we would just say like this could come in the form of putting more money into those like fields, subsidizing scientists who are willing to work on that, opening government departments, etcetera.
Like any method by which we actually use sustainable energies and encourage the use of sustainable energy.
With that, three main areas of clash, first on why it is a or two main areas of clash first and why it is a necessity both physically and environmentally.
But physically, recognize that we are running out of fossil fuels.
We're using them up at a faster rate than they are created and moreover, humans are multiplying at an alarming rate in and which makes it impossible to supply it to so many.
This especially becomes true even with invention of things like fracking, as developing countries become developed and spread electricity wider across countries that previously didn't have it.
So even if we're okay for now with like developed countries as they stand, insofar as like large portions of africa are starting to develop, like large portions of the middle east like etcetera etcetera, we think that it becomes infinitely more important that we start to be sustainable.
Because we're about to add double, triple the load of what we are currently using on earth.
Recognize also that sustainable energies solve this problem because they often overlap with renewable sources.
That can more cheaply and efficiently provide power to large amounts of people.
Like at the end of the day if we start doing things like exploiting the fact that it never gets dark in certain regions of the world and using solar panels there, or exploiting the fact that at really high altitudes it's almost always windy, we can do things like put large amounts of windmills up or exploit river currents to power using water.
Like these things are all within our grasp.
The problem is that we haven't chosen to exploit them yet.
But also and and recognize that they can supply infinitely more people insofar as like oil has this like given boom for the buck, but if you're able to set up large amounts of windmills large amounts of water turner's, than all of this becomes a multiplier by which we can support more and more people.
But also recognize that's an environmental necessity.
When people say we are about to reach the ultimate heat death of the universe this is not a lie.
Recognize that global warming is a very real threat that continues as we burn more and more fossil fuels and they produce more and more methane and other toxic gases.
So we need to solve this before something like literally death of the universe occurs.
And the only way that we can do that is by doing things like relying on sustainable energies and encouraging entire populations to switch to it.
Like recognize that these kinds of changes don't happen over night.
Especially in a world where we've primed large oil dealers and large oil companies to have monopolies on energy to lobby our government's etcetera.
The only way that we get over it had self imposed hump where they have the majority of the power, is to take some of that power away and give it to companies that will produce sustainable energies.
But our second area of clash is about how it's good for the economy.
This happens in a couple of ways: first in that it's just like creates jobs.
Like by virtue of being a new field of energy, by virtue of having to have factories that push out these that push out more and more of these products, like even if we're just creating windmills, even if we're just doing all that, like that creates factory jobs like blue collar jobs.
But also jobs in more higher up sectors.
Like we have more and more people entering stem fields than ever, and one of the things that they can do is go and work on these kinds of technologies.
So in in countries that often have large unemployment rates this would be especially beneficial because we take some of that population and put them into this.
But also recognize that research in general is really good for the economy insofar as it can do things that create niches that you can trade with other countries.
So if the US is capable of becoming a like a group that has access to research and development that other countries don't, then they can more quickly develop the goods that will become more desired as they become cheaper and more necessary in the way that sustainable energies are.
Proud to propose.