The motion for today's debate is that we should increase internet censorship.
What we mean by this is that we would like for there to be solid definitions set by state agencies for regulations on hate speech, illegal activity, sites that encourage mental illness such as those that are like pro or pro self-harm sites and that this would like occur as like a censorship of content that someone could like click to remove if necessary like some kind of barrier censorship.
Two main areas of clash, one on the ineffectivity of current censorship.
A lot of things that are currently supposed to be unavailable to kids are not in that all they have to do is like click an enter button to still access the site.
If we were able to remove this content we would be able to protect children and other individuals that do not desire to see it or accidentally ended up on that site.
This isn't even about porn on porn sites as much as pornographic or hateful elements hidden in seemingly safe sites.
For example, on youtube certain people post automated content that is created by aggregating content on the internet via an algorithm and a lot of this ends up being really really hateful because a lot of the internet is dominated by dark corners in which people discuss incredibly racist or incredibly xenophobic or really really violent things that probably ought not be discussed.
But and like even if you don't buy that there's a lot of content producers that do this on purpose.
They overlay sexual and racist themes on animated characters that target children and when these pop up in cues parents don't really know to prevent it because it looks really harmless and it looks like something really familiar or has the name of a familiar cartoon.
We think that there's a lot of garbage on the internet and regardless of whether or not individuals have the right to spew garbage I think we ought be protecting those who do not necessarily want to view it but are forced to because a simple click can push you into a world that you never consented into entering when it comes to the internet.
Our second area of clash however is about creating safe spaces.
There's a problem where forums like reddit, tumbler, etcetera become a cesspool of hate speech sometimes becoming forums for planning attacks, meetings, and other incredibly rights violative activities against people of color, women, muslims, etcetera.
This ups the amount of fear and attacks individuals and makes them feel incredibly unsafe and what the government is currently doing is that it prioritizes the right to free speech over the right of individuals who are feeling unsafe and like have the right to like have their own speech and we think that in situations of competing speech claims the question is just whether or not one group is being utterly silenced as compared to the other.
We think that the right to spew nonsense and garbage and hateful things at other individuals is not a right that is infinite.
We think that we often see these regulations occur in schools or universities or in a lot of public spheres where we know that large concentrations of individuals from other diverse backgrounds are going to be and we do this to protect those people because we recognize that they are often disadvantaged by society and not given the tools with which they could protect themselves.
And so we think that it's really important to make sure that these people don't have to like prioritize other people's right to be hateful over their own right to have speech or like even live peacefully.
It's also true that in cases of sites encouraging mentally and physically damaging behaviors.
There's a lot of pro anorexia and pro self-harm sites that target people with mental illnesses and purposefully either because like the creation of a mental illness or the relapse into it.
We think it's really problematic when fifteen year old girls can look up a hash tag on tumblr and stare at people who are calling themselves beautiful who are painfully thin and like to the point of death and to the point of incredible illness and like glamorize that for themselves.
And we think that regulating these things isn't taking anything away from society.
If anything it adds back the individuals that would have been tied up in these kinds of communities and would have been harmed by them.
For these reasons, proud to propose.