Don't end child benefits.
Government probably talked about how expensive child benefits are, but we think that there are plenty of expensive things that are worth paying for.
So expense on its own can't be a reason to end these programs.
We can also do things like scale these benefits in a need-based manner and do other things to decrease costs.
So saying just, " look, it is expensive, we can spend this money elsewhere, " is not enough to win this debate.
Gov also probably talked about how people shouldn't be having children if they can't afford them and that these benefits encourage careless breeding, but we don't think this is a fair argument.
Insofar as people are going to have children they can't always take care of, the next step is just whether we're going to do something to protect those kids or help those people.
The debate today is going to be about showing why we should.
The other issue, we think, with government bench's argument here is that a lot of the time, in these situations, it's not about people actively choosing to have children on the basis of like their economic future, so we don't think that the existence of child benefits makes people more likely to have kids.
Rather, we think that sometimes people have accidental pregnancies, or think that they'll be able to afford a child and then they can't, or any number of other situations, but individuals who don't want children aren't going to have them.
It's about people who end up in these situations on accident.
Two main arguments: first, on promoting good childcare.
Generally a government it's generally a government interest to make sure that children are taken care of decently, especially because it often rebounds on the government when they aren't.
For example, neglected or unfed children often end up relying on government programs that have to remove them from their main family and provide them with these basic necessities, and those programs are absurdly expensive, because of the amount of people that you have to pay wages for them and the amount of paperwork and like bureaucracy that is involved.
And in this way, child benefits literally just prevent a similarly more expensive and more energy-intensive expenditure and, additionally, the personal trauma that children often go through when they get caught in those systems.
So it shouldn't be something that we end.
Child benefits also let parents afford their kids, which is really important because it means that the family is less likely to have to choose between different necessities when they are in financial difficulties.
It provides some fiscal flexibility which prevents desperate actions that are bad for the family, things like constantly moving around, pawning goods, taking up jobs that are really really bad for like the parents doing them, things like that.
Child benefits also decrease child abuse and familial tensions at the point that they decrease a stressor that often influences parents' violent tendencies or the amount of anger that they have, which is also good because it just means that you get less traumatized adults in the long term.
Our second argument is about long-term games gains.
First, it just means that the government is saving money in the long term.
As we told you, neglected children and broken families often have to rely on government resources and if you're just providing child benefits to alleviate those situations earlier on, you're never going to have to rely on them.
Moreover, remember that children who have to go through these systems often end up massively traumatized and just don't have the same probability of success in society as children who don't.
So it's not just about helping like the parents in that moment, it's also about not letting those children end up in situations where they can't be functioning adults.
And along the same vein, we think the fact that these children now grow into productive adults means that they're better for the country in the long term.
Proud to oppose.