Don't abolish primary elections.
Two main areas of clash, first on why they're good for democracy.
First recognize that not having primary election prevents the development of better and more representative candidates.
This is because primaries filter candidates that wouldn't have won anyway out.
Recognize that if you can't win your party, it is unlikely that you were going to win everybody else.
Like one of the major things we heard about bernie sanders is that like oh bernie sanders might have won the general election and then it came out that the that the democratic party had on him was first nothing that would be compared to a republican candidate that really wanted to crush him, but second would have just generally been enough to wipe him out of the general election, so it was actually a blessing in disguise that he didn't make it there in the first place.
We also think that what happens on their side of the house is that candidates aren't able to change their stances the same way first because they aren't able to read the audience in a way that we can in the status quo.
So hillary was able to observe why the youth was so much a fan of bernie and like what kind of stances were more preferred by moderate conservatives and after the primaries was able to adjust her political views and her political preferences and what this allowed her to do is target a larger population.
What happens on his side of the house is that you're going to have a world in which in which candidates get tied to their initial views because they instantly have to enter the general election so they never got a chance to reassess and change their mind first because they're going to get called out for it and it's going to look bad for them but second because they don't have that same kind of political pool that tells them oh here is what people want from me.
We also just think that generally without primaries there's an incentive for candidates to take hardline stances or single issue stances that appeal to a portion of the population and differentiate them from other candidates.
This is because you rather than trying to work for the majority when you introduce like a lack of primary elections and just have all the candidates fighting it out all they have to do is win a plurality so doing things like going gung ho for one large portion of the population and hoping that some moderates catch along is especially when there are groups in there that are likely to split the vote of a certain population is always going to be a preferable strategy.
Primaries change this by allowing candidates to gauge the public preference but also not have to compete for that hardline stance or for that guaranteed portion of the population.
Danny is worried about the elite, but recognize that the elite are always going to need their candidate to win the general election so even if they have the ability to influence the primary they never have an incentive to do it to that large of an extent because if they get a candidate out there who isn't going to win in the general then that's going to hurt them most after all.
Out second area of clash is about the problems with splitting the vote.
First we think like like recognize like what happens here right like if if bernie and hillary were to run against each other this would make it infinitely more difficult for the democratic party as a whole to win because you would have individuals who would usually vote for one of the other if the option from the other was not there going to both.
This allows groups that have a more cohesive view or have only released one candidate to manipulate the election in a way that now because those two people are splitting the vote this other person gets all of it.
This is unrepresentative of the general population's preferences because even if they have a preference for those issues that each of those separate candidates prefer they don't have a preference for the person who actually ended up being president that the issue with the plurality system in the first place but also we just think it encourages extremist views because now you're looking for that flare out plurality and not for that majority.
Proud to oppose.