The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit reality television.
So, reality television is just this category of television in which people are oftentimes like competing or it's supposed to mimic reality for like oftentimes cheap tricks and competitions.
With that, two main areas of clash: the first on the exploitation of individuals.
Recognize that right off the bat, the way by which people are like lured into reality TV is often incredibly coercive.
A lot of the time they're promised a prize that they're unlikely to receive, whether it is the bachelor in which this prize might be the ultimate like love affair with an individual and marriage, but it's really unlikely you're going to get that, first, because the majority of individuals just use it to like propagate themselves as potential actors, but also because you're going to be one out of a million individuals and it's just really unlikely you're ever going to win.
But and so, because of that, we actually think that like the way in which people are called upon necessarily like begs upon the person's most internal like desires and insecurities in a way that is really problematic.
But once you get on to the show, we think that the problems only arise more heavily, right?
Like we think the mistreat of consent and emotions in these situations is really bad.
These networks have a massive incentive to make drama, because they want people to watch their show and be really entertained by it and never leave.
So they have an incentive to make people flustered, offensive, hurt, unhappy, anything that will like extricate a large enough reaction that when they put it on air, it's going to cause people to watch and be surprised and sit in suspense.
This means that these shows always record people in the most intimate and embarrassing situations regardless of their desire to be recorded or not, but also that they often undergo massive amounts of editing in order to portray the individual as radical and as like extreme as possible.
Like we recognize that like it's really unlikely that anyone is as one-dimensional as these shows usually portray them as.
Like you're always either the angry ex-girlfriend, or the angry current girlfriend, or the nagging something or like the aggressive man, and and we think that like misrepresenting individuals like this is really damaging to them.
First, like a personal, emotional level, like it sucks when this stuff happens to you, but also in terms of like when you go back out into the public, and individuals watched the show and believed in it now vilify you and shame you in the public sphere.
We think that's really bad and that individuals should never have to put themselves through these kinds of harms, especially not for a stupid TV show.
Our second area of clash is about the propagation of bad social norms.
First, I think it's important to point out that there's a lot of racial racial and like sexist problems when it comes to reality television as a whole.
There's a massive issue with underrepresentation in that a lot of these shows don't have members of minority groups, because they don't sell as well as having like a gorgeous white protagonist that everybody has gotten so used to.
And when they do have them, they have to stereotype them to feel confident that people are actually going to buy into it, because they think that people identify with these stereotypes and are more likely to watch the show if they have them.
We think this is really bad because it leads to racial minorities being forced into do the same narrow constraints that society forces them into over and over, and forces them to personally reaffirm the stereotypes that are oppress them.
Like we think it's a problem that big brother gets away with having a sassy black woman on every episode that drops early on in the tournament and also always has the same exact personality as the one before it, but they get away with it because that's what viewers like to watch.
And so we would prefer a world in which that didn't happen.
But we also think that a lot of the time, these things are incredibly sexist and that they misportray the power dynamics between men and women.
Like men are always up for like physical tasks these shows often include, while women are catty and manipulative and sit in the background.
Like there's a reason that it's really rare for women to win big brother, and it's because they're always misportrayed by the show as someone who is manipulative and awful, while the man is just someone who's like who just like wants to win and is super noble.
For these reasons, proud to propose.