Don't fight nationalism.
We disagree with james' definition of nationalism.
We don't think it is about genuinely believing that your country is better than everyone else's, rather we think it is about believing that your country is the best for you and has unique benefits such that you subjectively believe it is the best, but probably understand that other countries also think they're the best.
Like we don't think that nationalism is about coming up to someone else and being like, " america one-ups italy on all counts. "
Rather, it is about privately believing that america one-ups italy on all counts on a personal level, but also still recognizing that this is something that is nationalistic, and perhaps a slight amount irrational, and perhaps based on the fact that you've lived there all along.
These things can coexist and we think it is problematic that james says they don't.
Two arguments: first, on creating pride in your country.
We think that when you have nationalism, people feel like their country is something to be proud of simply because it is good to live in and good for them.
This motivates, first, a focus on communal success rather than always focusing on the individual, because in order to have nationalism, you still have to have a cohesive and successful nation.
So you have a vested interest in promoting the success of all citizens of your country, not just yourself.
Things like pushing for better education, domestic business, less foreign ownership of the domestic economy are all associated with increased nationalism, and all have good impacts for an individual country.
It also promotes economic stability.
The economic market is vastly dominated by cultural and sociological factors, and having nationalism and pride in your nation means that people continue contributing to the economic system even when things might be shaky or scary, simply because they have this trust in their system.
We think a lot of the time when you don't have nationalism, your actions within the economy will be based not in your own situations or like not in your own nation success or like fluctuations, but rather in the actions of other nations and foreign bodies in the economy.
And allowing yourself to be controlled by that always means that you're going to be less successful and less likely to have a stable economy than those other countries.
James is worried that nationalism prevents criticism.
Like maybe we think that nationalism has been weaponized previously to prevent criticism but, in general, we think that nationalism can actually be used to better the nation, because people who want to take pride in a nation, that is taking the best action, can push the country towards being better, because you want a nation that deserves your nationalism.
We think the example that james uses is more about fearmongering than nationalism, because even though it bonds people on the idea of being american, it also does things like pit them against an artificial enemy that is created by being scared of that that enemy, not necessarily of the fact that they are a cohesive unit in nationalism.
James talks about national collaboration or international collaboration.
Nationalism doesn't stop that, right?
But it does encourage countries to protect their economies from too much foreign investment.
Our second argument is about creating cohesion in a nation.
Nationalism puts national identity before other forms of identity.
And this is what allows more seamless cultural and racial integration, because it allows people to say that even though this person might have a different religious or cultural background, they are, first and foremost, citizens of the same nation.
And this lets people put aside their differences to accept each other as members of the same system.
This also decreases a lot of homophobia, anti-semitism, or islamophobia, because it allows people to bond over the shared nationalism instead of these other identities that they might get discriminated for under any other system.
Certainly, this is not perfect, but it definitely has an influence, and we think that influence is overwhelmingly positive.
We also think it is better for immigrant integration since they can be accepted as new citizens as long as they're willing to take on that nationalism and pride in the country they are they are entering.
James says that it makes it easier to think people are inferior or evil.
No, we we still think we still think that you see people as people, but especially that you see immigrants as people who want to be part of your new nation.
Proud to oppose.