We don't think that we should abolish capital punishment.
We would be perfectly fine with raising the bar for being capitally punished such as maybe requiring it only for particular crimes or only for repeated offenders.
We would also be fine with requiring extra checks to make sure that all evidence is correct in that you actually have the right person.
We just have a we're just having a like philosophical debate about the existence of the capital punishment and whether that's okay.
First area of clash is about why it is possible to deserve to be capital punished and first, it's a philosophical justification because recognize that when someone commits a crime, they will a world in which that crime exists and can be committed against anyone IE if I go up to a woman and throw acid in her face I'm creating a world in which is a normal tactic in a normal a normal action to throw acid into other people's faces.
At least I show that I myself am okay with it but more than this, we think that people who commit incredibly heinous crimes take something away from society that can never be given back.
They make it an unsafer place.
They make it more difficult for people oftentimes of like that race or of that gender to gain access to like fairness in court and things like that.
They build on problematic stereotypes and they out of fear and insofar as all of these adverse effects occur we think that these people owe a debt to society that needs to be repaid and so we actually often think that for the worst crimes, it is more than justified for capital punishment to be used in so far as that debt is so large that no amount of prison time and no amount of punishment other than capital punishment could ever make up for it.
We think proportional punishment is actually very justified insofar as it actually does to people what they did to others and what they willed to come to the world.
It is the only objective standard of punishment that keeps bias from seeping in and allowing some to be punished unfairly harshly and some to be punished unfairly lightly insofar as it requires someone to be punished exactly in the way that they caused damage.
But we also just think that there's a really important argument about victims rights here.
We think that when someone has been the the the person harmed in these kinds of situations, we care more about that person gaining some of gaining clarity or getting retribution, because they were the innocent that was harmed and so their rights should always matter more than the person who committed that crime and so in times of murder or in times of other really bad crimes we think it's actually very important to make sure that that person is punished with capital punishment to show that that victim was valued.
But our second argument is purely pragmatic.
We think at the end of the day regardless of how high your walls are, or how long that person is in jail for there's always a risk of escape from that system and a future offense.
This is especially true in situations where they've already committed multiple crimes and have gone out for it repeatedly.
We see this a lot where someone has killed someone and then they go to jail and they get off on parole and two years later they're found with bodies in their basement again.
As sucky as it is, the current system is awful at rehabilitating individuals and so we think that something has to be done in order protect in order to protect society from future infractions.
We also just think that parole is often an imperfect system that allows people who happen to be whiter than others to roam free regardless of whether they actually pose a threat to society.
But more than this, we think that it's really difficult and expensive to house and feed so many criminals forever, which were the only solutions that tim proposed.
He just said we can keep them in jail for longer but we don't think that it's fair to other people or those who are working there to over-stress the system for people who do not deserve it.
The jail system is already overloaded and in the end of the day it needs to be unloaded.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.