The motion for today's debate is that we should protect the free market.
What we mean by this is that we prefer a world in which governments minimize punitive taxes such as those created to discourage consumption such as the tax on cigarettes or taxes on marijuana in a lot of states, taxes on alcohol and minimize government subsidies.
So what we mean by that is like the government will often subsidize certain types of fuel production we would eliminate as much of those as possible.
Both of these are tools that artificially manipulate the market and so we prefer a world in which there was less manipulations, the free market could solve for problems on its own.
Two main areas of clash, first on how it encourages innovation.
Recognize first and foremost that innovation is something that's difficult and stressful product process.
It requires a lot of start up capital, long hours, the freedom from government regulations to engage in that kind of research in the first place, and without the free market the government controls the means of production which poses two problems to innovation.
First only things that the government wants get produced ie if you live in a very liberal or conservative state the kind of things that will regard like due to like based on the government's affiliation the kind of things more likely to be produced will be skewed based on that political affiliation regardless of what the majority of individuals desire.
But second it only uses government resources so once there is no more government funding or if that government funding is getting prioritized into different piles there's only so much of it and past that amount you cannot like add, right?
This is bad because the government will never have enough resources or allocate them well enough for all the necessary or good stuff we need.
But it also means that even if they decide that something is going to be necessary or good, it isn't necessarily the case that consumers are going to want that product.
So the cool thing about the free market is that you don't run the risk of millions of dollars wasted on something that isn't going to do well because consumers will just illustrate early on that's not a product that is desirable.
Whereas in the case of the government producing something like this the government just keeps going and it's too late to like undo all of those resources and consumers are just kind of stuck with it.
If we want people to take risk personally and financially to start lick corporations, to do research, and technology innovation we have to have an incentive that makes all of this pain and suffering worth it.
That incentive is monetary success in a free market system but otherwise doesn't exist other than like maybe arbitrary prestige that people don't really care about especially when it's at the cost of hours and hours of stress and like massive risk to themselves.
So we think that the government can never provide as much as much as private investors can and we think the things that these individuals do in a free market are really really important.
These are the people who are responsible for things like drug development, technology research, like the fact that we have things like anything from epipens to smartphones all depends on the existence of a free market that not only allows individuals tools to initially create this but also creates a world in which they are capable of competing with other corporations to make sure that the end result product is the best possible.
So we actually think that competing for money creates competition which creates better products which creates a better world for consumers.
But our second area of clash is about why this is most democratic.
Recognize the free market depends on consumer interest.
Product won't take products won't take off if no one wants to buy them so it gives the majority of power to consumers rather than government because because society will reflect what the majority desires.
This means that people's physical needs are often taking care of.
It also means that consumers control the price so necessities are much less likely to be incredibly expensive because the demand for them is so high that it there are multiple corporations all working on providing them at a reasonable price.
I think a really good example of why the free market solves for such things would be the soviet union which regardless of the fact that so many people had demand for bread the fact that the government only had a limited amount of resources to split between all different needs meant that individual starve like starved over time because the government couldn't provide all of that.
So we think it's actually incredibly important that the free market exists and be protected.
For these reasons, proud to propose.