The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt open source software.
What this means is that we prefer a world were on balance the majority of corporations and the majority of any kind of internet use or like program use was based on open source software.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is very good for innovation.
Recognize that there is a massive problem in the status quo where developers battle patents that create twenty year moratoriums on any kind of creativity or true innovation with that piece of technology.
The problem here is that this necessarily stagnates and cuts off how much progress we can make because there are just swathes of code and swathes of tech that no one can touch due to patent law.
But we think that it is really bad when we don't get to fulfill our true technological potential because of these kinds of laws.
We want a world in which everyone has the ability to work on this code and work on this technology like be able to contribute it and be able to come like have eyes on it because it necessarily creates the world in which the most usable technology is created in which and in which individual parts and individual components get exploited for their full potential because it is impossible for any person to understand everything about computer science and be able to exploit every corner of a like given piece of technology or given tool but when you have this open source any computer scientists can access it and so you can have multiple different fields and multiple different groups of expertise working on the same subject which we think is incredibly possible.
We also think that it's really difficult and incredibly time consuming for one group or one corporation to figure out all of the different ways in which a piece of technology can be used, but when other people are free to figure out figure this out for themselves, they necessarily will do so because they also have a profit incentive to be like to be innovative and to be creative and to do things with this.
So we actually think that like rather than letting these things stagnate and like given that corporations will not be able to exploit them to the full potential and especially given that corporations are going to be fine either way because they don't need to be making as much money or holding as many monopolies as they do we think it would be good to open it up to the public.
Our second area of clash is about security.
When something is not open source, people have no idea what a code is actually doing to their computer.
It means you can have secret bits of code that can like be actively violating your privacy, tracking your emails, tracking your location without your permission but also code that could be making use of your CPU or other powers of your computer to do tasks that you may not have agreed to ie mine bitcoin or do other things that are beneficial to the developer but that you never consent into then as therefore are like using your resources without your consent.
But on a a secondary level more eyes on this kind of technology means more people finding security flaws.
Recognize that any given piece of technology often comes with hundreds and hundreds of individual security flaws that could be exploited and used to get into the software and into your devices but a lot of them aren't actually that hard to find and fix.
It's just that there's tons and tons of code no economic incentive to go deep digging too deep but we think that when there are like tons and tons of people looking at this code looking for these security flaws because they have more of an incentive to protect their individual computer than a corporation ever will you necessarily offset some of that harm and make sure that they will be able to solve it and fix it.
A really good example of this is how every single new like version of kodi comes up with a different set of security measures because on this open source software people are free to find this like these problems and fix them on their own.
Our third area of clash is about reducing fixed costs for corporations.
Recognize that because open source patents are still patents but they have just been vetted prior so that patent trolls can't take advantage of them, corporations necessarily don't have to spend as much time or resources to to vet these patents for themselves.
This means they both avoid patent trolls but also that they can have a much smaller start up cost because it is cheaper to make that technology and so it is actually much more likely that they will do things that are social good rather than just profit driven to attract venture capitalists.
For these reasons proud to propose.