The motion for today's debate is that we should fight the BDS movement.
We mean by this is that generally we think that other countries, we don't think that you necessarily have to like name a specific one, should should not agree or support the BDS movement.
We would prefer a world in which it didn't exist.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is morally unjust.
Recognize first in first foremost that with the BDS does is that it imposes the entire blame for the continued israeli occupation and settlement of israel on the israeli government rather than recognizing the fact that this is a multi dimensional problem that has been contributed to both by the palestinian authority and by the israeli government, in that they like specifically divest from israel and they don't say like: " okay, maybe we should be actually working for peace between, like working towards a compromise. "
Rather they say: " no.
Israel needs to be the one that gives in and figures this out. "
The problem is that israel has, numerous times, already given in an already given up.
Right?
We've had at least three times where israel has offered to end the occupation and palestine has refused every time, even when almost all of their demands are met.
And they have refused only on the grounds that they do not believe that israel has the right to exist at all, and that they want more land than what was given to them previously.
This is incredibly problematic because regardless of whether or not you disagree or agree with with with israel's actions, or with the two state solution, it is necessary in international conflicts to recognize that there are multiple groups at play and to recognize the culpability for a lack of a compromise on multiple groups.
It is unjust that we require all of the compromising and all of the action to come for israel, insofar as the only solution that the BDS would be happy to embrace is one in which israel did not exist at all.
Or the palestinian authority would be happy to embrace and therefore the BDS.
But moreover, it's also unjust in that it emboldens the palestinian authority to keep refusing until they get to the ideal deal, because they see that they have infinite support from western liberals.
And this is incredibly problematic not only because it edges on some of the things I'm going to say later about anti-semitism, but also because it means there's going to be continued violence and continued rejection of any deal on the part of the palestinian authority until israel gives in entirely.
This is bad because in the at the end of the day whether or not you think that israel should have been established in the first place, it has been established and it would be unjust to kick out the millions and millions of people that call it their home.
Our second area of clash is about the way in which the BDS is just a veil for anti-semitism.
Recognize that israel is the only democracy in the middle east.
It is the best in terms of its track record with human rights etcetera.
The arab members are treated the best even out of other arab nations in the area, in that they are allowed to serve in the government, to hold any jobs they like want to and have free anti-israeli political speech.
The problem when BDS uniquely targets them rather than any other country, is that it denies all of those successes and says that regardless of that we would prefer that you did not exist or existed in a much more diminished state.
But given that it only supports the palestinian authority above the above above israel, and we've already recognized the palestinian authority will not rest until israel doesn't exist, it ultimately does only support the end of israel entirely.
It also it also blatantly is anti-semitic in that it denies the horror of the holocaust and other jewish oppression by claiming that this homeland ought not be deserved in the first place.
It is one thing to think that the treatment of palestinians is bad.
It is another to say to support a group that says: " you ought not exist at all. "
Knowing that that is the ultimate goal.
Regardless of what the stated doctrine of the BDS is the fact that they act in ultimate support and unending support for a group that wants israel wiped off the map is just a way for a bunch of liberals to pretend that they're jew supporters on paper while actually being vastly anti-semitic in terms of their political actions.
Our third area of clash is about why economic sanctions are very bad.
They hurt innocent civilians but also they hurt those who benefit from israel.
So people can no longer get access to medication that israel exports, or new technology or new military tech, all suffer because of these kinds of sanctions.
Proud to propose.