The motion for today's debate is that we should fight illegal immigration.
We're talking about the united states.
Were fine with this coming along with increased quotas for immigrants, were really happy to have plenty of legal immigrants, we just don't think that we should accept illegal immigrants.
Or stop the like fight against having illegal immigrants.
Two main areas of clash, first on preventing conservative backlash.
Recognize every time the united states is soft on illegal immigration conservative groups and individuals make the lives of all immigrants, legal and illegal ones, very difficult.
We see rises in vigilante actions, the vandalization of businesses, like town become inhospitable, there are towns that will put signs up that they don't want immigrants there.
We see children being bullied in schools, we see people refusing to hire them which forces individuals into less regulated fields that are often more dangerous and don't provide a good payment.
And these are actions that hurt both legal and illegal immigrants in that like if I'm someone who has an accent than the person who hates me doesn't care whether or not I came to that country by illegal mean.
And we think these these backlashes have other very like firm political impacts as well, if you don't think that these kinds of impacts are bad enough, in that we see that like when a certain population feels particularly unheard, they tend to elect a lot more extreme presidents and rulers.
Like we think the way that trump got got elected was massively because a large population thought that obama had been too soft on things like immigration, too soft on drug policy, and so they said: " okay we're gonna over adjust into the opposite direction. "
And we think that these kinds of politicians do a lot worse for future policy than being harsher on illegal immigrants in the short term will ever do.
Recognize that this is like the difference between like just like regular old policies, like: " oh yes.
We just don't want you here.
You'll get deported if you get caught. "
Things like that, verses like walls and ICE raids and like a very intense like looking into fighting illegal immigration in other ways.
Or like tightening of quotas that these kinds of politicians often do which prevents legal immigrants from coming in as much.
So we think that insofar as like not fighting illegal immigration and being soft on illegal immigration actually creates a worse world in the future, we would prefer to have a baseline that is bipartisan in the status quo in then just build from there.
Our second area of clash is about the importance of the rule of law.
Because recognize that the laws of a country exists to maintain order.
In that I'm willing to like go along with these laws because I recognize that I'm going to be protected from other people who break the laws.
In a world in which there is no enforcement of laws there's never an incentive not to do things that are bad.
Because I know I'm not going to be punished for it so I might as well do things like steal or harm or do all of those things.
And regardless of how arbitrary borders are, recognize that they are also very necessary to maintain national separation and efficient use of resources.
It would be really really difficult for a single nation to support a population that is rushing across borders in terms of just like how many jobs you have available, things like that.
And we think that's like quite bad.
But the other problem we think like what happens on their side of the house is that it's also just like worse to have an unenforced law than no law at all.
Once a law exists it needs to be followed.
Otherwise people don't know how to predict their lives and they lose trust in that law, which feeds into all be pragmatic impacts of the first argument.
People who feel like their country is being ruled by lawlessness are infinitely more likely to elect extremists, they're infinitely more likely to take justice into their own hands.
And we also just think that people ought to be able to predict how their lives are going to go.
There needs to be an incentive to immigrate here through legal means.
There needs to be an incentive to like generally respect the the law that of like a nation you're going into.
And not enforcing one law oftentimes indicates a lack of enforcement in other areas as well.
So we think that this has like flow over harms in terms of how much people trust that nation.
Proud to propose.