Don't introduce goal-line tech.
Danny spends a long time talking about how he gets more accurate results.
We agree.
We don't think that he told you why those accurate results matter.
We think that part of what attracts people to athletics and other events is the spirit is the element of humanity and potential for human error.
He actually decreases the interest because people now feel like things are boring.
We don't think that danny proves that there is some inherent good to accuracy within the context of sports.
The only other thing he really says that matters is that the outcomes of these calls influence the coaches and the players and maybe some kind of broader outcomes when it comes to the games in the league.
Maybe this is true but first, we just don't think that truly incorrect calls happen often enough to meaningfully influence the outcome of these games.
Referees are individuals who are trained to see whether or not these balls actually pass the goal line.
Like at the end of the day, we think that we can allot them a certain amount of trust to do their jobs properly.
So even if there are one or two goals that are miscalled, we think that this happens rarely enough that it probably doesn't massively impact the outcome of anything important in the long term.
Two three main arguments: first, on the spirit of the game.
There's a massive part of the sport to have some kind of uncertainty around goals.
Fans like to get riled up and hold their breath.
They also like being able to get angry whether a call was wrong or not.
It's the activity of being able to get loud and angry over a call and find camaraderie in that loudness and anger that matters a lot more than the truth of the call itself.
All goal-line tech does is remove that aspect of uncertainty and prevent friends from being able to enjoy an integral aspect of the sport.
So when danny tells you that like oh look fans have invested themselves so much he seems to forget that part of what fans expect is that element of error or like potential for error and is that element of being able to be angry about it.
We're always going to value the enjoyment of fans more than the truth of whether the goal is made or not because the fans are the ones for whom sports were created for in the first place.
Without fan enjoyment there wouldn't be a national football league for us to have this argument about.
So we should always maximize that enjoyment.
Our second argument is about unnecessary expense.
Goal-line technology is expensive and even if large athletics events can afford it, the majority of smaller teams can't.
We think that football should be accessible to people and leagues who don't have money and what goal-line tech does is it puts a block between professional leagues and smaller or younger and less rich ones that which gives groups that have money more of an advantage.
It's about those groups that will get to practice with the same technology that they play games with and those groups that will feel like they belong in the stadium that mimics the practices most closely.
This might seem like a small detail but the cultural significance is a pretty big deal.
Goal-line tech has the potential to make certain teams feel unprepared and less than even if they aren't in reality which also undercuts undercuts a lot of the historical relevance here when we see that a lot of the time football has been the sports public people who can't necessarily afford like really big practices.
Like it's been a sport where all you really needed to play with the play it was like two socks that you could roll into a ball and these kinds of things that are so like historically important aren't things that you should undercut in the future by adding these kinds of fancy technologies even if they're only added in specific contexts.
My third argument is just that we think it makes referees irrelevant.
We think that refs are a valuable part of the game.
They add another human element that fans can connect to and rage at but also we just like think that having refs is something that is a generally good thing for the people who get jobs as those referees.
So we think that getting rid of them is just unnecessary.
Like no one's really getting angry or like demanding goal-line tech in the status quo, so we don't understand why you would require it without some kind of outcry in the first place.
Proud to oppose.