Don't abolish foster care.
Two main areas of clash, first on unloading the orphanage systems.
Here I want to point out that sam fails to provide us with a way that he is going to suddenly fund the orphan care system or other state child care systems.
He simply says oh well foster care is expensive so imagine this money is going to help us leaps and bounds.
Unfortunately this is a mischaracterization of the of the situation.
It is always cheaper to send children to foster care where at least part of their care is subsidized by a family than it is to keep them in state owned care because that always takes up more resources and more expenses.
Otherwise we wouldn't have the system in the first place.
The government loves to cut costs, it's unclear to us why they would keep a system that is actively more expensive.
More than this though we think that you want kids to have that better treatment even if it is for a shorter time or even if it happens to be less expensive because recognize that what foster care provides that state care will never ever provide is at least the potential for a long term household like a long term family and we think that even if it doesn't do that because we recognize that it doesn't always work out what it does do is provide a home-like environment which is something that these kids very rarely get to experience when they are stuck in a state owned facility for ages and ages.
We also think that sam has a mischaracterization of what the foster care system is like.
Sure there might be a couple of people who happen to be bad people who just farm these kids and treat them poorly, but we think the vast majority of foster care houses are incredibly loving individuals who happen to want to spend their time helping out kids who they see are in need.
We think that in general the foster care system is relatively effective at weeding out individuals who are unfit to care for kids.
You have things like weekly inspections of their houses like they have to pass things like background checks there's a lot of regulations that occur before you can become a foster care parent then if there aren't enough for willing to add more on our side of the house.
We also think that politically the state has to look like it's making an effort in some way.
We think that foster care is a really easy way for the state to say hey we're not failing these kids like continue to fund us continue to support us things like that which are ultimately all things that lead to better life quality for children who end up in that system.
Our second area of clash is about why foster care is a meaningful experience.
As I told you, sam's characterization is wrong.
The money provided by foster care is usually less than a hundred and fifty dollars a week which is not enough for any kind of like profession like this isn't something that becomes profitable insofar as you're almost always required to throw in some of your own money to take care of these children.
Recognize also that all of the safety checks are still in place so you can't do things like be incredibly abusive but we also just think that the in state systems are always going to be more likely to be abusive than individual families because the state has an active incentive to protect people who work for it because they don't want that kind of optical shame but also because there tends to be some kind of camaraderie between individuals who all work for the same system.
It's also a lot easier for someone who knows the system to work against it and to be harmful within it.
We also just think the foster care is pretty good, right?
Like recognize that many parents can't necessarily afford all of the costs of a kid so what foster care does is it gives them some kind of supplemental income that lets them experience being a parent without having to actually like subsidize all of it which we think is generally good but also we think that it allows people to take kids who need to be taken for a shorter amount of time in.
So maybe you have someone or like a group of people who are all within a year of turning eighteen and so you have a house that specifically just takes them in for that year.
There's no point in adopting those children but it's still good to provide them with a house in the meantime.
We also just think that foster care is a meaningful stepping point to adoption.
Insofar as a lot of parents just don't know if this is something that they want to commit to and might be afraid to commit to if it's going to be a massive financial burden, we think this is something that is beneficial there.
Proud to oppose.