We should prohibit pipeline transfers.
Three main arguments, first on the ways in which this endangers the general populace.
Recognize first and foremost and probably most importantly that pipeline transfers are incredibly explosive.
And already whatever benefit we get from efficiency of having pipelines instead of trucks gets erased the moment you recognize how much damage such a long distance explosion can cause.
Because sure, a truck driving on its own carrying all of this oil or gas, or whatever you're transporting, is dangerous.
Because if that truck lights on fire the occupants of that truck will die in that truck will hurt its surroundings.
But it will hurt infinitely less in terms of just sheer surface area than a pipeline that spans millions of miles.
Because these kinds of flames travel along a pipe.
It's like if I lit a fuse on a very long string.
When something happens in one area, that travels the miles and miles.
So we think the problem becomes that the damage incurred by this thing is always going to outweigh the cost that moving things in a manner that is shorter might take.
Especially since recognize that these companies can afford to do that.
Right?
Like they're oftentimes incredibly large oil conglomerates, they've poured like they have the millions to pour into these kinds of pipelines.
We think they also have that money to ensure safe transport in other ways.
We also just think that it's that these kinds of things affect just infinitely more people on a different level as well because it's not just the driver, it's not just the worker, it's the towns that you're running under.
Its the lakes that are involved.
We also in the environmental damage of these things is much larger because when these things rupture up and down you get infinitely more leaks going into the earth than if you just have one truck that breaks down and pours out its load.
And oftentimes these things are built right above the ground water so the process by which your water gets contaminated is just infinitely more likely to happen on their side of the house.
And we think just the risk of this occurring is already bad enough.
Because you can do things like check the cars you are using.
You can also do things like create more efficient cars like you can use the train.
You oftentimes we see, in a lot of rural towns, really long train tracks for this purpose.
You can use a plane.
Like we just don't think this is the best solution.
Our second argument is that it's bad for the environment.
First it requires massive excavation.
In the process of building these kinds of things you have to clear all of the land above it first.
So you're destroying forests, you are taking out like quarries and lakes in the process, and we think this is so much more invasive than just conventional transport.
Because in the status quo you can have a forest with a road through it and trees going on either side.
But in order to install the pipeline in the first place you have to get rid of all of that.
And we think the environment actually matters a lot.
First because it does things like provide fresh oxygen to counteract the pollution that we're constantly pouring into it, but also because we're getting to a point in our society where the environmental damage actually risks harming us in really problematic ways.
It also oftentimes destroys farmland and goes through lower income individuals like housing areas and villages and towns, and we think that's really problematic because it unseats those individuals and creates a world in which we value that oil company more than we value the citizens of the united states.
So we actually think the government has an obligation to step in here to make sure that its citizens are not harmed by this process.
Our third argument is about encouraging greener energy sources.
We think that these kinds of pipelines are primarily used for gas and oil so if you make it more expensive to transport by forcing them to use things like cars and of pipelines and the cost of gas and oil goes up, you're more likely to see companies that are trying to make cheaper alternatives and greener energy forms crop up, and we think that that is good.
Proud to propose.