The motion for this debate is that we should adopt socialism.
So, for a quick model, we think that in a social generally socialist country, most of large corporation and the means of production are heavily regulated by the government with regards to how much they have to pay in the minimum wage, with regards to their taxes are being very high, and with regards to environmental codes, etcetera.
There would also be a system of public healthcare similarly to that of canada, a system of public education with no private schools, and high very high taxes that would account for high amounts of welfare, especially social security for those who are old or those who are poor, and as well as like free like better social security and free healthcare.
So two main areas of clash, the first on capitalism requiring continuous social inequality.
Because it requires a class system since in order to have like a capitalist system, you have to be able to motivate people to move up from where they currently are, to work hard and be productive, and you just can't do that unless you have a class system.
Also, when your goal is to make money, it creates an incentive to make a lower class that will take lower wages so that you can make more money.
So, capitalist systems actually create incentives that make some people screw over others in order for them to make more money, which essentially creates the class system in the first place.
It also creates an incentive to keep them poor for continued, and so you don't have more competition with being rich.
So we think that a lot of the time what capitalism requires is for people to not just make others poor and stay in poverty, but to stay in poverty for continuous periods of time because it's just easier to exploit the same family for generations than wait for someone to drop down to poverty.
And when if they do move up, it's now someone who's competing with you.
It's this is incredibly problematic because it means the system relies on people struggling, starving, and generally suffering.
But there's no reason that these people should struggle.
First, it's definitely not just or fair.
People are born into classes that predispose them to failure, even though there is no moral difference between them between them and someone richer.
So, in many of these situations, you have people who are born into a lower like into like families in poverty and then, because the school is crappy, because people are biased against them, they can't actually break out of that class system, no matter how hard they work, even though it was completely arbitrary a lottery of birth that they were born into that family and someone else was born into a richer family.
But even if you don't believe that, it's also completely unnecessary.
There are enough money and goods in the world for everyone to be comfortable, but currently there are too many at the top that own all of the money and all of the resources.
The problem is that they would still be fine if they shared a little bit with those who are lower down.
Our second area of clash has to do with capitalism pragmatic harms.
First, there's the simple issue of larger death counts and suffering.
Millions of people are homeless, living in food deserts, don't have jobs, and socialism doesn't have this because it redistributes wealth to avoid these kinds of situations.
We prefer for some to be less well off while thousands more are better off and can actually survive, rather than rather than the status quo.
Also, capitalism equates value and markets.
The system where people get valued based on how much the system of capitalism values people based on their productivity, based on how much they earn.
This intrinsically values those who earn less as less worthy, less value of an individual.
This means that people treat them less like a human, they're less willing in capitalist systems to provide them with money for basic needs.
This is why we have republicans who get up there and say that these people are just asking for handouts, even though in reality they're just people who are struggling to get by in a society that put them there in the first place.
We also think it's important to remember that it's that capitalism is actively untenable in the long term.
There's a changing world where AI is becoming increasingly popular and is much more likely to get rid of millions of jobs, but not just white-collar jobs in which people are like working as like burger flippers or waiters the like things that are easily automated, but also a lot of higher level jobs in data analysis.
And at the point that people will literally not be able to get jobs because so many of them are taken up by robots, we think it's unjust to maintain a capitalist system that is going to put all of those people down into poverty.
This creates more violence and unrest in these societies as well which is also a problem.
For these reasons, proud to propose.