We believe that urbanization is actually incredibly positive.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why it is better for the environment than spread out or more rural areas contrary to what will seems to believe.
First recognize that the kind of transport that occurs in the city is much more environmentally friendly than the requirement to own a car in every single rural or suburban area.
Because it is much more environmentally efficient to to load hundreds of people onto one train car and send only that train car rather than to displace those same hundreds of people into individual, privately owned cars.
I also think it's important to note that cars are considered the second largest emitter in the world and so this is actually a very big deal environmentally to preserve based on public transport.
We think that it's really easy to label cities as these massive pollutants, and they are, but the reason that people think that they are so much more polluting than urban or within a rural or suburban areas is because of the fact they actually show their concentrations of smog.
Because recognize that the same kind of damage is produced by rural and suburban areas but you don't see it in the same way like in terms of the clouds hanging over the cities and so you don't internalize the damage.
We actually think it's really positive for people to be able to see the damage that they make because it creates a much more effective wakeup call when this smog is actually harming me personally, I am much more likely to do something about it, I am much more likely to rage at my government to do something about it.
And we think we have we've seen this crystallize insofar as urban areas actually end up getting the newest environmental technology much faster than it goes out to rural or suburban areas and you're much more likely to get regulations on corporations in urban areas than in rural areas because they affect more people and thus get much more attention pushed towards them.
You also end up with better filters because you can cover smaller areas but still more people so it ends up being more economically solvent for governments and for corporations to spend money on making urban areas healthier than rural areas healthier because whenever you go to rural or suburban areas you're dealing with much larger land mass and so it's much more expensive to make it more environmentally friendly.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why it's better for people and society.
First, cities oftentimes end up being one of the largest melting pots in the united states because you end up with large amounts of immigrants and large amounts of people from different cultures living in very small spaces and interacting with each other on a daily basis.
There's a reason that cities tend to be much more liberal than rural and suburban areas, this is because when you have continuous contact with people from different cultures you are much more likely to empathize with them and it makes it much more difficult to hate them.
This leads to net better politics so you end up with you like you've never heard of the sanctuary rural mississippi but you do end up with large cities that are willing to take up the status of sanctuary cities because they see the protection of immigrants as a worthy cause.
So cities are more much more likely to vote for policies that are actually going to benefit immigrants whereas rural and suburban areas are much more likely to elect racist politicians.
Like poor white people living in rural areas massively left of trump.
It's also the case that cities end up with more innovation because of the concentration of abilities.
Like one of the biggest areas with like the silicon valley is a city that has some of the largest amounts of start ups like in the world specifically because when you get so many brilliant people in the same area you can do much more good work than if those people live miles and miles apart and have difficulty communicating which with each other.
This is also much better for the economy because you're ending up with with much more smaller businesses much more startups and thus more trade between individuals and better economic boosts.
There's also often better put better infrastructure for poverty in populated urban cities because they have to face this poverty head on.
For these reasons proud to oppose.