The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish primary elections.
What we mean by this is that instead of having a situation in which you get all of this the candidates from a certain party and then only registered members of the party vote on it, instead we're just going to have all of the people regardless of who the party majorly wants go straight to the general election.
Three three main areas of clash, first on the fight for moderates.
The problem in the status quo is that because primaries require appeal to the registered party voters, candidates often have to appear more more extreme than would be productive for themselves or for the world.
It basically ends up weeding out moderates by requiring you to appeal not to the majority of everyone that exists regardless of their political view, but specifically to the majority of republican or democrat voters.
And in order to gain a majority ahead of any opponents you might be facing, you have to make sure that you capture at least some of the radicalized base, like you have to be able to appeal to as many republicans as possible.
However those that can't win in primaries might be able to win the general election because the majority of voters are more moderate than those registered to a party or the party elites that are likely to offer you money during the primaries.
Not only this but we also think that pragmatically these people end up with better policies as well because we think that one of the reasons trump got by in the republican primaries is because he was able to buy up that white supremacist alt-right base in a way that an opponent who had more moderate views wouldn't.
However we think that in a more general election the moderate would be more appealing because not the because the majority type of person isn't that racist and isn't that like terrified of the world at large and globalization.
So we think that on our side of the house you're actually much less likely to get such extreme policies because those were the people who manage to get by in extreme base.
Our second area of clash is about providing independence from the party to candidates.
Because primaries are controlled by the political party, it forces candidates to pay a certain amount of lip service to the party that they're coming from.
So those who don't if those who don't do so get less screen time, they're pushed out of debates, and basically it's made very difficult for them to continue being candidates within that party.
But we want and like literally if the primary like if the party decides that you aren't a popular enough candidate, they can just cut you out of the debates in the primary.
However in the real world, people don't get cut out of debates because all candidates are equally important to determining who becomes president and so you don't have to give over some kind of deference to whatever party is governing you because the party is the people.
We think this creates much more honest candidates who are unwilling to pay that lip service but we also think that it creates better candidates given that the party leadership is often made up of more traditional people who have been there for a longer.
Our third area of clash is about how it changes campaigning strategies and promotes one that is a lot more wholistic throughout the election.
Currently primaries allow individuals only to campaign to the party which lets them narrow down their agenda a lot more.
However we want a more honest strategy with a less extremist base, and we want them to be able to appeal to everybody equally.
We think what currently happens is that individual candidates can essentially garner enough power and monetary help while they are running in the primaries so that once it gets to the general election, they have enough money to buy certain individuals' votes or they can more easily hijack people.
But we think what happens on our side of the house is that individuals are forced to campaign even to those who they didn't care about before because it's no longer as much about the money as it was previously with so many candidates running all at once.
For these reasons, we are very proud to propose.