The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt teacher tenure reform.
So a quick model.
Currently teacher tenure occurs after three years of observation it makes it very difficult to fire that teacher and it provides them with like with essentially what is supposed to be more free reign in the classroom.
So I think instead of these kinds of situation we would prefer to lengthen the probationary period of observation would make it easier to fire those with tenure and there'd be a better rating system and like regular job reviews regardless of your state of tenure.
Moreover what matters most in this round is obviously going to be the impact on the children because the purpose of school is to educate children and if you're not being successful or reaching your full potential in that task then you are clearly not meeting your stated goal and there needs to be some kind of reform.
Three main areas of clash.
First on why current tenure creates complacency among teachers.
Tenure makes it incredibly difficult to fire someone and if you're not going to have any kind of threat of losing your job or you don't or you feel overly secure in your job you no longer have an incentive to exert yourself more than you have to especially like people get very busy they start to have families and lives and at a certain point you're going to start sacrificing something.
On our side of the house we think that sacrifice cannot beat your job given that influences so many small lives that are still developing.
So we would prefer that teachers continue to have a professional reason to prove themselves and especially given that a lot of the time when you get tenure you are significantly older and you already occupy a position that potential younger and more enthusiastic teachers could fill.
So you think that you actually have to justify your position to a point and if you're making it so that kids get a sub par education because you are complacent no longer feel the need to prove yourself to the board that is to announce your tenure then you need to be out of there and someone who is willing to put in that effort needs to be begin.
Our second area of clash has to do with why tenure makes it very very unnecessarily difficult to remove incompetent teachers which hinders our school systems.
So tender guarantees a level of security and it's incredibly difficult to breach that level it's hard to prove that there's a reasonable reason to fire them after they're tenured and it also becomes incredibly expensive given that you have to now negotiate with teachers' unions you have to get yourself a lawyer you oftentimes have to like cobble your parents into a situation and it means that most schools don't even bother doing so because if your choice is between a lengthy lawsuit over one teacher versus spending that money to fund other school activities or to pad the pockets of your of your board then you're not going to choose that lengthy difficult lawsuit especially since it often comes with a lot of bad publicity for your school in the eyes of the media.
And you can be very easy to spin the school as a villain.
So once we recognize that it's ridiculously difficult to fire a current member like was tenured we then have to discuss how this can be fixed and we think that reducing that barrier a little bit and allowing it to become easier to fire teachers creates a world in which we can actually get rid of those who are no longer making our school systems better and we don't think that it's going to be over used because it's always going to be difficult to start initiating firing someone.
And there are a lot of protections that unions put in place regardless of tenure's existence and it's really difficult to get around those.
Our third area of clash has to do with how tenure makes seniority the main deciding point when dismissing teachers on hard times.
Especially recently we've seen that schools often find themselves economically strapped.
They have to make cuts.
The problem with tenure is that it changes the order in which we cut our teachers.
It basically says that those who have been around for longer and have tenure are going to be cut last.
This is incredibly problematic because those who need those jobs most and those who are likely to put the most effort in their jobs are actually people who are significantly younger and so we think that if we were able to switch this order it would be much better for children especially in situations in which your school is making a lot of cuts during economic hard times.
For these reasons proud to propose.