The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit tower blocks.
We think that this can take place in the majority of countries, in so far as most current countries have the infrastructure, and the ability, and often do build tower-block-like structures.
Before we get into our two areas of clash, we want to flush out what the alternative looks like, because tower blocks, basically, are are made up of these very tall skyscraper-like buildings, with steel frames, a lot of concrete, very heavy, and require a lot of planning ahead of time, and a lot of upkeep overtime.
We think the alternative looks like more sprawled out communities, with houses that are kept to three to four blocks maximum, meaning you could still have multiple apartments in one house, but rather than building up, you would have to build a little bit up, and then wider out.
We think this is preferable mostly for the two areas of clash I'm about to outline.
First, I want to talk about hygiene.
Because the problem with tower blocks is that these kinds of houses are connecting oftentimes tens of hundreds of people together, with the same kind of ventilation, in very close quarters, and with very close contact.
The problem with this is that a lot of airborne diseases, and even physically like touch-borne diseases, can move between these tower blocks much more effectively than they would move between smaller houses, that are separated by like amounts of land.
Specifically, things like tuberculosis, that are incredibly infectious through vents, spread infinitely faster through tower block structures.
We think that at the point that these like, off these can propagate diseases much faster than other kinds of buildings, they ought be avoided.
More than this though, we think that tower blocks, specifically, are often used in de facto segregation to worsen the conditions of the minority groups, and those who are poor in communities.
We think that, even though you will always have some amount of de facto segregation, insofar as society is racist and likes to have the wealthy living far away from those in poverty, you can eliminate how bad this looks, by allowing for multiple small houses, that require less upkeep to still be manageable, but also don't allow the same kind of contact between groups.
More than this though, we think that it is easier to attack a tower block than it is to attack smaller areas, if only because the bomb radius is tighter together.
We think we ought that we ought to take note of attacks, such as nine eleven.
We think that it would have been infinitely harder for it to cause that much damage, if, rather than the two massive twin towers, you had smaller smaller groups, if only because there just wouldn't be as many people in that amount of space.
Our second area of clash has to do with the environment.
We think it's important to note that, unlike other kinds of buildings, tower blocks specifically have very concentrated pollutant output.
Because there are so many people living in one area, consuming all of that energy there, you're going to have much higher emissions in small areas, which causes more environmental pollutions there.
We think it's important to note that in very large cities, such as tokyo, people actively have to wear face masks, because of the amount of pollution generated by large amounts of people.
Yes, we agree cities are always going to exist, but we think by removing how high these cities can build, you necessarily expand the radius of them, which spreads the pollution out over more space, but you keep the same amount of pollution.
So, you minimize the impact on every individual, in every individual piece of land.
More that this though, we think that the heavy building materials often use compress the earth, and are geologically dangerous.
At the point that this is true, we think it is preferable to even out the amount the amount of weight across our mud banks, and across our across tectonic plates, to prevent dangerous geological situations.
We think a lot of the time, even earthquakes can be caused by things like tower blocks.
We also think that, oftentimes, tower block lead to collections of businesses, and other conglomeration.
Again, we understand that cities will always exist, but we think that spreading our cities out causes less damage.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.