The motion for today's debate is that we should end progressive taxation.
The way we're going to model this is fairly simple.
We think that above a certain poverty line which can be drawn based on statistics with regards to where the poverty level actually is in the country or, like, the average by which people can support themselves without external help from programs such as medicare or welfare, and we think that people who earn for income above that level of poverty would each have an applied flat tax depending on what the government requires.
So, say, if you have a large sprawled-out government, something like the united states, your tax might be fairly high, so a flat tax of maybe ten, fifteen percent, but if your government is smaller, it can stay around five percent, etcetera, etcetera.
Two main areas of argumentation: the first on why we think it's fundamentally unjust to have a progressive tax.
We think there's a general recognition in society that people have rights to property and that the fruit of someone's labor is property as well.
And we think that just because the fruit of your labor changes in semblance, whether it is money or the actual creation of the material, do not change the fact that it is still your property and the fruit of your labor.
So let's sketch this out real quick, right?
We think that first and foremost, property rights exist.
We think it is bad when people steal each other's each other's goods, that if something is within the boundaries of my house, if I built it, if I bought it, then having it taken away from me is a violation of a right, and we find this viscerally to be true.
Second level to this then is that if I do something with my body, if I build a cabinet, if I chop some wood, these things become my possessions and we apply property rights to them.
But we don't understand why the line stops at money.
Why suddenly because my labor, instead of getting a cabinet out of it, I get a couple hundred thousand dollars or etcetera, changes the fact that it is still property and still my right?
In fact, we think it's exactly the same thing.
Just because instead I'm getting money doesn't mean I own it any less.
What this means is that taxation, as a whole, is a kind of theft that needs to be justified, because we think that any taxes on the part of the government are, at their core, an act of like the taking away of property.
We we have to understand that it is worth it.
So, we think that some redistribution is okay.
But you have to warrant why somehow because people are earning more, they also have to be taxed higher than others.
Because it is okay to say everyone gets taxed the same in order to benefit others society, but it is not okay to place that undue burden and take more from some.
We think that the other side has to warrant this.
But more so, we think that this system just isn't circumstance-based enough.
Presumably in a flat tax, everybody can afford to pay it, especially if it's applied above a certain poverty level.
But the problem with the progressive tax is that, yes, there are some outliers, people who are single people who just want to earn a lot of money, but a lot of the time people work to earn more because they have to support more people, they need to spend more, they're supporting family abroad or have many children, and we think that any kind of system has to recognize these kinds of circumstances.
Our second area of clash has to do with general pragmatic impacts.
First we want to talk about why it discourages people from working harder, reaching for those promotions, being real innovators.
We think that a lot of the time people are motivated by the amount of money they're going to make.
But if the amount of money you're going to make is going to be marginally more than the amount that you make previously, because a lot of that money is getting sucked out through progressive taxes, then you're probably not going to feel very motivated to work for a promotion that is also going to make you work many more hours.
We think people make these tradeoffs.
They say, " I'm willing to spend more hours in the office and less hours doing the things that I love and seeing the people that I want to see because I want more money. "
But if you're not getting more money and you're just wasting that time and that energy, we don't think people are going to do it anymore.
Second, though, we think that there are inner class tensions that develop specifically because of the progressive taxes.
Because even if you don't buy that it is unjust, it is true that rich people, in general, do think it is unjust.
They stop donating to charities, they stop wanting to support good policy decisions in the long term, because they feel like they are being taken advantage of, and we think at least in order to prevent those impacts, we ought not have a progressive tax.
For these reasons, proud to propose.