We shouldn't legalize employment discrimination.
Government probably talked about how it is the right of individual employers to choose who they employ at their own businesses but we think the problem with this is that it doesn't take into account the competing rights that are at play in this situation.
Recognize that when we talk about the rights of employers, they directly contradict the rights of employees or potential employees because when we say that an employer should be able to do whatever they want and hire whoever they want, this necessarily comes at the cost of individuals who will now not be hired because of immutable characteristics that they cannot control.
We think it is the right of people to be assessed fairly and to be assessed equally for job positions that they need in order to like feed their family and themselves and we think that when it comes to evaluating whose rights are more important, it is more important for someone to have access to the potential of having a job than it is for an employer to be racist or sexist or ageist or any other factor.
This is especially true because the things that a employer would discriminate against aren't things that actually affect the ability of someone to do the job, right?
Like whether I am male or female, my skin color, these are things that don't matter as long as I am someone who is qualified.
So when an employer wants to discriminate, they're not doing it to better their company or because it's going to have tangible positive impacts for themselves and their productivity rather they're doing it because they have arbitrary biases that we don't think they should be affirming.
So in these situations we are always going to be weighing the rights of individual people to have access to these jobs in the first place above the rights of employers to choose who they want to work for them.
Two main arguments: first, on the normalization of bad practices.
The first is the obvious.
We think it is bad that employers will now be able to discriminate and prevent people from accessing jobs on the basis of things like their sex, race, age, literally anything that is currently illegal.
It is also bad that people who will be affected by this won't be able to seek recourse because in the status quo you can do things like sue companies that you think are having unfair discriminatory policies.
We're going to take the apparently controversial stance that discrimination is bad.
There are no inherent differences between people who are of different genders or of different races and that we ought live in a meritocratic system rather than one that judges individuals on these characteristics.
But we also think that there's a second layer to this ie that the law sets into motion what becomes the public norm of behavior and culture.
It is really problematic if the legality on employment discrimination changes because it sends the message that this is not something that the government cares about and in fact it is something that is acceptable.
A really good example of this is how soon after trump got elected we saw massive increases in terms of racist attacks and general racist sentiment that was expressed publicly because individuals saw that in terms of the like political sphere we're no longer punishing those kinds of behaviors as harshly so they're more likely to exhibit them.
This first cuts across years of effort that we've put in to trying to make a more equitable society by allowing individuals to feel like their feelings are justified and pass them on to the next generation, but also because when the public response to politics in such a way they make situations that are actively less safe for people from those discriminated against groups.
Our second argument is about why it is unjust.
We think that people should have access to the same jobs in a meritocratic system and it shouldn't depend on immutable characteristics because there is no inherent difference in ability between someone who is black or white and no difference in inherent value.
So therefore my chance of getting a certain job as a woman ought be the same as that chance of a man and should be broken based on our qualifications not our gender.
Is unfair to let the job market value two people differently on any other basis.
Moreover, discrimination always affects individuals from specific groups more aggressively.
No one discriminates against white men, it's always people of color or women.
Proud to oppose.