Don't raise the corporate tax.
This is a debate about how companies respond to these kinds of political actions.
We're going to agree with james in the principled level that it would be good if companies contributed more to the systems they benefit from, but that's not the problem and it's not what today's debate is about.
The problem is that companies just take actions to circumvent these laws anyway that oftentimes have a lot worse risks on the a lot worse impacts on the country than simply if you would let them exist without these large corporate taxes.
James is well-intentioned but doesn't solve the underlying problem.
Three main arguments: first, on people losing their jobs.
Rich people don't want to abandon their income.
What this means is that when you have a corporation that is making a lot of profit or maybe it's a smaller company that is making less profit, in both scenarios, a corporate tax imposes a known cost that they will have to adjust to.
What this means is that they will fire people in advance because they will want to maintain the same profit margin.
Recognize the majority of companies don't need the amount of people they hire to function.
You can overload individual workers and then fire the rest so you can make the same money.
This is bad both because those people left now getting who are left behind now get worse working conditions, but also because people now lose their jobs who were previously relying on the income and don't necessarily get a replacement.
And the way that this act is really pernicious, on both levels, first, in that the corporations that are larger are just like crappy organizations, right?
They don't care about the benefits of their customers or their workers, they just want to accrue profit.
So this is something that is really going to harm the workers there.
But also, the small companies that want to stay afloat are going to have to do this, because they're simply just not going to have the money to afford the corporate tax and maintain a profit at the same time.
So that's like the double-edged sword here, is that james isn't just forcing like large companies to pay at the cost of these workers, he's also actively making it harder for small corporations to continue to exist.
Our second argument is about prices going up.
Like we need to make up the profit lost through corporate tax as these corporations.
So they do things like raise the cost of goods and services, and this is really bad for the people who want to buy them, especially people can't afford the increase in cost, but the company still manages to profit off of individuals who can afford it, so they don't care.
And the problem here is that james tries to like get away by adding these interesting counter-models where he says that like, " oh, look, but we're gonna tax on profit within a given country, " or like, " we're going to tax according to like the individual country tax codes. "
Like the problem here is that both prices and cutting jobs are things that are independent of whether or not or like the mechanism by which you have these taxes, right?
So we think that this isn't going to happen, no matter what james tries to model it as.
But our third argument is about how corporations move overseas.
Like recognize that other states don't necessarily have the same kind of taxes, so corporations who feel like the corporate tax is too much of a burden are likely to move to other countries.
James tries to get around this with a bunch of different models but, first, even if they're getting taxed according to the country's tax codes, they'll just moved more of their business to the countries with lower taxes, right?
Like we think that a lot of these companies can find large consumer bases that might make up the profit that they lose somewhere else, like they're not unique to large western liberal democracies that have good corporate tax laws.
But also, then he gives us this idea that infrastructure and permanent spending will be highest where your industrial center is , and like maybe you're only taxing on that.
But the problem here is that that just means that you're going to put all of your like fixed cost stuff besides those individual stores in a different country and then only pay for the infrastructure that you put in as individual stores, which is never going to be as large as your like large industrial center and like factory.
So that doesn't solve the problem either.
So, either way, we just think this ends up rebounding in a really toxic way, even if the policy itself is trying to accomplish something positive.
Proud to oppose.