We shouldn't subsidize vocational education.
Two main arguments: first, on why we prefer higher education.
Subsidization of education always trades off between different fields.
If we're choosing vocational training, that is definitionally money that we can't spend on other subsidization.
We think that higher education is more important than vocational training.
This is because there are more jobs accessible with higher education, and those jobs are often higher paying.
Moreover, the projection for the future is that we will have more and more positions that require educated people whereas vocational jobs are more likely to get automated.
And the number doesn't really increase, it just stays stagnant, because it doesn't like significantly change based on the needs like based on population rise or anything like that.
Like we generally need the same number of plumbers, the same number of mechanics, the same number of hairdressers.
Moreover, we think that since vocational education is already significantly cheaper than higher education in the status quo, it means that it is already affordable and doesn't actually need to be subsidized.
This is especially true because vocational education usually caters to individuals who are more low income.
You see a lot more vocational training programs in areas that have higher poverty rates because you know these are people who are unlikely to be able to afford or have interest in college, so you advertise to them something that is cheaper, that gives them a job like more quickly.
In this way, we just think vocational education doesn't even need subsidization.
People can already afford it, and especially because vocational education is more likely to accept pay it forward plans, IE that a lot of vocational education programs will say, " we'll train you for relatively cheap and then in the future, we're going to take some of your paycheck, " or something similar.
Our second argument is that it is bad for overall society.
Given that we will have more jobs requiring higher education coming in the future, we need to prepare our general population for that by not encouraging people to enter fields where they're less likely to get stable jobs.
Recognize that literally almost all of our long-term projections show that we are having massive increases in the need for medical services, for for technological services, all of these things that require multiple, if not just an undergraduate, degree.
And we think the problem on government side is that they're depending on the consistent existence of a higher number, not just the same number, of positions in vocational jobs, because when you subsidize something, you're necessarily informing people that this has government support and that more people should participate in it.
So, a subsidization of vocational education necessarily means more people pursuing vocational education than previously would have.
And we think that it's really bad for the economy when there is a surplus of workers in a particular food field, because it increases joblessness and decreases economic growth in the long term.
Subsidization signals government support and always results in increasing the amount of people who make use of that subsidy, as I told you.
So unless the government is certain that there's going to be to demand for those vocations in the future, we don't think it's a good idea to subsidize it now.
Proud to oppose.