We should abolish the presidential system.
Our model for this is fairly simple.
We want to abolish our current form of the democracy in the united states and adopt the parliamentary style, which basically means that we'd still have two houses but they would be more than two parties and all of the parties who get seats are based on their percentage of the national vote.
We see this form happening in germany where depending on how powerful that party is among the general population the proportion of power it has within the two houses is related and proportional to that.
Three main arguments, first on empowering small parties and minority interests.
We think that what we have on our side of the house provides small parties with more capacity to win because not every single race is reflected as a win or a loss for the entire party or something that could ever be completely abolishing that party because the goal is no longer win it all so you get the presidency or win the majority so you get the majority in the house.
Rather the goal becomes I want to carve out small spheres of influence so that I can get my policy views integrated into the bipartisan or like multipartisan kind of legislature that comes out of these areas.
The system is much less all or nothing than what we have in the status quo and since you have significantly more parties, having small chunks of public attention is worth more than that same size chunk in the status quo.
Because the problem right now is that with two parties essentially splitting the population fifty fifty a lot of the time and maybe two percent on either side of that being minority interests and small parties, this basically prevents any party from rising up from those grassroots moments because of the institutional power that the largest ones have.
But on our side of the house, as long as you are able to crawl up bit by bit in terms of the amount of influence that you have, it is possible for you to become bigger than any other party simply because those other parties are splitting that population so aggressively.
Our second argument is about encouraging cooperation.
Under our system.
Politics is a massively zero sum in the status quo.
When you have only two parties, it means that a loss for one party will always be a gain for the other.
This means there is a very rarely an incentive to cooperate with an opposing party if you'll be giving up more than they will which means that even in situations of bipartisan policy, if it looks slightly better for one party or the other, you massively decrease the percent chance that that legislation will ever go through because parties want to avoid losing faith face.
This is really bad because that perceptual damage they're trying to avoid oftentimes translates into harming real people when the policies that could help the most end up not passed at all.
But on our side of the house, you're more likely to cooperate with ideological allies.
First because there are more of them than you have right now where the two parties basically are forced to be directly opposite to each other just in order to represent those different views wholistically.
But second because your wins don't trade off the same way so you're going to be more willing to make alliances when you don't think that each of those alliances will come with a direct damage to yourself.
Our third argument is about why this facilitates more democratic signaling.
People get more say and choice rather than just voting with the generalized set of interests.
In the status quo you get entire areas that will vote straight republican or straight democrat just from party loyalty alone and a lack of alternatives.
When you have more parties those people be able to find niches that represent them better rather than having to generalize their views in order to agree on one party or the other.
This signals to politics in general what the general population wants and is and allows us to create catered policies based on more niche views than just the more general iteration of the current political parties.
Proud to propose.