We should abandon coal mining.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is abusive to the individual.
First, recognize that coal mining is an incredibly dangerous job.
It is physically so in that there's falling rock and debris, there're often gas leaks that can like literally kill you while you are in the mine, long-term exposure to coal dust and coal mining can create long-term conditions like lung cancer and other diseases.
Essentially, this is something that really messes people up into the long term and it is much more dangerous than the vast majority of other jobs, but it is also incredibly unstable.
Mines are regionally based and often take up areas the like the entire area's resources but once they're used up, there's nothing left.
So, the mine will take up and leave, but the area that has become economically dependent on the existence of that mine is left behind.
This is why you end up with things like mine like entire mine towns that later went incredibly like that essentially just went bust after the coal mining ran out in that area, because every single business had been tailored to the existence of that mine and they couldn't sustain themselves without it, and millions and, not millions, but and tens and tens of people went unemployed once that mine moved somewhere else.
It's also just unstable on a personal level.
If you devote your entire life to a mine but it goes away once you're like forty or fifty, you're still not eligible for something like social security, but you're probably no longer capable of doing something like obtaining an education and working somewhere else.
We also just think this isn't a job that people meaningfully consent into.
It is something that purposefully targets individuals who are poor, people who are uneducated, people who are struggling, people who essentially cannot find a job somewhere else.
And we don't think that a lack of alternative can ever allow consent.
For example, if someone puts a gun to my head and threatens me into doing something, we would consider that to be a lack of alternatives in the same way that the fact that I might starve if I don't take this job would force me into that job, but we wouldn't consider that to be consensual actions on my part.
Our second area of clash is about why it's bad for the environment.
First, the process of coal mining itself is incredibly problematic.
It leaks into groundwater and surrounding land.
It the operation of large machinery releases large amounts of fossil fuels which pollute the area.
It literally leaves holes in the ground that can sink entire towns, once it's left behind and if those towns stick around for long enough, and if a fire ever ever starts in a mine, it will go on for so long, producing so many byproducts and toxic gases that the entire area becomes unlivable.
But this doesn't even include what happens when that coal is burned later on.
Because when you burn it for energy, the fossil fuels that are released and the other byproducts are exactly what do things like cause smog over cities and all else.
Our third area of clash is about why these products are just inefficient.
Recognize, first, that the ratio of power to amount of coal is incredibly small.
So, even compared to other fossil fuels like natural gas or oil, coal is always going to be the least productive item, which is a reason that you should at least abandon coal mining for other forms of fuels.
But this gets even worse when you compare it to greener technology and greener energy.
We think it is preferable to start a system in which we start to unseat fossil fuels in general, and the only reason this hasn't happened is massively because there are lobbyists who can say, " we don't care if it's inefficient.
Here's a bunch of money to keep you from thinking about that politician making making decisions about our future. "
And other corporations just don't have the same kind of institutional knowledge or the amount of money necessary to unseat those.
But if we were to abandon coal mining as an industry, there wouldn't be anything left for them to advocate for and that money would no longer talk as loud.
This would allow greener energy to line up and become more more mainstream which is something that we always will prefer, because it's going to be more efficient and it's going to have less toxic byproducts.
Proud to propose.