The motion for today's debate is that we should ban casinos.
Three main areas of clash, first on why casinos are just a different kind of addiction that ought be banned in the same way that we regulate things like heroin or cocaine or any kind of other addictive drug.
Recognize that like chemically and scientifically as it has been studied gambling has been shown to just be as big of an addiction as cigarettes to like cocaine and heroin.
The advertisers often specifically put their advertisements in poor areas in this pray on individuals that already don't have very much money and oftentimes like don't have the same kind of indoctrination into why why gambling is so bad and so I think that is like uniquely a way which they take advantage of individuals as well but also we think that it like it brings people in by promising large rewards that never actually occur insofar as people are often set to lose thousands and thousands more dollars than they could ever have potentially gained.
The important thing to remember here is that this money trades off with the resources that individuals need for their families.
It become like not only are they no longer providing in a financial way but now that they have contracted was essentially an incredibly deadly disease, this is something that the family needs to provide treatment for and support for.
This is harmful both to the individual and their like directly related family but it's also really bad for society when rather than like spending your money within your region and like on things that trickle down to other people and stimulate economic activity, you sit in a casino all day and only spend money on like that bracket so that a certain group of people are the only ones who benefit off of it.
We think that that's actually quite bad but more than this like bringing us to our second independent point, I think it's important to recognize what kind of behavior casinos actually like encourage and impose.
We think a lot of the time what happens is that casinos promote disinhibited behavior that often involve substance abuse especially they bring in like harsher forms of drugs and prostitutes to fuel the behavior that we've already identified can be incredibly problematic.
This is bad because it raised the level of crime but it is also bad because it makes the areas more dangerous.
The correspondence that occurs there then is that as the like dangerousness in the area rises the prices of the area and like the land and the property become a lot lower which causes more well-off people to leave ie white flight but also forces individuals who do not have the money to leave and just lost a lot of money on their house to be stuck in these awful situations that they can never get out of so we think that's like actually quite bad and so we should never put a city in the position of having to avoid this kind of drainage.
But our third independent point is about economic depression because recognize that a lot of the time casinos tend to depress economically the areas surrounding them.
This is true because casinos are like a like three-inp-one in that they will often provide a restaurant, they will provide overnight like overnight utilities and overnight beds and entertainment in just one large area.
This drives other competing businesses in the region out of business given that no one actually wants to have to leave the casino being inebriated to go get food or to go get other kinds of entertainment and and so this like after and after that occurs in like smaller businesses in the area are driven out because they have a monopoly the casinos can jack up their prices and provide an undue economic influence over the region as a whole.
This a problem because it allows things for political lobbying to go through much more quickly if a like certain congressman or whatever thinks that they are a like more likely to lose should do not support this.
For these reasons proud to propose.