We should end the use of public housing.
Recognize that the comparative isn't homelessness.
Rather it is people living in cheaper areas further from expensive cities.
Because public housing has specifically been used to create cheaper accommodations in areas in which those accommodations that already exist have had really high price raises due to the influx of individuals who want to live in those areas, because they're often cities that can become urban centers for development and research and any number of industry.
So we think the problem occurs when the government puts millions and millions of dollars into a system of keeping prices artificially low rather than simply relocating individuals to areas that are cheap in the status quo, so they don't have to deal with things like rising prices in their areas even as their housing price stays the same.
Three two main arguments: first on why public housing is specifically low quality.
The government spends as little as possible when it builds these kinds of housing projects.
They use poor quality material, there's often poor local management because it is bureaucratic and there's like very poor oversight when there are so many separation degrees between the management and the like bureaucracy that runs it.
And they don't deal with things like pests in a timely manner.
This lead to no one actually wanting to live there except individuals who have no other option financially.
Which although is what these products are meant to take care of, means these are often individuals who view this housing is temporary or don't have the money to put into up keeping.
So they're not going to care if something breaks or if there's like dents in the walls things like that, or if like things go unmaintained.
So insofar as there is now no incentive to take care of the apartments either on the part of local management who tend to be bad or on the part of the individuals who live there, these apartments go unmaintained and over time become more and more dangerous to live in but also become begin to look worse and worse to the outside world.
This brings us to a second argument which talks about how these areas lead to neighborhood issues.
Public housing is correlated with higher levels of crime and drugs just statistically, they have poorer school districts as compared to areas that are often times just a block or two away, that have much that have significantly better school districts, and what this ends up leading to is first, just like a propagation of crime and drugs, individuals who are born into these areas are surrounded by these kinds of influences and they don't really have an alternative but to get involved with them.
But also it leads to social tensions when you have areas of high poverty right next to areas of like high income.
And this kind of inequality is what leads to more violence and more essentially tension between groups.
So like richer people calling the cops on poorer people who are just minding their own business.
But also things like the graffiti-ing of richer people's houses and things like that.
It also poisons political support for poor people in the long term.
The community failure makes future programs less successful and individuals are more afraid of starting them.
It also just doesn't solve gentrification the way that we think that it might or the way that we imagine op will say it will because the surrounding areas still gets more expensive, so people still get forced out.
We think that what happens instead is that it causes more class tensions, like the rich areas will just get nicer nicer while the poor areas get worse, and eventually those people get forced out either way, because they simply can't afford the amenities in the area.
So like being able to afford simple things like groceries or laundry.
Proud to propose.