Don't abolish the jobs act.
We think the problem with a lot of what danny says is that he seems to agree that the jobs act is a fundamentally positive policy, rather his only concern seems to be that it isn't enough.
But saying that something isn't enough isn't a reason to abolish it, first, because the political capital that danny is worried about has already been used.
Abolishing the legislation won't bring the capital or the money back so you might as well keep it around and try to make it larger later.
Since this was pretty much all of danny's offense, we think that we already win the round.
But also, because this act was the result of an uphill battle, this is what we get to after there's already been a really large amount of compromise and political back and forth.
We think that this is fair to say that it is the best that we're going to get, and it would be awful to waste it.
The problem with a lot of what danny says is that he doesn't actually propose a mechanism by which we get a better deal after we abolish this one.
So we think what actually happens on the government side is that you get rid of the current jobs act but you have nothing to replace it with, and you have no political capital because you've already used it up on an iteration that you then got rid of.
I don't think we really have to give any more of a speech, but I will.
Two main arguments, first on why it's good for small businesses.
Recognize that a lot of what the job acts does is that it cuts the tax rate specifically for small business.
This allows them to have less expenditures so they can put more money into growth: things like hiring more people, expanding stock or services, upgrading their locations, literally any number of actions that are beneficial to those small businesses.
This is really important, because these kinds of policies also encourage more small businesses opening up.
In the status quo, there's a fairly large uphill battle that small businesses have to fight in order to stay open after they've become established.
There's a ridiculously large statistic for how many small businesses actually close after the first year of operation because they can't make any profit.
We think that when you have things like the american jobs act, small businesses see that it is easier to start up and less risky, so people who are considering starting one are more likely to do so and take that leap.
This is really important because small businesses are really good for the united states.
They provide better economic growth than large corporations, which often last tie a lot of their money up in foreign assets and do things a lot overseas, but also they work on a smaller regional level so they reach just more corners of the united states than the alternative.
Our second argument is about protecting jobs.
Danny explains that for a long time for danny spends a long time explaining why passing this kind of legislature is really hard, then proposes an alternative that consists of passing more legislature that would be more extreme.
Like we just think that it is really clear why his arguments are completely hypocritical.
At the point that he says it's difficult to pass this legislature at all, it is completely unclear to me how he passes something more stringent than what we have now.
He's already provided us all the reasons why we can't do his alternative.
Meanwhile, the current jobs act has clauses that help veterans find new jobs by providing a tax credit to the companies that hire them.
It puts money into public schools that they otherwise wouldn't receive, especially into stem funding that a lot of public schools don't have in the status quo due to how expensive a lot of the lab materials are.
It prevents teacher layoffs, and it keeps the jobs of firefighters and police.
It invests in public infrastructure like roads that we really, really need in a lot of parts of the united states, and it spreads wifi access which provides information to individuals and provides the tools for success to individuals who didn't have it, because recognize that we live in a world that massively requires individuals to have access to the internet if they want to do things like maintain communications for jobs or even apply to jobs, or if they are interested in doing things like continuing their education in any way.
Like at the point that danny doesn't provide a feasible alternative but thinks that the jobs act has positive impacts, we might as well keep what we have around.
Proud to oppose.