We shouldn't increase the capital gains tax.
Government probably spent a lot of time talking about how the capital gains tax just corrects for the fact that money made on the stock market is made on the backs of a public that never benefits from the capital gains themselves.
The problem here is that these debates can't be won on principle.
So even if they won the general argument, if there are other bad impacts in reality, it isn't worth increasing the tax.
The economy is much more complicated than just what is what is good or bad just or unjust.
It's about how people respond to changes and how that rebounds on the general public.
So a just action on principle can have incredibly detrimental effects on the economy as a whole and thus the people we all want to protect.
The other thing here is that we don't think that this is actually a situation in which people aren't benefiting off of money that others are making unfairly.
Rather we think, and we will get into this more later, that the investments that individuals make are in themselves a type of labor and that other people do get trickle down benefits when those investments result in the growth of the economy or the creation of jobs or any number of other benefits that is enjoyed by all not just the people who make money off of them.
Two main three main arguments: first on stifling investment.
High capital gains tax discourages individual investment in the first place.
This is because investment is always a risk and if you're not making as much money in the end you're more likely to decide that the risk in putting money away for so long that is inaccessible just isn't worth it.
A lack of investment has incredibly problematic impacts.
It means that you're not going to have nearly as much venture capital investment, no new businesses means that you will not have new jobs or innovative goods and services which is something that directly benefits the general populace at the point that new businesses create jobs oftentimes on multiple levels education and multiple levels of like social classes but second, because you're not going to have things like just like increased quality of life from the services and goods that are provided by these companies that now don't get to exist.
You're also going to have lower levels of economic growth and job creation.
More broadly, individual good products and ideas don't get investment and never get to market or the general public.
Like we have to recognize that the things that we do that change investment then impacts the entire economy at the point that all of our business and companies are built on the basis of having investors.
Our second argument is about the lock-in effect.
Capital gains taxes are only charge on a realization basis.
Meaning that someone can hold a lot of investments but as long as they don't cash in on them they don't have to pay the tax.
Increasing the tax distorts distorts decision making.
It means that instead of selling at a moment when it is most productive, ie the gains are high, there are better and more productive places to invest, people maintain their investment past the point of productivity because they don't want to have to pay that capital gains and they'd rather just continue waiting because they know they'll make some money in the end or maybe they're waiting for the policy to change and it's at that point just like less of a cost than transferring to something that would be more innovative or like more productive in the long term.
Capital that is locked into suboptimal investments and not relocated to more profitable opportunities hinders economic output.
All of the impacts we talked about earlier get amplified by the lock-in effect.
So you're going to have significantly less venture capital both because you're stifling investment more broadly but also because the investments that are happening aren't happening into innovative new technologies, they're just sitting in old company stock.
You're not going to have a growth of diverse economic sectors because all the investment stays in one place and you're just amplifying all of these harmful impacts.
Our third argument is that it is unjust.
People make this money fairly by calculating risks and returns.
They deserve to benefit from that more than they are tax.
Proud to oppose.