Don't ban electronic voting.
First, I have three main areas of clash.
First, I want to talk about accessibility.
Recognize that I think we all know what the ultimate world will be.
We prefer a world in which people don't have to leave their houses to vote, don't have to get a babysitter, don't have to face long poll lines, and don't have to face protesters, in case there's a polarizing election.
We think the way in which we get the most representation of democratic will, in which we make sure that our country is actually operating in the way that the people desire, is a world in which we have internet voting through our computers, from the home that we live in.
Recognize that this isn't technically the round, but recognize that internet voting cannot exist without electronic voting.
So limits on electronic voting now will impact the possibility of doing things like oregon state, that automatically registers their voters online and lets you vote electronically without having to get a paper absentee ballot.
We think that things like that are incredibly accessible in the status quo and incredibly likely to occur, given popular demand.
But these kinds of things go away when you ban electronic voting as a whole, because that is the mechanism by which we allow individuals to use the internet.
There are a lot of problems with using paper ballots.
We're going to get into them specifically later.
But there's also a lot of problems with having polling places in the first place and forcing people to go out to vote.
Things like how easy it is to block off the entrances to voting poll places by protesters, how easy it is to institute ID laws, how people can't get off of work.
We think that what drew has proposed is just another way to prevent us from getting to the ultimate goal which is accessibility of voting to all.
Our second area of clash is just a little bit of weighing with rebuttal.
Recognize that drew does a lot of stuff where he talks about how hacking happens, how fraud happens, and I think the problem here is that this is just incredibly non-unique.
Things like faking ballads, hiding a portion of the ballots, claiming fraud, etcetera, still exist in the status quo.
In fact, they are compounded by mass amounts of ID laws and by people who simply can't get to the voting place so their views can't be represented.
We think the problem with his argument that there's more likely to be a widespread hack than a rogue voting officer is just incorrect, right?
Like, pretend that widespread hack is just one rogue voting officer, given that these are both operations driven by one person.
Everyone has a political opinion they want to advance.
It's unclear why people at the polling stations are different.
However, it is clear to me that we can up our cyber security.
We can do things like air air gap our voting devices.
Like, there are ways to solve these problems that we can have, but there's never a world in which we can solve the problem of not being able to catch someone losing ballots, and that's where the electronic trail on your voting machines in the internet gets really handy.
We also think that you do things like expect hacking but like, as drew told us, you don't expect corrupt volunteers.
So we think our side of the house is just way more likely to actually be safe, especially in a world where, in the future, we're just able to understand these things much more clearly and we have better cyber security, because we've had better time to develop.
Our third area of clash is about efficiency.
Like, voting happens relatively often, and paper ballots are expensive.
This is true environmentally in that we are cutting down thousands and thousands of trees so that people can vote on public policy, but it's also true in that these are something that has to be kept track of much more carefully.
You have to hire a lot more people who are going to have to count and recount those votes.
You're renting a lot more space for physical polling places.
These might seem like small expenditures because we've been doing them for so long but, honestly, these are things that add up, and cutting that amount of effort that goes into this is always positive in the same way that even if a system happens to work, it is always good if it becomes more efficient.
Voting happens a lot.
It seems absurd to ban electronics in each situation and also mechanistically unfeasible.
We're fine with a world in which we delineate between certain elections being more important than others and so those get paper ballots, but what we're not fine with is a blanket ban on all electronic voting.
Proud to oppose.