The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize same-sex marriage.
I think the important overview here is that recognize that same-sex marriage harms literally no one.
We think that even the individuals who think that they're like emotionally or religiously harmed are most often just convinced that the gay people themselves are harmed in like are upset on their behalf because they want them to go to heaven and they like or whatever but secondly we just think it's an incredibly fake harm to be slightly emotionally upset that other peoples got people got to experience the same thing that you do and the same thing that you want to.
So we actually think that even if you can show that there might be like marginal emotional harm to conservatives, it's never going to outweigh the major harm and major blow struck to people who are queer and like not allowing them to marry specifically because of how much it means to them as opposed to anyone else and being locked up from a long term like path to self actualization.
With that, two main areas of clash, first on why it is unconstitutional.
Recognize that it violates the fourteenth amendment, which stipulates equal protection under the law.
There is no intrinsic difference between gay people and straight people and as such it is incredibly unclear why they should have to have a separate set of rights.
If straight people can marry so should gay people.
It also violates strict scrutiny in in that it discriminates on the basis of sexual orientation and doesn't actually like meet a pertinent government interest in not having gay marriage.
I think at the point that we've established that being anti same-sex marriage is ness is like very often just like conservative pop culture phenomenon in which they like to feel cool because they limited other people's rights we think it's important to recognize like the the fact that like gay marriage is actually incredibly beneficial first because it allows individuals who previously felt ignored by the government and previously felt like they weren't going to be able to self actualize in the way that they wanted to to like have access to that but also because it's like literally just the government enforcing individuals and power political like in power political views.
So like we think it's a problem that like our vice president gets to have so much control over individuals' lives.
Our second area of clash is why this is just like generally bad when we don't legalize same-sex marriage.
First recognize that it signals to society that gay people are worth less than straight people and so get less rights.
This is what happens when we codify in law inequality.
We saw this during the time of the civil rights movement where our unwillingness to give even like a full person's worth in the census to black people facilitated our view of black people as somehow less than individual humans but we also saw this in like the fact that as soon as we started moving towards abolishing slavery and have things like the fourteenth amendment, we saw these numbers drastically decrease and over time people started accepting less racist perspectives and viewing people of color as equal to themselves.
And I think the problem here specifically is that this signal reaches both street people and gay people and while like the straight people start looking down on those who are queer the problem is also that those who are queer are made to feel less than and it oftentimes serves as a blow to their own self esteem as well.
They are blocked from accessing one of the most basic roots to self actualization.
Recognize that marriage is deeply ingrained in the in like this society and culture that we live in as like a show of love and connection and like true connection to a human being.
We think insofar as that like that value is placed on it it is important to provide equal access to other people because I don't think it is fair of the government to say that like because you are of a certain orientation, you never deserve to actualize in the way that other people are allowed to.
For these reasons proud to propose.