We should privatize ports.
Two main arguments: first, on the efficiency of the free market.
Recognize that running ports is literally just a game of efficiency.
It's about organizing freights in ships when they are parked in place.
It's about creating an efficient schedule so that you don't have boats coming in too close to each other, but you also don't have large gaps of time without any activity that boats could have been going past each other.
It's about maintaining spaces that are separate for boats that are just parked there long term, so just tour boats.
It's about managing the prices for those kinds of things versus the ones that are actually carrying freight.
All of this is something that we just think is too much for government bureaucracy, especially since there's never an incentive for government bureaucracy to make the most efficient and high functioning port if your paycheck doesn't rely on it.
Government civil servants end paid the same either way, regardless of the bottom line, which means you can be literally the worst port manager in the world and still receive government benefits and whatever salary you were promised at the beginning.
For private corporations, every extra ship, every minimization of inefficiency, will personally make that individual more money as the port manager or, at least, build them up in terms of reputation so they don't lose their jobs and, better yet, so they can get promoted in to the long term.
This it what creates strong businesses that can contribute positively to the economy, and we think that when the government takes over these kinds of opportunities, it is doing both itself and the general populace a disservice.
Insofar as private corporations can handle this best, we think the government should not waste its time on it, especially since this is often something that is expensive both financially and energetically.
So, we actually just think that outsourcing this to another company would be best.
Our second argument is about preventing politicization of ports.
As globalization increases, dependence on trade and international communication is growing.
Especially we see that there are different private companies that are stationed in different countries that rely on loose trade barriers and strong essentially like ocean pathways and air pathways to make sure that they continue to function.
Ports are necessary to those kinds of things and to the agreements that they create, and we think that when they are publicly owned, the government can choose to shut them off in times of political turmoil and selectively use them to punish or reward specific countries that they might let in or not let in anymore.
Even if it is the case the country chooses not to do that, we think the perception that it could is the kind of thing that adds enough risk so that private corporations are uncomfortable with being in that country or using that port in the first place, because there are other countries that are less risky, where ports are private and things like that.
This is incredibly bad for the economy because ports tend to be profit producing.
Using them as political tools prevents them from taking the most efficient actions that would be best for society, since you often have to choose between satisfying politics and being economically efficient: for example, middle eastern countries' refusal to trade with israel, even though they're incredibly economically beneficial to their own people given that israel has a lot of technology and a lot of things like agriculture that would be good to share.
But and we think that it's even worse to extend that kind of decision-making to things like ports, first, because it just puts people's jobs on hold at random moments, but also because your country's just less likely to get get invested in, and third, because it does thing like things like allows crony capitalism to come in.
Giving high level jobs just to someone just because they're your friends or friends of the state is exactly the kind of thing that happens when you when bureaucracies get to control things that should be privately owned.
And even though it can happen in private corporations as well, it's not nearly as likely, given the fact that that person actually has to be good at their job so they don't use the lose the corporation money.
Proud to propose.