We should abolish foster care.
We basically model is by taking all of the money that has been put into paying foster parents, like paying for foster kids etcetera, and put that money into expanding orphanages and the quality of orphan care.
So we see like a lot of nations that don't dabble in foster care at all, we would prefer the US to follow in those footsteps and instead just make sure that the like federal orphan system is a lot stronger than it currently is.
Two main areas of clash, first on restructuring the system.
Recognize that the way that the US system currently works is that it gives money to foster parents per child, per month.
So if I'm like a foster parent who takes five kids, I receive a hundred dollars per child, per like ex number of days, and that's like a reliable source of income, and oftentimes there are ways to like cut down on the cost of the child itself that will allow me to keep a percentage of that, which we oftentimes see parents doing.
More on that later, but more importantly what you're taking away from this is that there is a lot of money pouring into these systems that could be going into the orphan system itself.
So we also see this put like money being put into recruiting these families in the first place, or to them become very systematic so they like come back over and over again, like money that goes into showing these children and transporting these children etcetera.
And what they do is they tell us that what this does is that it takes stress off of the system, but in reality if that money was being efficiently put back into the system, then that system wouldn't mind the stress.
We need to stop relying on poor stipends and instead fix the system that the majority of kids get stuck in, because we think it's problematic that insofar as most kids don't experience foster care, or if they do don't have a positive experience, that that is where the majority of the money is going, so the kids who might need to benefit most actually don't get to benefit at all off of it.
I mean it's like fundamentally unjust but also just like a poor use of funds, because you probably should be helping the majority of the children that are your responsibility.
Like a really good example of this is people who decide that they're going to learn a little bit about every subject rather than focusing on getting really good at one thing in particularly, because it's just unlikely they're going to get a job, because nobody needs someone who has a barely working knowledge of four million different fields.
Rather, you use that more efficiently by focusing on one thing and just making sure that it's a really really effective.
In the same way, we think that if people really cared about the current orphan system and they really poured a lot of effort into it, we think you would end up with a system that was a lot more functional than the status quo, where you're dividing all of your resources among so many different pots.
Our second area of clash is about just the pragmatic problems that arise.
We think that it's really unfair to children.
Recognize that the majority of foster families are industrial, they make kind of a career of taking kids in for the government funds, like treating them okay but not particularly well, they don't really have an intent to adopt them so it's not going to be a permanent home, so there's not actually any consistency as individuals are bounced from house to house, and there's also just like no way to be adopted by someone else while in foster care.
Like the definition of foster care is that you go there with this idea that it's a trial period, it was never meant to become like an industrial event where individuals are like systematically being kept there for long periods of time with people who have no intent of adopting them.
So I think what you do is you cheat individuals of the opportunity for adoption with potential other parents.
We think that it would like actually be a lot more preferable to just stay in the same orphanage.
Like we think this is better for kids' psyche, it's easier to build connections that are more longer term than like sitting in a foster home where the parents don't want to build a correction with you because they know they're not going to keep you, things like that.
We also think it becomes a lot easier to prevent abuse on our side of the house.
It's really difficult to check against individual foster parents because you're just relying on like the word of the child, as opposed to like individuals who can background check, who are working in it for the government, who work with other adults, we actually like watch them and make sure they're being good.
So and like we think that that's actually really bad because really good, because the abuse in the foster care system is like quite widespread, and that's something that we solve on our side of the house.
Proud to propose.