We should subsidize athletes.
Look, I think that in these situations, we need to remember that this debate is primarily about college athletes, who don't really get paid in the status quo.
We think that this debate is about providing athletes with a livable wage for what they do, and we don't particularly care if that subsidization comes from the government or from colleges, the important part is that we're having a debate about them getting paid.
And I think this is really quite important of a distinction, right, because I don't think we're getting into the minutiae of how they get paid in this debate, I think we're getting into whether or not like establishing the principles of whether or not they ought to do so, before we can have that discussion of where it comes from.
Two main arguments, first on rights.
I think it's really important to recognize that college athletes put an absurd amount of work into their sport and often get no compensation.
And I'm sure that government came up here and talked all about how they already get scholarships and things like that and how people who play ball in college will often get recruited into the more professional aspects that will pay a significant amount of money but, first, I just don't think that those scholarships are enough, right?
Like I think there's a difference between receiving money for education versus receiving money that I can use to subsidize my own lifestyle.
But second, I think that these we need to remember that there's a majority of the type of college athlete, and the majority of college athletes don't get recruited into big powerful teams.
And I think that's like very important to remember, because when we talk about how these people will get compensated in their future, we need to remember that a lot of them won't, but also that that doesn't negate the need for compensation now.
And I think, also, remember that getting things like a scholarship doesn't compare at all to people actually getting paid for their labor.
Like this is why there are really heavy regulations on when jobs can offer only room and board as compensation, because we recognize that people who put in work deserve more than just like a bare minimum or like a gift, which is essentially what a college education is, like it would be the equivalent of getting someone a really nice gift basket for the hours that they spent doing that thing.
And we think that we have to recognize that they simply deserve more, especially since these people are often told to put the sport above their well-being or academics and, moreover, that if they suffer an injury, they often lose those associated scholarships and have nothing to show for it compared to, say, if you lost like got an injury, but it was more like losing a job in that you were no longer paid and you have to find something else.
We think that it's incredibly unethical to not pay them regularly.
Like we think that is a right within a capitalist system to get compensated fairly for your labor, because you are putting into the world and losing some portion of yourself, so you deserve some exchange for that, especially given that the entire world relies on individual paying for for things and for goods, and you literally cannot survive without that money, and also given that the amount of like effort that they're putting in, oftentimes more effort than someone who works a job while in college.
In the status quo, college athletics is pretty much just slave labor.
Our second argument is about encouraging physical fitness.
We live in a world where obesity is becoming a larger and larger problem.
And with obesity, comes obesity-linked disease, like higher rates of diabetes, and higher rates of heart disease, and like everyone has high cholesterol now.
And we think that one of the ways to combat this is by encouraging physical activity, by showing that athletics can be lucrative at a non-professional level, right?
In the status quo, when I go to college, the only incentive I ever have to work out is for myself, but we think that if I could have a job as an athlete in the same way that I have a job at IBM right now, that's something that would really empower me to work out for those kinds of positions as well.
And we think that this action is just generally good government signaling and we would support it.
Proud to oppose.