Don't prohibit slum tourism.
Look, I think that the one thing that james doesn't seem to understand is that we're not going to argue that slum tourism isn't problematic.
Of course, there are aspects of slum tourism that are incredibly extortionary, and it is incredibly problematic that the type people who participate are often those who have a lot of privilege and a lot more money than the individuals who they are viewing.
But recognize that james never addresses the alternative, that these areas stay slums and don't get any minor benefit off of the tourism that could go through them, which we think is actually far worse.
It is similar to the argument that sure, there might be exploitative practices in companies abroad when they hire in their hiring practices inside their companies, but we still think that it is probably better for individuals to have jobs than not, right?
Similarly with slum tourism, even if it is culturally problematic, if we show you that there are pragmatic benefits to those areas that they would otherwise not accrue at all, then we think it's okay to swallow up that moral harm and go along with the pragmatics.
Two main arguments, first on economically benefiting these countries and poor areas.
I think james is not fair when he says that because these people take buses and drive through these areas, they aren't paying for the buses or like paying for services, or hotels, or food in those areas.
First, because recognize that oftentimes the services that provide tourism in those areas are created by people from those areas and are run by companies in those areas, so even if the creator and main person who benefits isn't of that slum, the majority of the individuals they hire are.
And this is just like for regional logic, right?
Like if you are organizing tourism in a given area, you need people who know that area and trust that area and, especially if it's dangerous, will know which areas are safer versus more dangerous.
But also, the entire point of slum tourism is for these like privileged white people to feel like they're connected with these other cultures and these other communities, and the only way they can do that is not through like isolatedly driving on a bus, but rather it's by actually going into these areas, buying souvenirs, experiencing the food, doing things that they feel gets them more connected than just driving through.
So we think that when james says, " hey, they're not eating there, " he's just wrong.
Right?
Like we think these people are having meals there.
They're buying souvenirs.
They're leaving a lot of money comparable to what normally gets spent in those areas behind when they go away.
We also think that because the state also benefits off of slum tourism and from like the economic activity that it generates, they're much more likely to now put basic infrastructure into those areas so that slum tourism can operate there.
So things like better policing, better roads, all of those have crossover benefits to the individuals who live in those slums, but are likely to be installed by a state that feels like the foreigners who come through would appreciate those changes and it would improve their tourism.
So we think that this is also good for people who live there.
James says that they undercut traditional tourism.
This is just untrue, right?
Traditional tourism doesn't happen in the slums, and they aren't mutually exclusive to traditional tourism.
Like either someone is coming because they want to see both, so maybe they stay at a resort for a few weeks and like take a tour in a slum another day, or you're coming uniquely because you want to see the city uniquely, because you want to see the slum.
Like we don't think that one replaces the other.
And moreover, we don't think that this is ever something that would like like, if anything, we think that slum tourism benefits traditional tourism because it means that if someone is coming through like earlier for traditional tourism, they'd probably drop by the city as well and like that would encourage them to keep coming back.
Our second argument is about contact theory.
Like, sure, it's bad that these people are having fun from this tourism, but they still leave with good views of these populations and a lot of sympathy.
It means that into the long term, these individuals are more likely to do things like donate to charity and protest the governments that allow these slums to develop in the first place, so if we're talking about brazil.
James is worried about it being demeaning, and we agree it's really problematic that poverty is generally demeaning, but at least this allows people in poverty to benefit.
Proud to oppose.