We shouldn't further exploit enhanced oil recovery.
Government probably talked all about how getting that last bit of oil really lets you be as efficient as possible when it comes to using up an oil field, but I don't think that there is an inherent benefit to allowing the corporations that are doing bad to the world have a better record, or have a cheaper way, or more efficient way of getting as much oil as possible.
I don't think we care about any of this, because if we show you that they are further entrenching fossil fuels and fossil fuels themselves are bad, then we don't think the addition of another technique is a good thing, even if it accomplishes something that like furthers a particular group's cause.
They have to show that it is good for the rest of society, not just for oil companies.
And I'm sure they also talked about how this decreases the cost of oil and how it makes it cheaper for people to be able to heat their homes or go about their daily business, but we'll tell you why when you decrease the cost of something like this, you actually have a net negative impact on the world, because you take us farther from finding more sustainable resources that are not only going to be cheaper in the long term, but are not going to have the same kind of degradational environmental effects.
Two main arguments: first, on prolonging fossil fuel dependence.
Enhanced oil recovery is just another technique for us to avoid transitioning to cleaner energy.
Because without it, companies in the general population would be feeling much more pressure to transition because the cost of oil would be significantly higher, and companies would be struggling a lot more to find available oil in the first place, which means there would be a larger space within the market for green energy companies to say, " oh, look, you're not being fulfilled right now, we can fulfill you better. "
Every moment we continue to depend on fossil fuels is more global warming and air and land pollution.
We prefer to bite the decrease in efficiency in order for the world to receive the message earlier, especially since the impacts of prolonged fossil fuel dependence are drastic.
Recognize that things like the national mall is literally about to be underwater, but also recognize that these things are preventable.
We have projections of what we happen what will happen if we don't decrease emissions versus if we do, and they present two radically different worlds.
If we start working on this now, we are much more likely to be able to achieve a livable future in the long term.
And even if it is only a staving off of the inevitable, we still think it is worth it, because it means that it provides more time for researchers to find radical solutions to these kinds of problems.
Our second argument is about entrenching fossil fuel companies.
The problem with these kinds of techniques is that it gives these companies more money which they can then use to translate into lobbying power, and then this lobbying power is used to give themselves more tax breaks and benefits as well as to forcibly drown out greener companies.
As such, anything that gives oil companies more funding is something we should oppose, because they used up their power to undercut the natural progression of the market and the preferences of the american people.
And this kind of distortionary power is incredibly problematic because it prevents a democratic decision, which can only occur when people are fully informed of the consequences and understand what they are choosing between.
At the end of the day, we think that the sooner we start more research into greener energy, the sooner that energy will become cheaper and competitive with fossil fuels and the longer we can stave off global warming for.
Proud to oppose.