The problem of gov on this motion is that they completely mischaracterize what zoos actually look like.
First recognize that the majority of zoos care about the animals that are within them.
Hire researchers that decide what the enclosure diameter ought be based on the animal and their needs.
And more than this that animals are usually provided with needs to the point that they often live longer in zoos than they do outside.
Moreover our side doesn't have to defend bad zoos that abuse their animals and don't allow them to live fulfilling lives.
We think that those are animal abusive on both sides of the house.
Government is defending no zoos at all so they have to prove to you that even if this animal is having the best life possible provided with all their needs that they still ought not be in a zoo.
Two manners of clash.
First on why animals do not have the right to infinite freedom.
Agreed they probably have a right not to suffer.
So if we show you that these animals aren't suffering while in zoos we already win this round.
But more than this we're going to explain to you why animals don't have the same moral weight as humans because even if they conceptualize suffering and some of them appreciate relationships with those of their species usually animals have no concept of the future and they don't experience intense extreme emotions.
Rather they are driven by biological drives that push them to do things to satisfy needs that are very basic and uncomplicated.
So even if they have a basically air of sentience in the same way that we probably don't think we have to protect the right of the yeast seller of the bacteria we think that if an animal can't conceptualize the future and can't conceptualize the open space in which they're in we probably don't have an obligation to put them in the most free scenario possible.
These kinds of things taper down based on how much sentience the animal has.
Given this we think it's acceptable that if some animal has an equal sentience to humans so we think the closest we get is the elephant probably those do not belonging in zoos.
But gov also has to defend the possum and the hedgehog that probably don't care that they're an enclosure that are perfectly happy being stared at by humans and but but gov still wants them to not be allowed there.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why zoos are good for animals.
First on a physical level as we told you in zoos animals tend to live longer there aren't any predators they get balanced nutritious diets and they usually have a large enough space with others of their species.
But second we think that for the long term good of animals in order for people to care about the future of animals they must feel a connection with them.
Most kids don't find connections in the wild because it's unlikely that if I'm from an inner city I'm somehow going to have time to go on a safari where I see this tiger that in the future might get endangered then I get a choice to protect.
The only time that I'm going to experience seeing an animal that is majestic or wild or not native to my area is if I go to a zoo and this is the only time in which I can create an emotional connection that forces me to care about their long term safety.
Because it is very easy to say I'm not going to give money to a system in which I have never experienced or never cared about or never seen that is why we often see men who are capable of making incredibly poor decisions about women's health care.
If I'm not a woman and I don't really care about women I'm not going to make good decisions for them.
In the same way if I'm not a tiger and I've never met a tiger and I don't really know anything about tigers I'm probably not going to consider how the long term survival of tigers is going to impact anything other than me and we've already figured out that it doesn't do so.
So if sam cares about animal rights so much and cares about their long term happiness the only way in which you capitalize the net happiness of animals is by allowing the children that become the future to form connections in the now those creatures so they're going to care about them later.
For these reasons proud to oppose.