We shouldn't end privatization.
I'm sure that government talked all about how the government can make sure to protect its workers' rights and compensate them fairly.
The problem is that it's not clear why the government shouldn't have a wouldn't have a profit incentive such that it would be equally abusive to workers as the private market, but also it doesn't answer the question of why we can't have regulations, in the status quo, so that workers are protected within a privatized system.
Things like the minimum wage and labor laws provide any benefits that the government could offer and does so much more absolutely, because while those regulations are not prone to change or corruption, things like the government owning every single private business definitely is.
And we think that having meaningful distinction between the government and the market allows the government to act on a as a check upon the market in a way that you can never ever have in gov's world, where any corruption of the government necessarily also corrupts every single large corporation and business.
And I think that's a really big deal in these kinds of debates, because we have to recognize that we are not always going to live in a state where we trust the government or trust what it is doing or the actors on the government are moral, and we have to prep for that worst-case scenario, where the individuals who are running the government are not individuals who you trust to make moral decisions, even if the regulations are still in place.
And I think this is actually really akin to what we have going on right now with donald trump where, even if maybe we would have trusted someone like obama to make sure that citizen rights are protected, we definitely wouldn't trust someone like donald trump.
So we thank the fact that there's a distinction between these corporations in the government, because those regulations act on those corporations regardless, but they wouldn't act on the government if the government went rogue.
Two main arguments, first on corruption of the government.
Mixing business and trust with government interest just means that the government will put people in charge of the businesses that are friends with the people in power in the government, and this cronyism ripples throughout, with people putting their friends and families in power all the way down the line.
It then becomes impossible to remove these people if they stop doing their jobs or are doing a poor job because, in doing so, you would anger the individuals who hired them, and they are unwilling to take that action.
It also makes it really easy for money to get siphoned from the business by the government or by the people the government put in charge such that profits aren't actually being invested properly or aren't going to the correct places after they are made.
Our second argument is about the efficiency of the private market.
When the government owns all the businesses, it sets the wage for all the employees and executives.
This wage doesn't change, regardless of how well the business is doing, because it is set by the government, and it means that executives don't have any incentive to make their company do well the way that they do in the private market, where success of the company directly relates to them getting paid more.
This means you won't get nearly as much innovation or progress, because the motivation simply doesn't exist.
And it also means that prices, on net, will be higher, because there isn't an incentive to work hard to keep prices low.
At the end of the day, things like ending privatization sound really pleasant when you talk about them in their best-case scenario, but you have to recognize that there are real world constraints that prevent these things from going off perfectly.
And oftentimes, humans' nature for corruptibility really prevents us from getting the most out of those kinds of systems.
And the private market being separate almost protects individuals from their governments, which we think is really important.
Proud to oppose.