We think the problem of side government is that they don't recognize that we exist in a world that contains both television and computers that allow for streaming.
What this means is that we think there's a fundamental problem in their entire case in that they attribute all of these all of these benefits to computers that do not go away on our side of the house.
We think that we can celebrate these benefits that computers and streaming provide while also recognizing unique benefits of television that mean we ought not abandon them.
But more than this, we think specifically this means that arguments about culture or arguments about minority groups being able to break through into programming do not matter insofar as on our side of the house, you're still going to have like computers and streaming, you can still have youtube channels for minority groups and more conventional television on TV.
The question in this round is not are computers good, but rather is television bad?
It is one that government never answered, but I'm going to give you two broad reasons as to why television is good.
First we want to talk about widespread information in a relatively accessible and easy manner.
We think that, sure, factually there is more access to more data at a cheaper price on the computer.
But what side government does not recognize is that computers also require a knowledge of how to use them.
And we think that there are two very important groups in society that often do not know how to use computers, as well as one other very important group that often doesn't have time to invest in in using computers to the way that side government would have them do so.
We think that children and old people are two large groups that often cannot use computers on their own, but can turn on television, do know how to use a remote control.
We think that what side government is saying, essentially, cuts old people out of the equation and forces them to depend on younger people to do their streaming for them.
But more than this, we think that a lot of the time it is easier for parents to plop plop their children, who also cannot use computers, in front of a television rather than spending hours downloading content to replay for them later.
We think that this is a really important thing to keep in mind throughout the course of this debate.
But more tha this, we think the kind of we think that a lot of the time, it's actually better for cultures through television.
We think it's important to note that a lot of bundles include home country bundles.
Like, my grandparents who came from russia are able to stream russian television on their TV by buying that bundle of channels, and it feels much more like home to them than a online streaming service ever would.
We think, as such, it's actually better for for people to use televisions in this case.
But we think it goes past just the level of the family, right?
We think that small businesses often have televisions in the corner of their stores for people to look at and for people to enjoy while they are there.
We think this is both good just on a, like, straight uplevel.
But more than this, we think that a lot of the time small businesses can be culturally affiliated, and it's good that guatemalan places can play can play guatemalan television, because a computer just wouldn't be big enough for them to do the same.
Our second area of clash has to do with the cost and why we think it naturally decreases.
Because recognize that the current world is trending toward using computers to stream because the younger demographics are easily able to use computers and use them more often.
What this means is that TV producers aren't dumb.
We think what they do in in response is create new and cheap bundles that actually make more sense for older people to buy, or people who like television more to buy, on preference than computer streaming programs ever would.
If drew is so worried about overhead costs, we think it's important that streaming requires one of two things: either a working knowledge of like of deep wide streaming techniques and illegal streaming services that won't give you massive amounts of viruses on your computer, or amount of an amount of money to put into things like hulu or netflix.
We think the contrasting side is that CRTs are cheap, and cable packages are easier to manage in like small monthly payments.
We think that in the end, this is actively a better choice for a lot of people, and you ought not be abandoning it completely.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.