The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon television.
What we mean by this is that we would prefer if people used online streaming devices instead of like owning a television or buying bundles of channels.
Two main areas of clash: first on television being obsolete.
The way that television works is that it only provides certain channels, usually in bundles that people can purchase, with more expensive bundles containing more channels.
But the problem with this is that even the smallest bundle is either not going to is not going to include all the channels that you want, while usually including quite a few that you don't need to watch.
We think that, in comparison, streaming on the internet allows you to choose exactly what you want, either for free or much cheaper than what a TV would offer.
So, already we're seeing what we're seeing is a more efficient system that is also less expensive and caters to an individual in a much better way, because maybe I'm only looking to watch bravo, but because I can only buy bravo if it is contained within a bundle of five other channels, one of which is fox news and the other of which is sports, then it is not like I have to pay for those extra channels even though I never use them.
Already we're seeing that this is an obsolete system that computers and online streaming have already moved past.
More than this, we think the problem with television it's not very diverse, and when you're using it you're not getting exposure to a lot of smaller artists or like minority figures.
So, we think that because whenever you're in a certain country, your television is only going to stream the channels in the language and of that country, it's always going to be subpar to the compared internet where you can find online where you can where online streaming allows you to choose any language or any nationality or any group that you want to watch.
So, like, my russian grandparents can't access the russian TV on their television because that's just not one of the options for bundles.
But being exposed to streaming allows them to actively be able to choose what they want to watch, and it caters to their desires.
We also think that it's good where online, smaller artists can break through much more easily because in order to be on television, you have to have those networking and, like, those connections in order and like the money to spend to end up on television.
But anyone can make a youtube account and anyone can and a lot of like smaller artists can make contracts with netflix, where it's cheaper, and so you're actually going to be providing yourself with a more diverse group and more exposure to diverse groups.
Our second area of clash has to do with why abandoning television provides more spending autonomy.
We think that you end up in situations where you might find some channels to be problematic, channels such as fox that are very republican, channels such as stars that play very sexist shows and portray women in very negative ways, all of these you end up forced to support because they get bundled with other with other channels that you actually want.
So you never actually get to make a decision about what corporations or what channels you want to support and which ones you want to send a message to.
Other examples of similar situations might be that some channels are also much more expensive, and you're forced to stomach the cost of something like ESPN, which is much more expensive than most other channels, even though you are never going to watch it.
It's still bundled in with the rest to spread out the cost.
We want people to have more choice in what they are going to buy and be able to use their money more efficiently.
The fact that someone is going to pay for ten channels and only watch two of them means that all the rest of the money is going to waste, and we think that it's better for the individual to be able to use that money elsewhere and only watch what they are actually going to use.
For these reasons, proud to propose.