High school should be mandatory.
What we mean by this is that an individual would essentially be required to finish high school and if they don't they would be facing a fine.
Recognize that in this this really isn't much of an additional burden.
In the status quo it is already the case that's high school is mandatory for minors so the only issue becomes when individuals turn eighteen in their junior or senior year, and then choose to drop out of high school because they are adults and no one can control them.
So we think that we should be making those adults stick it out, or creating a very large incentive for those adults to stick it out, by doing things like imposing a fine or imposing some kind of punishment.
We don't really care about the nature of it but we want to be strong enough to require individuals to be in high school.
Three main arguments: first on promoting basic education.
We think that there are multiple reasons that just having an education is valuable.
Of course first and foremost among them is that in the status quo it is really difficult to get a job without at least a high school diploma.
That is to say even a high school diploma at this point is almost not enough to get something that is stable and high paying but if you want to access anything close to that you have to at least have a high school diploma.
So if you don't graduate from high school you're basically stuck with jobs that are either like cashier work or very like very low paying minimum wage jobs that are very unfulfilling.
So, but we also just think that education has intrinsic benefits in other ways.
It allows you to have a better understanding of the world and to critically think more effectively.
But also it does things like gives you the ability to vote and make political decisions more intelligently because everybody takes that like high school social studies class or civics class.
And like hears the criticisms of our government, and learns how to do things like research.
And we also think that a lot of the time high school breeds this desire for knowledge.
It teaches you that learning can be really fun and really engaging and that you can choose subjects that you have preferable to yourself.
And we think that it's just good for the country to promote having citizens like this.
We think that critical thinkers are what make the world go round and even if you stop at high school the fact that you got that far, the fact that you can be intellectually savvy or like have the right language to engage in higher social circles is really important.
Because it allows you to have that upward mobility and it allows you to participate in society as a more fulfilled citizen.
Our second arguments is about creating adults with options.
High school degrees open doors to options even if someone doesn't want anything directly after high school.
What we mean by this is that if I drop out of high school and ten years down the line I decide that I want to do something with my life besides whatever I was currently doing, that like maybe requires trade school or college, it is really hard to get into those things if I didn't have a high school diploma all those years ago.
It would mean that I'd have to start the GED process, which tends to be long and difficult, and still doesn't mean as much as a high school diploma does.
So, we think that just making sure that individuals get that out of the way when they are young means that ten years down the line when they're older and have less options they don't have to be trapped.
By that they can do things like go to college or go to trade school.
A lot of these programs require high school diplomas that in the past didn't.
So in the past you could go to a trade school or a two year program without a high school diploma, and that is something that is changing right now because of the fact that we have so many individuals who want these things and like these programs want people who they think are better so they require that high school diploma.
Our third argument is about keeping people self sufficient.
We think there's an intersection between individuals who drop out of high school and those that end up relying on government assistance we want to prevent that from happening.
So we think it's good to mandate high school because you're just less likely to end up in poverty, less likely to end up needing help.
Proud to propose.