We shouldn't abandon tabloid journalism.
Three main arguments, first on fulfilling people's preferences.
People enjoy the tabloids.
They know that the majority of tabloids are a lie but they want to read them anyway, and we think that that in itself is a harmless practice at the point that they're not actually believing the information in it, and they're not reading that information in order to take an action based on it, they're just reading it because it is something that brings them pleasure.
But also, recognize that sometimes these aren't lies and it's important too, because there are real scandals and outcries that are released that people then get the ability to respond to, which is something that is actually quite important at the point that we have things like the importance of free speech, at the point that people spend their money to to support the celebrities that often get reported on, and at the point that people are essentially voting for and supporting these politicians that also get reported on.
We also just think that tabloids are a really good distraction.
People's lives tend to be hard, and tabloids to provide them with a good distraction and let them delve into others' lives instead.
Gov might say that tabloids are bad for the celebrities and politicians whose private lives they expose, but these people opt into the public eye and make hundreds of thousands of dollars off the general public.
We think it is a small price to pay that they get followed around by paparazzi.
It's also important that they're followed, since people have the right to know who they're paying for.
Politicians and celebrities have massive impacts on the general public, whether it is through their wallet or through the policies that then impact the general public.
Our second argument is about maintaining the industry.
Government probably thinks that tabloids aren't an industry worth maintaining.
This isn't fair because it doesn't recognize the nuance of tabloids, first, in terms of jobs which tabloids create.
Journalists already often have difficulty finding work.
Tabloids are a good experience and make them some money in the meantime when they're looking for something more stable or more intense.
So we think this is just something that maintains journalism as a field at its base so that people can work their way up.
It also provides a connection between individuals and the celebrities they idolize.
The general public gives a lot of itself to celebrities, and we think that they should get something back.
It also generates income for more important work.
A lot of serious newspapers that have tabloid sections use those tabloid sections in order to fund their more intense work, because serious newspapers don't sell particularly well and a lot of media can be found online for free, but because tabloids sell really quickly oftentimes, it means that you can actually get the money that allow you to then fund the future.
Our second argument is about problematic our third argument is about problematic regulations on free speech.
We don't think that government should regulate free speech, which a ban on tabloids would necessarily be.
Slander and libel are going to get prosecuted either way, because the victims are going to press charges if they feel like this impacted their lives.
And the victims for tabloids are usually celebrities or high profile individuals who have the money to do so, but we think that actually prohibiting those tabloids is a slippery slope, because banning tabloids means that courts will have the ability to decide what a tabloid is when evaluating future cases.
And this can easily get infiltrated with political incentives, calling newspapers that displeases certain politicians or businesses tabloids to stifle what they are writing by saying that these things are tabloidesque, and we think that this really wins the round.
Because even if government proved that tabloids are bad, if we think that the other news is more important, then we cannot ban them for fear of the way that it overflows into news media more broadly and into free speech more broadly.
Proud to oppose.