We should end censorship.
We are talking about this as a general concept.
We're fine with individual corporations and individual companies choosing what they put into their products and maybe like excluding certain characteristics based on that.
What we are against is the government censoring information or material based on any standard that you give within the public eye.
Two main areas of clash: first, on why it facilitates government overreach.
Recognize that when it comes to censorship on a federal level, the government is always the determining authority.
What this means is that the government gets to decide whether or not something is worthy of censorship and what the standards for censorship are.
This is incredibly problematic because different governments have different ideologies.
So setting a precedent for any censorship provides an avenue for future expansion per se.
Even if the current government within the united states might be one that is generally liberal, like, generally the ideals that I personally might agree with or like the general mass might consider democratic, there's no guarantee that the future president and the future people in power are going to be similar, so setting laws in place that allow future groups to exploit them is still bad.
The easiest way to stop democracy is through censorship because it prevents the public from hearing diversity of opinions and streamline what they do get to hear and what opinions they get to hold.
This is why we always value a lack of censorship above some uncomfortable material from sliding through.
This is especially since private businesses can still personally refuse material.
It is incredibly unlikely that the new york times would ever post nude photos without some kind of online block first or some kind of consent first on their front page.
There's no world in which a like strip club puts naked photos on top of a billboard, because they know that it would actually hurt their business if people started complaining about it or saw it as against like the societal values or that village's values.
And there's no world in which like, like, basically the public market polices itself, and we don't think the government has to do it for it.
Our second area of clash is about why the marketplace of ideas is good.
If the public wants some piece of information out there, we don't think it is the government's place to say: no, we are paternalizing it, and it cannot go through.
Things like curse words, things like nudity, things that we consider obscene, or things that we might sensor based on their value are all things that are usually used in an emotive sense, so they add intensity to a statement or they're used to portray some kind of message or ideal.
And we think that even if there are some instances in some locations in which we think that may be bad or it ought not exist, we don't think that we ought compromise them existing, in general, just because there might be some context that aren't perfect.
This operates very much like economic market.
People will shame you out or exclude things that make them uncomfortable or they don't want.
So, anything that exists is like particularly usually hate speech, if you are in spheres in which this is considered bad, which is the majority of society, it is unlikely that your like this idea will survive the marketplace.
An example of this would be, like, as I told you, posting nudity on public billboards.
This would never help sales so there's never an economic reason to keep that up there.
The question is only whether we think everything deserves consideration before slapping something down with a censor.
We think that this is bad and that we would prefer a world in which people got to decide for themselves whether or not something is preferable or unpreferable to have in the public eye.
Proud to propose.