Don't have a carbon tax.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is ineffective.
We think the existence of a carbon tax lends itself to three scenarios: either the company is big enough to afford the carbon tax and it is cheaper for them to afford that carbon tax than to have to switch out all of their technology and adjust to the new use in which case nothing changes, second the carbon tax is a nuisance so the company moves to another country without it, or third the company is small and can't afford green technology or location change or the tax so it shuts down.
None of this actually changes the way that companies behave, and even if it does, it does so on such a marginal level that we don't think it is worth the countries that necessarily do move to other countries that have lower regulations or do shut down because they cannot afford these kinds of things.
We think this especially effects startups that don't have the kind of capital that allows them to start out green so they rely on cheaper more ingrained developed materials but now that they have to do things like pay that carbon tax they're infinitely more likely to shut down than they previously would have been.
We think that you need more structural change for this kind of stuff.
You need to stop oil lobbyists, you have to subsidize green technology, you have to attack these kinds of things at the core economic incentives and the reasons they haven't changed yet.
If it was economically preferable to have to have green technology, it would have happened without a carbon tax.
So make it truly economically preferable, not just economically punishable so that you don't have to you can't avoid that kind of punishment by moving to another country because rather than being a punishment it is just a preferable state.
Our second area of clash is about the false sense of solvency.
First we think that the things I listed that are preferable to do necessarily trade off with the political will used to install a carbon tax.
What I mean by this is that the fact that you now have a carbon tax makes you less likely to be able to accomplish things in the future because people have already used up all of the energy that they have about this issue fighting for that one thing.
But second under this we think that what this does is it creates the idea that oh look we solved it we have a carbon tax when in reality all you did was displace that company into another country that is even less likely to be able to deal with this effectively.
LA may have smog but it's also rich enough to paint their roads white and develop technology that might fix it and do things like how people like creating political will in the streets or investing in green technology because the average family earns so much money in LA.
More developing countries with which to whom these kinds of companies move to don't have the kind of technology necessary to fix it and it that the impact that is infinitely bigger as well because you're going to have like layers and layers with other companies in the areas that are also taking advantage of this and you have so many companies moving on mass.
We need the political efficacy of bougie LA hipsters with asthmatic kids and they just don't exist when these groups move to countries like vietnam or the borderlands of rwanda.
Our third area of clash is about why it's for america.
Companies that leave take jobs and economic growth with them and companies that fail to start up effectively never provide the jobs and economic growth that they could.
We think an interest of making sure that our economy continues to grow you can't do things like the carbon tax because of the threat that it has, especially now when we are doing things like building up a larger and larger deficit or having times of less economic stability and inflation.
Proud to oppose.