We should adopt slow food.
I think what we mean by this is that we would prefer it if there was a general trend within society that individuals opted for slow food, IE that which is like defined by traditional slow food, so those that are culturally significant to your region, farmed in a environmentally friendly, and friendly to your workers kind of manner, and oftentimes are made up of ingredients that are local and you can read the names of all of them, and so on so forth.
So three independent points.
First, on why it is physically healthier.
Recognize first and foremost that slow food is all about doing the opposite of what fast food is.
So you're not using mass production of using pesticides or chemicals, you are lowering the amount of frying that is happening, you're making sure to cook it in a preferable manner, you're using ingredients that you know where their source from, they're usually local.
And what this means is that it is oftentimes a lot better for your body than the alternative.
Because recognize that fast food, and honestly a lot of the food that we eat that is pre-made, is oftentimes absurdly processed, and we actually have no idea what is inside that food or how it can impact our bodies.
So it is really important for us to take a step back and do something like slow food, and recognize that this is something that is just healthier for us, it is less likely to increase our cholesterol, or increase our risk for diabetes or heart disease, which we think is very positive.
But we also think that people who eat better personally feel better, like you feel like a healthier person.
It's less likely that you wake up in the morning and you like don't feel like you can function, you have more energy, you're more likely to have a better sleep cycle.
And all of these things lead to like a better feeling of self-esteem and personal like emotions, which we think is very positive for people, especially in a world where we're so used to that kind of gross feeling of overeating, even though we've only had one burger, but you know it's had like sixteen hundred calories in it because of the oil that they use, or something similar.
The control that it allows us over our food, over what enters our body, is something that is crucial to maintaining physical well-being.
Our second argument is about being regionally respectful.
Recognize that when you have slow food, it is performed and it is prepared using cultural cuisine and ingredients, and in that it like pays homage to the region.
So the way that slow food was essentially founded is that in italy they were trying to build some large corporate mcdonald's or something in like a very culturally diverse area, and what the people did instead was embrace the local penne.
And that's something that is very important, right?
Like recognizing that regardless of globalization, regardless of the fact that there are all these corporations rushing into your favorite areas and rushing into your hometown, you maintain that like cultural line to your local culture and your local traditions.
Recognize also that these are often the same kind of traditions that are at risk of dying out with the push for things like assimilation.
So we think it becomes even more important to make sure that these tiny traditions, that are so valuable to individuals who practice them and have this inherent cultural value, continue to exist.
It also just pays attention to the working condition a lot better, which means that the workers are more likely to be treated well, more likely to be perry paid fairly.
But also it means that when you are importing food from other areas, you're making sure that the individuals who originally made that food are being compensated fairly.
Like we have massive issues right now with like coffee beans or where the production line is so separated from the source, that they don't see the product if they don't see the profits from that product, which is incredibly problematic.
Our third argument is about environmental friendliness.
We think that when you're creating food on smaller farms, when you're making sure you're not deforesting to mass produce, these are all things that impact the environment in positive manners.
Proud to propose.