We should increase reforestation.
By this we just mean that we think that there should be a general effort and like money put into situations in which we try to replant the trees that are being cut down and kind of like like reforestation is self explanatory.
We just want to replace the trees that have been taken out in the forest, that have been taken out.
Three main arguments, first on protecting the environment.
Trees a play a really important role when it comes both to just like the food chain in the ecosystems they exist in, but also in terms of like the broader topsoil issues.
Like as we've heard, a massive thing that trees do is they stabilize the soil in the area because their roots create systems that keep that soil in place.
And then what happens is that when it rains you don't just get all of the soil being washed away because you have these systems of tree roots that keep it in place.
So one of the biggest problems with deforestation is that you're getting rid of those root systems and those trees, so when the rains come all of that soil gets washed into the local water sources, it pollutes those local water sources, it kills the animals in those water sources, and then sets off these other chain of events.
The problem with side opposition is that they're always going to be flying in the face of the fact that nature is one giant domino effect.
You can't just take out a portion and expect everything else to stay the same.
Trees are just one item in a long line of things that affect and interplay with each other.
So when you remove trees from the equation, you're setting off these dominoes like you're setting off the pollution of the water supply, you're setting off the death of these animals, you're setting off the death of the future animals who survive by eating those animals that you've just killed off, and this just keeps cycling and snowballing and we think that that needs to be prevented.
But also, we think replenishing the trees is independently a good thing too.
Like recognize that a lot of these trees provide homes and sustenance to the nature that surrounds it so when you destroy them, you're necessarily cutting out those other groups of animals as well.
This is the problem we're having with the destruction of the jungle right now, is that when you cut down the jungle because you want to use the trees for things you are also destroying all of the flora and fauna that grew around them and relied on those trees which is bad because a lot of the time we didn't even have those things documented.
So it's unclear to us what exactly we're losing.
Like it's completely possible that some of those animals contained chemicals that could have been really useful for us or did things that we could have really learned from.
Aside from like the very clear it's bad that we're losing biodiversity, it's also really bad that we're losing these things that could've been truly useful to humanity as well.
We also our second argument is about creating a clean atmosphere.
Trees filter the air, they make it cleaner and more pleasant.
They deal with the pollutants that we're constantly sending into the atmosphere and they also provide oxygen.
So when we cut down trees, we remove that which can produce oxygen while continuing to produce more and more carbon dioxide every day which then contributes to things like the global warming effects and all of these other things that trees can directly act against.
We we reforestation we start to adjust that balance which is sure maybe not enough but will be better than doing nothing which we think is important.
Our third argument is about aesthetics.
Trees are just really pretty, they allow children and adults alike to feel like they are comfortable with nature and enjoy it.
There's really never a downside of reforestation which is why I have a really hard time imagining what opposition is even going to say.
Like the existence of reforestation and efforts does things like increase jobs and other benefits that I list.
It's the burden on op to show a negative to reforestation that would outweigh any of this and we think that's super hard because we just don't see any of these negatives and we think that any marginal negatives like maybe it's an expensive process are just outweighed because that expense is not so large that it should be worth doing not doing something so good.
Proud to propose.