We shouldn't limit judicial review.
Two main arguments: first, on the right of the supreme court.
Government probably talked about how judicial review was established later in the existence of the country and so it isn't a legitimate right derived directly from the constitution and not something that maybe the founders intended for the supreme court.
But we think the problem with that is that it neglects to remember that those decisions that the supreme court makes, that legality makes over time are still legitimate things that like matter, right?
Like when I make a new law about abortion or a new law about privacy or like cars or literally anything, these aren't laws that we decide not to respect on the basis of them not being in the constitution, rather we recognize that the continual creation and recreation of our legal system is still something that has to be respected insofar as those groups have authority placed upon them and insofar as that is true, we have to respect things like the decision of marbury versus madison.
So unless the government bench manages to disprove the entire court case and just show us why these things are just illegitimate even though they were created by legitimate institutions and were derived from legitimate court rulings, we don't think that they can win this round and under this just like general principle of it not being in the original constitution.
Insofar as this is an established law and ruling, we think that limiting judicial review would be unconstitutional.
Moreover insofar as this is one of the main duties of the supreme court, limiting limiting it essentially strips the supreme court of its most active duty.
Without judicial review there are very few jobs left for the supreme court.
They can pretty much only examine actions of lower level courts but it prevents them from being able to exert any larger scale impact on original legislation which is really problematic especially when we consider the fact that there's very few ways to change existing legislation once it occurs without relying on the people who passed it which we'll get into more in our second independent point.
We think but however we think that even if they can prove that it is constitutional or generally legal to remove judicial review, we think that if we prove that judicial review has a net positive impact then it's still something that is worth having around and you're going to pick up op.
This brings us to our second independent point which is about checks and balances.
First, judicial review is inherently democratic.
First, because it requires individuals to bring the cases up to the supreme court in the first place but second, because it is one of the only responses that people can have to undemocratic or harmful legislation.
So this isn't just about stifling the duties of the supreme court, it's also about the fact that when you limit judicial review you are limiting the voices of the american public and preventing them from being able to voice their displeasure or actually affect change when legislation is passed that they see as unfair.
And we also just think that the problem here is that whenever we have these kinds of debates we should be deferring to the general public.
Like we live in a democratic society in which individual people should be able to affect positive change in their world and make sure that they are living in a way that they like.
So as such, we think this is one of the most important arguments but also we think the fact that this lets the court check other branches of the government is incredibly important because otherwise there would literally be no way to strike down unjust laws except waiting around for a change in congress or in the case of executive orders, the president.
We also just think it is good to have this because it prevents those branches from getting too much power and from individuals getting stuck underneath kind of oppressive legislative or executive branches.
Government might say that sometimes judicial review is used to strike down positive or liberal legislation but this is an argument that cuts both ways insofar as anyone from any political background can bring this up.
So you have to evaluate it on the basis of the principle that if individuals have concerns with their government, they should be able to bring them forward.
Proud to oppose.