Don't tax infant formula.
Two main arguments, first on why there's a societal harm.
First I want to address this argument that danny makes about how it's good to breast feed and how in general weaning kids off early is good.
First we think this is debatable, which danny actually acknowledges.
The research on whether or not it is preferable to breast feed your child or give them formula tilts slightly in the direction of breast feeding, but isn't particularly conclusive on either of these things.
And it also points out that there are individuals who oftentimes simply cannot breastfeed.
Whether it is because they are cancer survivors, weather it is because they have some kind of condition that makes it impossible, or whether it is simply because they are working mothers who can afford formula but cannot afford the time or the energy that it takes to breast feed someone.
Either way it is not for the government to decide what is going to be better for infants.
It is for the best actors, available who are the parents, to gauge when their children should be coming off of formula.
This is because they are the ones who are going to do with the financial pressure, and because these are the people who are going to be raising that child for the rest of their life.
But also recognize that in countries like the united states we've acknowledged that parents generally have a right to decide how their children are going to grow up.
So even if this isn't something that we can like objectively warrant, this is a value that society has shown and the government interfering in those values is incredibly problematic.
We think that parents need to be able to make the decision about formula without the additional financial pressures that an additional tax that other gods don't have to deal with being added to infant formula.
All this does is make it more difficult for people who are trying to take care of their kids to do so.
It raises the probability that young children will go hungry or the adults who raise them if they're giving up their own food to afford things like formula.
And this is really bad because young kids are exactly the type that need to be eating properly unfettered by unfettered by the financial limitations that might exist because proper nutrition is so important to their development.
If a tax causes significant societal harm, you shouldn't have that tax.
This is because taxes are meant to be a way of redistributing and causing good in society, but if it's calling harm on the way the net effect is not worth it, it's still going to be bad.
So we think that when the government says we're going to tax infant formula in order to fund all these other things we think are good, we think that the government is still doing a net bad thing because of the hole that it creates in society as it attempts to fill another one because taking from something like infant formula is detrimental in such a way that it negates the good things you could do with that money.
Our second argument is that it is an unfair tax burden.
Government has to show a specific reason that infant formula ought to be taxed more than any other food or basic necessity.
Saying that it is prevalent and a lot of people breast feed the way that danny did just isn't enough.
Should we also tax things like bread more harshly because that's something that everybody eats a lot of?
If anything we think the fact that a large swath of the population relies on a good is more of a reason for the government to subsidize that good because it's doing a public service for the general populace.
So even though our side won't go so far as to say we should subsidize infant formula, we think this is enough of a reason that you definitely shouldn't be taxing it extra.
Moreover we just don't think that danny's analysis is correct.
We don't think that infant formula is the same as other food options.
It is specifically necessary for babies in a way that foods that other foods aren't.
You can choose to buy cheaper food options to have a lower tax, but you can't just choose to not have baby formula if you're a family that is already using it.
So there's no way for you to kind of minimize or manipulate the existence of these kind of taxes.
Proud to oppose.