We should further exploit aquaculture.
What we mean by this is basically just that we think it would be a better world in which we focused more on aquaculture and moved away from things like commercial fishing and even used it perhaps to substitute forms of hunting.
Like we just think that this is something that ought to be used a lot more in our society.
Two main arguments, first on why it's good for society.
Under this first is that it is physically healthier.
Recognize that vitamins found in fish we don't often get in many other places.
This is everything from like literal fish oil that people often resort to drinking and it's disgusting or to the vitamins of, but a lot of people don't have access to those or don't realize they should be taking them.
So it's not reliable for individuals to get this as a regular vitamin or a regular thing that they like put into their bodies very often, but it's also things like omega three fatty acids that are really important in things like cell repair and your energy levels, and all of these things are affected.
And we think it's really problematic that there are really easy ways to get more of this but a lot of people just don't have access because of how inaccessible fish has become recently with issues with over commercial farming that has made fish so much more expensive.
It's also a lean meat that is considerably better for the human body then the large amounts of carbs and fatty foods that we have in the status quo.
Like when people did research on which countries had the best diets in like the twentieth century you often had results that pointed to countries like china and like japan, that ate so much fish and included so much fish because of the kind of nutrients it can provide you on a very like healthy meat based as opposed to things that have a lot of fat or are high carb.
It also is really good because it means of these things are necessarily going to become cheaper.
In the status quo the reason that the price of fish, and especially good fish like tuna and salmon has been going up so much is that in is that we have been overfishing our oceans to the point where the supply has become very low but the demand continues to be very high, especially from countries as I mentioned like japan and china that use this as part of their regular like meals and their regular life.
So we actually think that providing more people with access to this means more people will get those necessary vitamins and those like better essentially supplements to your diet from like the things that we might be eating in the status quo.
But second under this, we think it does things that create jobs.
Recognize that a massive amount of research has to go into creating aquaculture based groups and aquaculture based infrastructure.
Because this is often times a lot of things that require like advanced efficiency, different kinds of conditions, you have to figure out which conditions are best for the type of fish that you're going to be growing, all of this requires scientists who are going to study them, it requires individuals who are creating that infrastructure, who are building that, who are designing it, and so you need people who are actually going to be running those farms.
So we think that it's actually quite important that we do this.
Both because it is like physically healthier but also because you can do things that create jobs and stimulate the economy through it.
Our second argument is about how it's good for the environment.
In the status quo there are massive amounts of commercial farming.
This pollutes our oceans, chemicals and equipment that are coming off of these boats and going into the ocean, and first of all also poisoning these fish which is contributing to the issue of almost killing off these kinds of animals, but also ending up in things like the water supply and destroying the ecosystems that are living within them.
We think that aquaculture can be done in a way that is uniquely sustainable in that you can use controlled conditions that can help keep wild ecosystems separate from fish bred for human consumption.
And we think that's something we're really lacking in the status quo.
Proud to propose.