The energy industry should be nationalized.
An important thing here to remember, when the government nationalizes an industry, you don't remove the professional aspect of that industry.
There will still be experts who handle energy in a business-like manner.
This is just a debate about whether or not energy provision as a whole should be a competition within the private sector or whether we think that the private sector is not capable of handling that kind of burden.
The government is capable of accomplishing everything that a private corporation might provide but will do so in a more egalitarian manner.
And even if there are some efficiency or some quality harms from having the government be in charge of this, we think it's still worth it insofar as we're going to provide coverage more holistically and make sure that people aren't being abused by their energy companies as often happens in the status quo.
Two main arguments, first on removing the profit incentives.
Private companies are beholden to their stockholders and their profit margins.
This means that they're never going to prioritize the benefit or security of the average citizen.
The people don't matter to private companies and will always come second to making more money.
This is something the government is capable of overlooking.
They can choose to prioritize the well being of the citizens above the amount of money they want to make.
In fact it is their obligation to do to do exactly that because they are the government.
They are literally elected to represent the interests of the general public first and foremost.
They also collect taxes which means they can afford to take some profit cuts in order to make sure that the people are being provided for whereas even if a if a energy company is just going to be starting out or like maybe isn't as like millionaire dollaresque as we imagine them to be, it might be harder for them to be able to afford or to be able to justify taking the same kind of profit cuts in order to provide for the people.
This profit incentive is central to providing correct care.
As long as companies only care about the money they feel comfortable cutting power on children and families, they feel comfortable providing shitty service that they charge a lot for in order to keep making money, and they feel comfortable creating personal monopolies to prevent competition from accomplishing the positive things that competition can do you like have innovation and other such things.
We think that we think that at the end of the day, what matters most here is making sure that energy is being provided by an entity that actually cares about the population that needs it, because recognize also how important energy is to the average person.
We use it to power our houses, we use it to get to work, we use it to cook food, during the summer it is necessary for air conditioning in areas where it gets too hot to exist without it in the same way that it is necessary in the winter to make sure that people don't freeze to death.
At the point that these are literally peoples' lives on the line, we don't think we trust private corporations to take care of that because they are always going to be corrupt and always going to want to make money more than they're going to care about the people.
This brings us to our second independent point which is about taking care of the general populace.
The government is much more likely to actually provide for the general populace, partially because it has to be directly accountable to the people.
It looks really bad for the government when it fails at doing something like providing people energy because of how central it is to people's needs and because of the government's role as a whole as being this thing that is supposed to take care of the people and provide for the people and because the people give up so many rights to the government.
Meanwhile private corporations get away with it because they are hard to sue and have huge law teams.
There's no way to access justice against them while at least against the government even if the legal aspect is still difficult, you have optical harms that the government wants to avoid.
In the status quo the government can pretend it's not their problem because private corporations are the ones messing up.
We want to take away this excuse from the government, we want to make them directly accountable for what energy needs of the people, and we want to make sure that people are able to actually get the coverage that they need which in the status quo does not occur.
Proud to propose.