We should limit the exploitation of natural resources.
In order to model this debate a little bit what we mean is that we would do things like make a compile a list of natural resources.
This would include things ranging from oil, gas, but also hitting more common goods like lumber and things like that, and we would create essentially tradable permits up to a max cap of how many natural resources we think should be used which could be decided up upon by like an environmental commission, or a group of knowledgeable individuals who know about like the state of our nation environmentally and how many environmental resources we ought be using.
Then we would leave it up to those countries to trade those those corporations to trade the environmental resources as they need and do like what they want from then on.
So two main arguments, first on encouraging innovation.
Recognize that when you create a financial incentive to be sustainable since you won't have to buy more permits for the use of resources on and thus save money for your company, or you'd have to continue to spend money on that, so it's like always preferable essentially on our side of the house for a company to say: " hmmm I'm gonna cut down on my use of resources because it's going to be cheaper and could even be profitable to me if I choose to sell my permit. "
This is the only incentive that corporations respond to.
Since they don't actually care about things like the long term outcomes of the environment.
They are profit driven entities that care only about the short term.
And even if gov op makes the argument that some individuals within corporations care, we don't think this is a phenomena you can rely on.
Like just historically, based on corporate actions, there's been very very little care for the way that they treat natural resources and majority just an attempt to get as many profits from those resources as possible while they as they can.
This is why we need things like government intervention when it comes to protection of our natural resources.
And we think that all of these actions in technology to protect these natural resources are completely possible.
It's it's just about doing the research and development to get there.
Things like hydroponics and other forms of indoor agriculture, lab grown meat, green technology that reduces emissions and decreases carbon use, all of these things exist in the status quo or the research to create them exists in the status quo.
Is just about companies having an incentive that is financial and motivating to actually accomplish this.
And recognize that this innovation besides just being good for the environment and good for like natural resources as a whole also has a lot of flow over benefits.
For example it can do things that create jobs, on as we have more need for researchers and more need for lab tax and more need for the people who transport these kinds of goods.
It can also open up new spaces in the market for independent companies that actually focus on this.
And this being like the protection of natural resources and technologies that cut down on our use of natural resources.
Because in the status quo there isn't a demand for those kind of companies to exist.
They aren't profitable and they're very risky.
But if you show that companies have a need for them, it's much like the need for consulting companies.
Like it it'll happen.
Right?
In the status quo you have entire companies devoted to consulting and coming in and demonstrating efficiency.
We think the same thing is likely to happen with companies that can do things to decrease the amount of your permits that you are using so you don't have to spend as much money.
Our second argument is about protecting the environment.
We think this is just something that is always going to be true.
We don't think that op would be smart to argue with this because it's literally just a fact claim.
Like we need to start making the environment more of a priority because in the status quo the situation is becoming worse and worse.
You do have the issue of not being able to like grow crops in the same way because of changing weather patterns, you have diseases in places they never existed before, and we think this is a really good way of starting this process because it doesn't cut companies off cold turkey and it allows them to decide where they want to be sustainable.
So you don't make companies really angry, you don't risk the economic harms that I'm sure op will bring up about companies fleeing, because this isn't difficult for those companies.
It's just about how we're going to treat a problem we're going to have to deal with eventually.
Proud to propose.