Don't increase student financial aid.
The problem with student financial aid is that no matter how much you increase it, it will always be finite.
What we mean by this is that the goal should never just be to increase the amount of financial aid we give out.
Rather it should be providing free college education so that we can benefit all people rather than just those that are lucky enough to qualify for the narrow boundaries and constraints that universities will often place on what makes you qualified for financial aid in the first place.
There are many individuals in the middle class who aren't poor enough on paper to get financial aid but for whom a college education is still a ridiculously high financial burden.
If we show you that increasing financial aid is going to hinder the long term goal of free college education, we win this round.
Moreover we think that drew didn't prove something very important in his speech that he would have needed to do in order to win this round.
He needed to show that increasing financial aid means increasing the number of people who receive it, not just increasing the amount that the person who's already receiving it is going to get.
Because we think that the problem right now is that is that individuals just aren't that the constraints on who qualifies for financial aid just aren't large enough for individuals to be able to fit inside them who need to fit there.
We agree with drew.
Colleges have become a necessity and we need to treat it monetarily as such.
We are agnostic whether the money comes from the government or from the universities themselves, we just think that we have to fight for it to be free even if it means not increasing financial aid in the status quo right now.
We disagree with drew on another thing.
We don't think it's the case that people are receiving aid who don't deserve it.
In fact not enough people are getting it.
Most universities that are private are need blind.
They're just not defining need broadly enough which drew's model doesn't change.
He's just giving more money to the people who are already receiving it.
Two main arguments, first on the false sense of solvency.
Currently people are willing to put political energy into free college and increased financial aid because the problem is very visible and aggressively effects large swathes of the population.
If we actually increased financial aid people would think that the problem was fixed and stop trying to push for more.
We would allow the populace to get pacified by having their demands partially met when in reality they're still not getting what they need.
We think this would be incredibly problematic because that kind of passiveness is what allows individuals to keep being abused by the systems that they have very little control over and would continue to mess up generation after generation of college students who would still not be able to afford the education that they to serve in a way that is easy or accessible.
Our second argument is about splitting political will.
Increasing financial aid pulls from the same political group as free college tuition and uses the same political energy.
So when we start mobilizing for increased student financial aid we take away and exhaust the people who could be fighting for free college tuition.
This is really problematic because it compounds with the falsehoods of solvency to make it so that even fewer people who are fighting for tuition exist.
At this point I think we've done enough to prove that increasing financial aid might look good in the short term but causes a long term roadblock in accomplishing the goals that we think are most important to this nation.
Proud to oppose.