We should abolish juvenile courts.
Our model for this is fairly simple.
We think we should formalize a set of rules as to what happens to minors who commit crimes based on the type of crimes.
So essentially we would say that anything that is lower than like first degree murder of multiple people, we would say it doesn't actually have any kind of jail sentence rather you would just maybe keep that person under surveillance, you'd have them check in with the parole officer regularly whereas crimes that are above that intensities of first degree murder and above would be just send you to regular adult jail if you're found guilty.
And we think that in this way we can maintain punishment for individuals who are doing really egregious things but we can still have some degree of separation between children and adults when it comes to the way that they are treated by the courts.
Two main arguments, first on preventing cycles of recidivism.
The problem with juvenile courts is that they are really bad at distinguishing themselves functionally in their impact from adult courts, because you have kids who are basically adults like seventeen and eighteen year olds and you also have kids who are actually kids like ten year olds a twelve year olds and they all kind of get pushed into the same system.
And then what happens then is that you have these interactions between people who might have committed much lower level crimes or who are much younger with people committed higher level crimes and are much older.
And this builds these kinds of criminal networks that we hear about all the time in prisons like when they have gangs and that people are more likely to be involved in criminal activity after they get out than they were before because of the connections that they make and because of the influences that these people now have over their lives.
And we think like sure they siphon kids to different prisons but the impact on the kid is still really similar in terms of the psychology as the impact on an adult or like a young adult is when they go to regular prison.
You're still going to have judges who pass down harsh sentences that often put kids in communities where every stimulus around them will push them back into that criminal system which we just think isn't the goal when someone is that young.
Like we think that they're written infinitely more options for redemption when you're dealing with children than when you're dealing with adults.
These are people who haven't fully formed their conception of the world, who haven't created their social networks yet.
People who can really be sent down a different road if they are treated properly and we think that we need to explore options that can actually rehabilitate them outside of the prison system rather than just sending them into that pipeline right away.
We also just think that the answer to a lot of these issues is to stop reinforcing those behaviors and putting them into those communities.
Instead you should work to give kids another chance by not isolating them from society and putting them in a box with a bunch of other criminals.
Moreover we think that the reasons that people commit crimes as children tend to actually be quite similar to adults.
So we think they shouldn't be punished in order to try and prevent the bad cycles that prison starts, but if they're committing like truly awful crimes like first degree murder and above, then they should probably end up going to jail and being punished the same way as adults and their age doesn't actually change the severity of their crimes.
Obviously we can have some case by case control like if a ten year old ends up going on a murder spree we think there can be some court leniency there and some like maybe we want to separate them a little bit differently if they don't go into the prison population things like that.
But in general we think it is a good guiding principle to abolish the juvie system and kind of operate more in the confines of maybe we won't send them to jail at all or we will send them to jail the same way that an adult would.
Our second argument is about cutting bureaucratic costs.
Juvie is just a redundant system that costs the same as the original, so you're just paying twice to have essentially the same thing occur.
It costs the same as adult court but accomplishes nothing that adult court court couldn't accomplish and insofar as we don't really need it, we just think you might as well get rid of it and cut those costs down and maybe use that money in other ways like use that money to build real rehab programs and like put therapy into prisons and do things that might be able to cut that recidivism rate down and things like that.
Proud to propose.