We should decrease the use of automation.
The only thing automation does is takes away jobs that people with less education rely on and lowers the managing costs for massive corporations.
There are no benefits to society or the average person, only to the private corporation that gets to cut costs on the labor.
The places where automation increases efficiency, such as with computer data sorting programs and such, has already been implemented.
When the motion says decrease, we're talking about stopping the current trend of automation entering restaurants and replacing things like the servers that work there, or the like grocery stores where you can automate check out, things like that.
We think that in this kind of debate, we're always going to be prioritizing the average citizen because the profit margin on those corporations is very large either way.
Not increasing that margin or taking some of that profit away will not make that business not run.
Like it is not the tipping point for that business, but it can be the tipping point for the person who loses their job.
We think that just because something can be automated does not mean that it should, because we think that sometimes we are willing to sacrifice efficiency in low risk sectors if we think that it will protect the rights and the well-being of the people within those sectors.
This is why in heavily bureaucratic countries and heavily government-owned public enterprising countries, you have jobs that can be a little bit more fluffy or less necessary, because it allows us to continue growing the economy when that person, doing that useless job, is still able to spend money on these systems and things like that.
Two main arguments, first on protecting jobs.
When automation sets in, it destroys jobs without replacing them.
This is because the jobs that can be automated are the ones that you usually don't need a higher education for.
But once those jobs are gone, there aren't new fields that don't need education opening up.
Rather, you've just eliminated the ones that existed at the bottom and the only place where you're adding jobs are at the very top, where more and more and more education is necessary than anything the kind of people coming out of these low-level jobs could have accessed.
This means that people just end up stranded with nothing once they're laid off, which is incredibly problematic, because these people now don't have the way to make money end up and they end up suffering and being in poverty, which not only means that they rely on government systems more heavily, thereby draining government benefits, but also it's just personally bad for them because now they don't get to feel independent, they don't get to enjoy a basic standard of living, and many other damages that come along with being in poverty.
But in addition for it being bad to the person in like personally, it's also bad for the economy.
When people lose their jobs, they can no longer spend money on random goods and services that keep money flowing throughout the economy.
It also means that people don't feel secure more broadly due to the threat of automation, so even people who aren't personally laid off will spend less money and hoard money, because they're afraid of the potential of being laid off and they're afraid of the lack of predictability.
Our second argument is about maintaining security.
Automatons run on the internet which means that they can be hacked.
This is inherently a security issue in a way that people will never be, because regardless of how hard you try, you're not going to be able to break into the mind of an individual and make them cause damage to the thing they are working on, but it is easy when you aren't securing things properly, as small corporations often don't, to go in and hijack entire automated sets.
This can be used to do things like commit acts of terrorism, but could also just be by like kids who just want to goof off.
Regardless of which option it is, it's going to be worse than just having a person do that same job.
Proud to propose.