We don't think that there should be any prohibitions on unisex bathrooms however, we think that the government is fully justified in creating laws that require areas and public spaces and universities to provide both options as in a men's bathroom, a woman's bathroom, and a unisex bathroom and we think that's very likely to occur in either world because of politics and oftentimes people make those arguments and there's a lot of political will against unisex bathrooms already.
So it's often really likely that in places where they exist, they're also going to offer both of the gendered ones.
We also just think that we can do things to make it safer for individuals in those bathrooms such as rather than having urinals you would have all stalls.
Like last time I checked even a person with a penis can use a toilet and so having things like thought in order to protect people from seeing each other's nude bodies can be incredibly helpful.
So three main areas of clash.
First, on destigmatizing and desexualizing the human body.
There's a problem today where nudity is always associated with sexuality.
This is especially true female nudity because of the context in which we see it most and because of the way that the media portrays it where we're constantly bombarded with images of women being naked in different situations and we never see them for instance just being naked and living their lives.
It's always in a sexual context.
It's always in a way that caters to the male gaze.
Put at the end of the day, people happen to be people even women and we need to start normalizing nonsexual parts of the body but it's really hard to do so when the genders are so divided.
There's such a weird taboo around the human body and human bodily bodily functions.
It's really easy for men to relegate women to a sexual object when she can imagine they when they can imagine that she never defecates or never farts or never has any kind of bodily function that would necessarily label label label her as a human just like any other.
We also just think that destigmatizing bodily functions is really really important.
The reason that it's really difficult to get political advocacy for providing free menstrual products is because men are never forced to face what it feels like to be caught in the situation where you cannot afford a pad or they never realize how necessary that is for somebody else and we think that when you have things like unisex bathrooms, when you force men to come in contact with the female body in ways that aren't necessarily sexual and you force them to accept that the female body works very similarly to their own when it comes to basic bodily functions, it's a lot difficult to put their bodies on the subject objectifying pedestal and deny them rights when it comes to menstrual products.
Our second area of clash is about accommodating gender identity and decreasing this pressure to label self.
We think it's hard enough to be trans or nonbinary without having to deal with the bathroom situation.
Like it's just true that oftentimes it's not just a preference to go into a male or a female bathroom when you're trans, but rather you will actually be harassed should you go into the bathroom that has your designated sex aumf like your designated from birth sex because you do not look or do not appear or do not present to be the gender that you previously identified with and so we think that you should be providing people with the most ability to choose their own life and protect themselves from these situations as possible.
We also just think that we care about these people a lot insofar as they've been structurally disadvantaged by a society that embraces a binary that is completely false but also under this we think that showing political support for the trends in non binary rights are really important because at the end of the day these are people that deserve support and deserve to have equal rights as anyone who identifies as his gender and banning bathrooms leaves them abandoned and leaves them without any kind of recourse to identify as they please.
We also just think that there's no reason to do this to do this in so far as other regulations can solve for things like a lack of safety.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.