Don't ban homeschooling.
First a little bit of framing.
Recognize that there are two main groups of individuals that are that tend to homeschool their children.
There tend to be overachievers that are often times find themselves in bad school districts either because of job limitations or because it's a cheaper standard of living like either way but these are people who are doing fine insofar as they often pull their children out of school in order to better their education because they recognize that the school district is over stressed or not capable of being as advanced like maybe they moved from a stronger district.
Recognize that these people are doing fine on both sides of the house and honestly better on ours insofar as they've clearly identified with what their child needs more of and are capable of providing that, so we don't think the debate is about them.
But then we think there's another group of individuals who tend to be overly religious, they pull their kids out of schools because they don't like them to look at naked shoulders and they don't want them to learn about evolution.
And these are people who we agree are probably going to be not amazing at teaching their children things that are solvent but at the end of the day recognize that these are also the people who are most likely to find a way to pull their children out of school regardless or send them to like very harsh incredibly awful catholic schools that are infinitely worse.
We think at the end of the day this debate round is about individuals who are going to be bad either way and which side provides less of a mechanism for them to be awful.
Two main areas of clash, first education as a parental right.
Recognize that children are the imprints that parents get to leave on the world insofar as they are individuals that are literally created by these people and raised within the context that they choose.
There's no objectively correct form of child raising but someone has to do it.
State actors and religious institutions are always going to have incentives that are first and foremost for their own personal growth and only secondarily for any child that is within their care.
Rather parents actually have an incentive to care about their children's needs often times before their own and so I think that it's actually preferable to allow individuals that are going to have some modicum of the child's need coming first.
But also recognize that some as long as someone has to do it and the majority of individuals get to choose their mechanism it is unfair to deprive some people of this right but not everyone.
Like recognize that people can still send their their children to religious schools etcetera and these tend to suffer the same harms that are listed by tim of being a sub par education and providing bad social standards.
At the end of the day you can still use educational benchmarks like the SAT's or the standardized testing that happens at the end of the year dependent on the state but the question is just do we allow a different mechanism for the students and is that within parental rights.
We're also fine with adding regulations like we're fine with creating one week a day in which they have to come in and spend time in a classroom.
We're fine with mandating some kind of like computer oversight like all this is fine we just think it needs to exist.
Our second area of clash is why it's better for public schools.
Recognize that people whose parents would otherwise be helicopter parents tend to be like one of the groups that is instead going into homeschooling.
These people are going to are ones who had passed through the teachers and the schools and take up more than their fair share of resources thus helping to overburden an already overburdened system.
But recognize that a form of this is true regardless of the type of group that you buy into.
Public schools are often overstressed and lack the resources to fully account for every single student in the best possible way.
Therefore we think that it's good when we unburden the system and provide more attention to those sticking around.
We're fine with some people leaving and parents taking on the burden themselves insofar as it means that there are more overall resources left to allocate again across the rest of the students.
We also think this is especially true insofar as homeschooling isn't even that bad in terms of quality.
Like tim would have you pretend that it's like this completely unobserved awful thing in which students are learning one two three four five once they're still in like fifth grade but in reality it's oftentimes comparable insofar as it often has a computer like course workload and people find a way to like and people find a way to like get overseen by theachers a lot of the time like we think the people are doing okay.
Reasons proud to oppose.