Before we get into the meat of the debate it's important to contextualize what exactly these recall elections look like.
Because in the status quo, for cause recalls and impeachment already exists.
This means that if someone commits a crime or ethical violation, they can be removed from office and someone else can be elected either way.
So the only question in this round is only whether we should allow recall elections based in public will, not in legality.
Three main areas of clash: first on why this leads to regressive politics.
Because when you are choosing a recall election you're not choosing to recall one candidate in favor of the runner up.
Rather, you are choosing to recall one candidate in favor of an entirely new election, with multiple other candidates.
What this means is that there's always going to be a world in which the far left and the far right can imagine getting someone closer to who they prefer being in office.
This means you'll have unanticipated bipartisanship in the case of a recall election starting, because both groups will want one to occur, since since they're going to then want to try and elect whoever they want.
This has the potential to become endless, but also leads to a lot more targeted advertising once the recall starts.
Recalls can become tools of political manipulation.
Because if a if you get a recall going, you can now start targeting groups and populations within your region to vote either far right or far left or for whoever you want to start.
Which essentially rather than having a situation in which once in every x years people become pawns that are attempted to be manipulated by political parties, you now have an endless time in which people are constantly being manipulated by political parties, and political parties are constantly strategizing about how they can better, like using a recall, get who they want into office.
Our second area of clash is why this leads to bad politics.
Politicians are elected because their political views are Representative of the majority.
But this doesn't necessarily mean that every action they take needs to be representative of the majority.
This is especially true if they are asked to make a more unexpected or a swing vote kind of decision.
And this is something that they weren't necessarily running on in their platform, or it's something that is very important to a vast majority of people within the state but not necessarily to the voting population of that state.
As often happens in states that have large non voting populations, such as new york or any like large city areas.
So, if there but the problem is that if politicians are consistently afraid of any kind of recall election coming up, they're going to shy away from making even slightly controversial decisions and rather always vote moderate.
The problem with this is that policy change doesn't occur if people are constantly trying to meet in the middle.
If his entire second term obama had been afraid of a recall election, you would never have had meaningful environmental policies, because he would have been afraid that the republicans would have pulled off the bench.
We want these changes to occur however because they lead to a on net better world, but also stop stalling the bureaucratic process as we often have today.
On their side of the house you have much more gridlock.
Because no one can make a decision, because they're afraid of being recalled.
Our third area of clash has to do with why, given how useless they are, recall elections are just too expensive.
First you have to you have to like summon up the power to cast the like re-cast the votes, have all of like the polling in place, and all of that infrastructure, which is relatively like expensive, then actually recount them, so on so forth, in a positively in a possibly infinite cycle, until the final choice.
This is millions and millions of dollars, not counting what is spent of on advertising, which is then millions and millions more, that could be going to more productive causes.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.