We shouldn't cancel pride parades.
Right off the top, I think the problem with what sam is saying is that all of it can be adjusted by by having more inclusive rhetoric, having more inclusive pride parades, making sure to include representation.
Like the motion has a blanket assertion that we should cancel all pride parades, so the burden on opp is only to show you that even though some of them might not always be the best, we ought not be canceling, even the vast majority of them.
Two main areas of clash: first, on solidarity.
Recognize that incredibly often, being queer is really difficult.
It's an uphill battle against many, many individuals who don't think that you have a right to exist in the way that you do.
Oftentimes, you are beating against family members who personally attack you and make you feel unsafe in your environment, make you feel lonely and unloved.
Like in the end at the end of the day, it's not easy to be queer.
It's something that is oftentimes difficult, and something that children struggle with a lot, and something that is often found to be like an " I wish I wasn't " kind of situation, where people regret it or wish they could change themselves.
And among all of this difficulty, it is incredibly important to show that this is also something that can be celebrated, can be fun, you can take pride in it, and you can love it, and that's something that pride parades do.
Because recognize that even if pride parades started as a mechanism by which to ride against the government and show that you are being oppressed, they have vastly become a celebration of queerhood, situations in which individuals from diverse backgrounds that share a sexual orientation or share a category of being something other than heterosexual can come together and say, " hey, look at me.
I am alive.
I am rebelling against you through my existence, and I'm rebelling against you through enjoying that existence. "
And so we think that there isn't anything that can replace it in that same way, because nothing else is as public.
Nothing else includes a gathering of so many people that you can feel these kinds of things.
Sam says that these things are oppressive and unrepresentative, and we think this is blatantly untrue, right?
Like we think that insofar as they gather from large groups of individuals, insofar as they advertise to the entire queer community, even if some of them are exclusionary, we'd say that those are the bad ones and clearly not the majority.
And, if anything, we think that it often represents those who are most oppressed, individuals who are expected to stay in closets due to their preferences, due to the way that they present themselves to society being unpalatable.
So we think that a lot of the time, like, he's just talking about a minority of situations, and the majority of those are incredibly representative and often represent those who are most subdued in everyday life, IE, through like having to work a job where they can be presentable or having family that might not accept them.
He's also sam is also afraid of targeting.
He says that this creates large targets that can be like bashed on but, like, this is true in everyday life, right?
Like, this is an argument for every queer person, every jew, every person of color, never to gather in a public space because maybe a racist is going to hit them, like maybe there's going to be a targeted attack.
But you can't spend infinity in fear and moreover, we'd say say that spending that time in fear is a signal that what they are doing is working.
It says, " yes, your actions do impact me and impact my behavior, so it prevents me from like being able to live my life. "
We think that, as such, what happens at pride parades is that being open at them is a sign of rebellion and doesn't put you in any more danger than you would be in your everyday life either way.
We also think that a lot of the people there are adults and can consent into this.
Our second area of clash is about global signaling, because I think it's really important when youth, who are maybe struggling with their identity and don't know whether or not to come out, are able to look at the computer, like look at the television, and see that there are so many people out there who are sharing in this identity and are willing to march together.
Because oftentimes, one of the biggest blocks to you being able to live your identity is being afraid that you are the only one.
So we think that what pride parades do is that they show that you aren't alone, that you don't have to be afraid, and that there is a supportive community out there, even if sometimes corporations use it.
It's just outweighed by the fact that people do too.
Proud to oppose.