We should adopt the metric system.
Two two main arguments: first on streamlining the education system.
In the status quo people have to learn the metric system later in their education either way because the majority of higher level science and mathematics is done in the metric system not in the american system.
This can be really confusing for students who spend so much time and effort memorizing and working with the american system only to find out that the system is completely irrelevant to them and they have to learn and use an entirely different system in the future anyway.
We also just think it's more efficient to start off by teaching the right material rather than having to back-pedal later.
We think that the the original system in our current education system becomes useless information and a waste of student time to learn it in the first place and we think that you should have more respect for american children and their time than to force them through this.
It's really stupid that we don't do this the status quo and is the result of a stupid appeal to to tradition.
The idea that because we've been doing it for so long and this is the system that our grandparents grew up with this is why we should maintain it.
This is literal nonsense and not a reason to not to make positive changes into the future and even without this, the metric system is just a better system.
It is much simpler.
It pretty much just goes up by hundreds with each like increment and interval of measurement whereas for the american system you have really stupid conversions like two point five centimeters in an inch and twelve inches per foot and you know how many foots feet are in a yard?
Three for some unknown reason.
These are all individual conversions that people have to learn as compared to the metric system where you can just remember that you have base hundred in everything and then go up by a hundred for each next one.
And the best part about this is that the metric system will apply both to measures of distance, as well as to measures of volume, as well as to measures of density, and anything else because you can just use the same general language and the same words to describe each of these intervals.
It's also easier to memorize and it's especially better for children who struggle with memorizing the random conversions of the american system a lot more than the smooth and easy intervals of the metric system.
Then it's easier to use.
Mathematically the conversion is easy dividing by base hundred rather than having to do weird conversions between two point five centimeters per inch and twelve inches per foot and also just streamlines your educational materials as well because you use the same beginning of the word depending on what kind of units we're talking about.
So everything becomes pico whether it is meters or milliliters.
Our second argument is about globalizing measurement system.
There's a problem in the status quo were literally every other country is using the metric system while the united states holds onto a nonsense system of measurements.
It makes it really hard for children to adjust if they do any work with people from other countries and it makes it harder to start international collaboration in education earlier.
You can't teach children the same higher level concept as early as other nations can because you just finished teaching them the wrong system of measurement for all of those higher level concepts.
We want to put american kids on a level playing field with those who aren't.
Like at the end of the day, we've seen that american rankings in education have been consistently dropping for the last few years and a lot of this has to do with the way that we approach education when we prioritize these kinds of useless systems above maintaining good communication and good globalization of these kinds of educational materials.
The continual use of the american measuring system is just showing how stupid and how old and outdated american education systems as a whole are.
The idea that we are willing to compromise our efficiency and compromise our children's education just to hold on to some old and arbitrary system of measurement.
Proud to propose.