The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
These subsidies could take any form: it could be through tax breaks for corporations that are like producing embryonic stem cell research, grant money given directly to groups that promise to pursue embryonic stem cell research, basically any like anything like that, or like even offers of government contracts with companies that are doing embryonic stem cell research.
With that, two main areas of clash: the first on the enormous benefits that embryonic stem cells provide.
Most of the conditions that we currently struggle with can be treated using embryonic stem cells and the kind of cures that they predict.
So, currently, the number one killer in the united states is heart disease, a treatment a a condition that we know can be treated with embryonic stem cells but isn't currently accessible, because of the ethical dilemma surrounding them and the unwillingness of private corporations to engage in it for fear of public reprisal.
So, we think that once you are giving money to these corporations and saying that we are governmentally sanctioning this kind of research, you can actually access those long-term cures, because you decrease the stigma around the research in the first place.
More than this, we think it's important to point out that stem cell treatments are much more long term and cheaper than treatments that we currently use, because a lot of the conditions that we're talking about are chronic pain conditions or currently considered incurable.
So what you have is essentially people going in and spending money on treatment after treatment for diabetes, for heart disease, for arthritis, any of these kinds of things, and big pharma corporations benefiting off of it at the expense of the individual.
But on our side of the house, you're going to be able to spend this money at the beginning to research what these treatments look like, but then they are permanent treatments that get rid of the condition for the long term.
What this means is people who were previously weighed down by chronic pain or chronic conditions and die earlier deaths because you can never actually cure their condition can now have a permanent cure that allows them to be long-term more productive, and also allows them to take that money they were spending on monthly or weekly prescriptions and spend that on other goods that benefit the economy.
More than this, we think that some conditions that are that are that are like currently rising with regards to disease rates, this can be cured much more quickly, and this is the fastest way in which to achieve that cure, because what's going on right now is that because you're having such rising rates of these conditions, it's too much and like drives up the price of medication for these families because there are so many people within the united states who suffer from it.
So we think that once you are able to make a make a cure that can be more permanent, you will actually be able to deal with the rising numbers of people who have these conditions.
We also think that it's good for the economy because it increases the general productivity of people and diverts that spending power from medications to other products.
Our second area of clash has to do with ethics, because we think it's important to address the ethical dilemmas that people have with embryonic stem cells.
A lot of people are worried about the ethical implications of using what what essentially are the pre-stages of like someone becoming a baby.
We think this is silly because it's unclear who's rights you are actually protecting here.
This child does not exist yet and will never exist if not for you trying to prevent people from using the embryo.
We think that none of the standards are actually met.
At the point that this embryo doesn't feel pain, doesn't have a conception of the future, doesn't have any of the associated emotions with understanding that it is an individual being and being upset that it's life is ended, we don't think there is anything that these activists are protecting, because they're protecting something that doesn't even understand it's being protected, but moreover, wouldn't care if you didn't protect it.
So, say a dog might not understand you're protecting it but if it gets killed, it is probably not looking forward to that, given that it enjoys existing.
The difference here is that this thing never enjoyed existing.
But more than this, we think that the people that you're going to be able to protect in the future are much more important, not only because they are already alive, but because they are suffering much more.
For these reasons, proud to propose.