We shouldn't subsidize open access journals.
To win this round government has to prove that open access journals are a common good such that it was worth spending public money on them.
Government probably said this is the case because these journals support research and people having access to information but this doesn't mean that these journals are actually useful to the majority of people in the general public.
Most people don't care about specific studies or long articles and more broad news networks like the new york times and forbes are going to write in more accessible language to cover the highlights of these studies and papers anyway.
The only people that open access journals serve are those who are in like kind of within these niche academic communities who actually need this for their job.
We think that it is fair to expect these groups of people to be able to figure out their own journal access.
At the point that these kinds of subsidizations cost millions of dollars, because these journals are generally expensive, we don't think this is the best use of government money.
Which brings us to our first independent point on why it is not worth the trade-off.
It is important to remember that a large portion of journals are going to be open access either way just because they are already available in the status quo.
This might be because they are publicly funded and have like agreements on when they become publicly available or for any number of reasons and what this means is the real question of the round is whether it is worth it to subsidize open access for those journals that can't already be found for free somewhere.
We think this is probably not the case because these journals tend to be more niche or expensive that no one really needs besides the people in those fields but also recognize that subsidization always trades off with other goods that can be subsidized.
Moreover, the government needs to make sure that it subsidizes things that serve the public good since it's the public that pays taxes that support subsidization in the first place.
This means that if we show that open access doesn't serve the public good or there are other things that serve the public good better, those are the things that need to be subsidized instead and this particular subsidization isn't worth it.
That's easy because we already showed the first half and literally anything is better for the subsidization at the point that we can put money into food or housing or things that actually impact people on a base level of quality of life rather than only at the higher echelons of education and higher order needs.
This is especially true because any subsidization of open access goes directly into the pockets of the corporations that own the journal which means the government can't effectively control the money or make sure that they're being charged a fair amount or any number of other things that are more controllable when it is a governmental office.
Our second argument is about the way in which we can encourage open access in other ways.
Most journals that receive public funding or publish research that was publicly funded already have rules about having to be available to the public at least after some time.
Most people can also get access through institutions if they are students or workers.
These are the people who need it most anywhere.
There are also legal projects like less legal projects like sci-hub that make sure to make a lot of stuff available as well.
We just don't think that the government needs to waste money on this at the point that we've mostly comfort our bases either way especially for the individuals that need them to be covered.
Proud to oppose.