We shouldn't protect internet privacy.
Government probably talked about free speech and people deserving internet privacy.
The problem is that freedom of speech doesn't cover protecting the source of the speech.
When we're talking about internet privacy we recognize that whether it is protected or not people will be able to use their freedom of speech.
The question is whether they will be able to use their freedom of speech without having others know who they are.
In the status quo freedom of speech doesn't apply to protecting people's privacy.
Even though I have the right to say whatever I want I do not have the right to stay anonymous while doing so.
This is why we don't punish individuals who find out the identity of anonymous like newspaper writers or anonymous callers.
Moreover, this is why in the past there weren't actually any avenues to make sure that individuals were anonymous and nobody was making any fuss about it because there weren't things like the internet.
We're literally entering a realm in which we have no experience as to how to legislate it in terms of privacy but we know for a fact that previously we did not allow such protections.
Two main arguments: first, on or three main arguments: first, on why there is no right to privacy.
People have the ability to control what they post on the internet.
It is unclear why there has to be special protections on privacy when people know that everything can be traced back to them.
There is a very important difference between things like the internet and things like our medical records where our medical records are basically uncontrollable by ourselves rather are just productions of our bodies and our doctors.
This is in opposition to things like the internet where whatever I put on the internet has to be a product of my free will and my desire to put it out there and we think at the point that this is something that can be controlled, we don't think that people deserve protections from it because they have the ability to remain protected personally simply by not putting it out there in the first place and we think the other thing here is that it's not if if we're lying to people, right?
Like they know that internet protections for privacy might not exist so they can act in accordance to their knowledge of that law.
Maybe we would be upset if say we were telling people they had privacy and then not actually following through but insofar as it is just about making sure that there is transparency, we don't think this is a real problem.
As long as people know what the risks are, it should be up to them to make sure they are protected.
Our second argument about is about security because this is also a debate in which we have to weigh between the rights of different groups of people.
Maintaining privacy necessarily means it is harder when things go wrong for authorities to trace things back and this is especially important in situations of violence or crime or organized illegal activity when we're talking about things like large drug rings or child pornography and we think that the right of the victims in this situation is always going to be more important than the individuals who are than individuals on not having privacy because we think that the fact that we can prevent such large suffering compared to the fact that most people won't actually get harmed by the lack of privacy means that there's just a very clear reason why we should be valuing those people's rights.
Government probably talked about how people can get into dangerous situations and anyone can identify them when privacy is not protected but this just seems like a reason for people to be more careful about what they're putting on the internet but also isn't something that we escape even when we do put all of the protections in place, right?
Like hackers who are skilled and adept at getting into people's information are going to exist on both sides of the house.
So we think it is a lot more important that we protect individuals from that we protect individuals from each other rather than from like themselves.
Our third argument is about accountability.
We just think that our system allows us to hold people accountable for what they say which means that they're less likely to say things that are actively harmful or illegal and that's probably just good in terms of making the internet a safer place.
Proud to oppose.