Don't limit the right to self-defense.
Look, I think the point is that we are not talking about groups like police or anyone like that.
These are people who should have limitations in self-defense because there's a reasonable expectation for them to be trained enough that they're better at evaluating risk in being in these situations.
We think that the average person should have a more expanded right to self-defense exactly because these are people who aren't trained to recognize when the risk is low versus high but, moreover, because for this type of person, those couple seconds of waiting can literally mean the difference between life and death or being significantly more abused than you would have been in the situation otherwise.
And at the point that this is true, we're always going to value that innocent individual's rights more than the person who is doing the propagation of the crime.
Danny talks for a little bit about how the justice system allows us to have proportional punishments for the level of crimes but he forgets that, at the end of the day, if it is a matter of one person being hurt and the other person being the one who does the hurting, even if it means that that individual who's perpetrating the harm might get disproportionately harmed in retaliation, we think it is worth the fact that it then prevents more harm coming to the one who is innocent.
We would rather have preemptive action that protects an innocent party more than having maybe more proportional and fair ex post facto action once the person has already been harmed.
Two main arguments, first on letting individuals protect themselves and maximizing safety.
Danny talks about how the average person is bad at evaluating their situation, and we don't think that people should have to be better at evaluating real life danger, because all of the situation in which those evaluations have to occur tend to be very high risk, and inaction could mean the difference between life and death.
So we think that saying, " hey, it is reasonable for us to expect the average person to pause for a moment to consider their option, " just isn't reasonable for someone who has never had police training versus someone who has.
Danny says that the enforcement will be racist and maybe this is true, but we think that it is true in the status quo that people are likely to get away on self-defense claims in situations where the perpetrator is black way more often than when they're white, but we want to note that these kind of policies also work in the other direction, right?
Like we think that people of color have a lot easier time defending themselves and like arguing in court when self-defense laws are more loose, because it is harder for that like biased judge or jury to argue with the fact that this was technically something they were allowed to do compared to when, say, when self-defense laws are much more strict, where you can just say: hey, the laws are really strict right now, like we're opening it up to interpretation, and we've interpreted you as being in the wrong.
We think that we eliminate that gray area.
At the point that this allows people of color to use self-defense as well, we think it's valuable to have around.
Danny says you might injure yourself or others.
Look, I just think that he continually asserts that people can't defend themselves, but this isn't true, right?
Like, sure, maybe not everybody knows how to use a gun, but people who don't know how to use a gun won't have that kind of weapon on them, right?
Like, presumably, if I am assaulted, I might have like some pepper spray on me or a knife, but whatever it is that I have, it'll be something I am trained in using, because I'm comfortable enough to have it on me in the first place.
So, we can teach people to try every other alternative, but there shouldn't be a moment where people are punished later for defending themselves early on, which is the system that occurs under government government's side.
Our second argument is about deterring criminal action.
If criminals know the person is likely to fight back, they're less likely to commit the crimes in the first place.
Criminals often take advantage of people they think will be easier to take advantage of.
And if those people are taught to be self defensive or they have some kind of pepper spray or knife on them, that means there'll be more raised awareness about this in general, and criminals will strike class often.
This is especially important because people often choose whether or not to carry things like pepper spray on them depending on current self-defense laws, because they don't want to get in trouble for using it, so they'll leave it at home if the area's strict.
Danny basically says then that people shouldn't fight back because they they aren't in court, but I told you why this was problematic at the top of my speech, just cross apply the response now.
Proud to oppose.