Don't end mandatory retirement.
First, to make it very clear, our side of the house isn't against things like raising the retirement age to mitigate a lot of danny's harms.
Like we think that if there are people who are still willing to work by the time that they are sixty five, the answer to this should be raising the retirement age to something like seventy so that people aren't forced into retirement at an early age or doing something like like a difference between the optional retirement age versus a mandatory retirement age that might come later.
Like we think the problem here is that danny just doesn't address what happens when this is a majority positive policy.
The fact that we can legislate around the minority situations where maybe this is implemented poorly or maybe people are really truly outliers, this kind of policy means that we should still have a mandatory retirement age.
But also, we think there are a lot of sectors that usually take individuals who are retired.
Like if you're someone who truly just doesn't want to not work, like you're so bored when you're retired, or it's like really bad for your mental health, you can be something like a librarian, or a security guard, or work as hospital greeting stuff.
Like these are often jobs that are specifically set aside for individuals who are past the retirement age, and we don't think that the point of the mandatory retirement age is to block people out from working entirely, rather it's to shift them to at least less intensive sectors so that you can have a lot of the positive impacts we're going to talk about later on.
Two main arguments: first, on making sure that youth have jobs.
Sure, it sucks that sometimes people are forced into retirement before they are ready, but this reflects the weighing of a more important need of society.
Young people are more central to the functioning of society and societal economy and those larger economic systems than older people, first, because there are a lot more economic safety nets in place for those who are older.
Things like social security and medicare are perfect example of things that older people will have access to when forced into retirement, but young people struggle for a struggling for a job simply don't.
So what this means is that the harms on someone who is older who is out of a job will always be less than the harms on someone who's younger and struggling to find a job and, reflexively, the harms to the economy are different.
Because if I am an older person forced into retirement, sure, maybe it's hard to live on my social security payment, but it's still very likely that I will be able to do things like afford basic housing and basic needs or, at least, afford the majority of them such that I can find other things to fill in what's left over.
But if I am younger and I don't have those social safety nets, then I will simply not be able to afford anything.
I will have to do things like rely on welfare, which weakens the system in other spaces.
Maybe I'll have to move back in with my parents.
And these are things that are, on net, a lot worse for the economy than simply someone who's older having slightly less money.
Moreover, a lot of older people have younger family members who can sustain them in a way that younger individuals don't have, if they struggle.
We live in a time where the job market generally is pretty slim and we need to prioritize making sure that the younger population is getting jobs.
And when you have old people who are significantly past the optional retirement age keeping those jobs, you prevent them from being available or competed for.
This is especially since young people keep the economy sphere going in other ways.
They're the ones who continue to contribute to social security and have more years to do that.
We rely on them to have the next generation of children, which happens more safely if they have a job.
Our second argument is about keeping systems efficient.
There's a point where any old person, even the one in the best mental and physical shape that danny wants to talk about, is going to be worse at their job than a younger one.
And this might have nothing to do with them and everything to do with the fact that technology is changing, rules are changing, and the language that you use for these kinds of things is changing.
And although someone older might be able to keep up with it reasonably, it will be objectively less efficient than someone younger.
We need to give companies a way to cycle into that more efficient state.
Without mandatory retirement, it can be really hard to get rid of older people, even when they aren't even when they are underperforming.
The problem here is that they can do things like sue you for being discriminatory against their age, but also because they're often socially and economically entrenched within that job so it's harder to get rid of them.
Proud to oppose.