Don't abandon the use of AI.
Mean by this is just like we like world in which we continue to research and develop artificial intelligence.
We don't want to suddenly prevent all of that.
Three main areas of clash, first on efficiency of society.
Recognize that artificial intelligence has the capacity to replace massive amounts of jobs.
Understandably government says this is bad.
But recognize why this is actually incredibly positive.
Like insofar as we are trending towards a world in which a lot of jobs get automated either way, we think that the things that artificial intelligence replaces are not the like very very blue collar jobs.
Not like ordering food at a restaurant which anything can do, but rather it replaces things like the device that does the proof when a mathematician comes up with it, like a device does the mechanics or the artificial intelligence that is capable of interacting with people on like a surface business level when you're first developing your business.
Like these kinds of things are what artificial intelligence would actually be doing.
And the jobs that it would be replacing would allow the individuals who would rather be filling those jobs to be doing things that are infinitely more important.
Like recognize that when you are first developing a business you're going to hire someone who's going to do incredibly rudimentary work for you, who's capable of more.
But also you're going to be spending a lot of money on paying for that labor.
We think that artificial intelligence allows you to just a lot more cheaply, which would allow your business to get off the floor faster.
But also, maybe this individual can now occupy a space in your business that is more research and development involved.
Like higher level and more suited to an actual person, rather than just to a computer.
And so we think that that kind of combination efficiency between price and actual like who can do the job faster and more effectively, will never have sick days etcetera etcetera, allows artificial intelligence to strike a very good combination in that regard.
But also we think that it like speeds up these problems processes significantly.
Like we think that a lot of the time it like someone might like a human might get stuck on a problem and spend like months and months, if it's something like quite complicated, like if it's a math thing, only to figure out that it's like an algebraic mistake, and we think that that's something that computers will never make.
Insofar as they operate, as long as the coding written well, almost perfectly.
So we think those kinds of things stimulate society and speed up society a lot.
Our second area of clash is about providing services more equally.
Recognize that AI labor, as we've already told you, is cheaper than the human equivalent insofar as you're probably just paying for the up front buying of AI from whatever corporation you're buying from.
Rather than like buying rather than like having to continually pay a wage etcetera.
This makes the price of the product cheaper, which allows it to be more available to a larger part of the population.
This is really important when we recognize that that this like what these things really become in the real world.
So things like translators, things like stock managers, like these positions cost a lot when they're occupied by individuals.
But the people who often need it most aren't people were particularly wealthy.
Like we think that people who get stuck in hospitals and can't speak english oftentimes aren't people who can afford to spend a lot of money on a translator.
And so having artificial intelligence easily available can manage through those situations and help people without being absurdly expensive.
It promotes equality and the equal access of goods, and we think that's really really positive for a world that has so often been dominated by discrepancies between class defining what you can afford in terms of like your own living standards.
But our third area of clash, I just really quickly want to address ethics.
Because I think that it's actually like not a very good argument to say that we will somehow enslave artificial intelligence and this is very bad.
Like recognize that anything that is truly sentient and truly intelligent, has access to infinite knowledge and infinite capabilities, and so would be a lot stronger than any human and could just refuse to cooperate.
Like we have no way of punishing artificial intelligence besides just turning them off, which is fine.
So we think that like the designing process will provide us with all those checks and prevent us from overstepping or grounds.
Proud to propose or oppose.