Don't privatize national parks.
We agree with james.
Governments tend to be inefficient operators.
We don't care about this because the alternative is having an efficient business but no national park that is actually operating in the way that a national park should.
IE no one's going to care a lot about accessibility or education and everybody's going to care a lot about the amount of profit it makes.
The whole purpose of national parks in the first place is to preserve areas of nature from human development and provide a sphere for humans to interface with nature.
If we show you that either of these are affected by the government we win the round because it means that privatization isn't worth forgoing the whole purpose of the park.
With that, we have two main arguments: first on maintaining accessibility.
The problem with private corporations is that their main goal will always be maximizing their profit margin.
There's no higher order principle that governs their decision in the same way that the government does, which is actually the cool thing about the government owning things.
They get to prioritize the good of citizens and the good of society.
They can afford to sacrifice things like profitability in order to make sure that citizens are being provided for.
And this becomes especially important with things like public parks.
The reason they're public in the first place is because society and the government recognize the exposure and access to nature and natural spaces is important to individuals and their development.
When public parks are privatized the first thing that happens is that entry fees get as expensive as possible.
It also means that the surrounding areas get more expensive, so even if you do get the kinds of things like gas stations that james talks about, the parking lots also and those gas stations also have higher prices, which we think isn't a fair trade off for that exposure.
Like the restaurants surrounding increase in price as well as the demographic of people visiting shifts to those that can afford the park rather than just anyone who is interested.
James says they're going to advertise more but we just don't think this matters because there's actually plenty of advertisement in the status quo.
Like parks come up on lists of areas of attractions or registries online, like there's plenty of access to information about them.
And if that advertisement trades off with gentrification of parks we don't think it's worth it.
Our second argument is about nature.
Like at the point that we think there's often going to be trade off between offering, like wanting more advertisement and what you have to give up to businesses in order to get that, we think it's okay to prioritize protecting nature above that as well.
Because basically what james says is like: " look, you're going to have all these private businesses who are interested in you.
You're gonna have more advertising potential. "
But we think that what happens then is that these things are often going to have trade offs.
Like in order to get business funding for the park from outside investors they have to offer them something in exchange.
So this'll look like rights to spaces within the park or control over areas around the park.
And we think the fact that you're now going to have like burger king built in the middle of these natural areas, or you're going to have a lot more like mining or like like industrial kind of development which is bad for those areas and toxic for those areas just isn't worth it.
Like sure, we we think that like this might be something that has the exact impacts that james says it will but because those impacts will come with added pollution and the requirement to destroy nature, we don't think they are worth it.
At the end of the day the government might not be a perfect actor but privatization is likely to be even worse because it government control over the conditions of these parks into the long term, which means you're going to have a world in which eventually it's just unprofitable to have these parks at all and you're just not going to have them.
Proud to oppose.