Don't further exploit solar energy.
I think right off the bat, I don't think that our side of the house is advocating for the continued use of oil and gas as our primary source of energy.
Rather what we are saying is that there are other forms of greener energy that we would rather exploit and solar panels.
IE water, geothermal energy, nuclear power, wind energy, all of this we think is preferable.
Two main areas of clash, first on the trade off.
Recognize that there is always a trade off in political capital and money when you're switching a society that is dominated by one energy source to another.
Recognize that oil and gas is a stupid system and there are tons of better alternatives, and the vast majority of individuals recognize this.
The only reason that it is still around is because they have a first mover advantage.
They've been around for so long that they've been able to amass capital political lobbyists and so forth that allows them to maintain power into the future.
This is despite the fact that it is vastly known that they're not an economically or environmentally friendly option.
They're able to bludgeon through these these discussions just because they have enough money to do so.
Usurping that is incredibly difficult and you need to make sure that you do it right, otherwise you risk replacing one tyrant with another.
If you waste this one solar energy you won't be able to effectively promote other forms of good energy, simply because it you've already wasted all of that political capital on this that it's going to be difficult to rewind and make people switch again.
Solar energy is fine but it's not the best.
We think that there are a lot of reasons as to why solar energy cannot provide the same amount of power or cannot provide the same amount of good that other forms can.
If only because it is something that is often has to be like very region specific.
IE portions of different countries don't get very much sunlight.
On a cloudy day you're not getting very much sunlight.
This is an unreliable form of energy and we think insofar as the way, like our energy consumption consumption essentially rules our lives.
When I click a light switch I need it to turn on because I need to do something in that room.
Because we no longer live in an era in which we go to sleep with the sun and rise with the sun because we need their hours.
We need to recognize the necessity of having a stable form of energy.
We also think that solar panels tend to be more expensive and less effective than the majority of other energy sources.
They often are very short range type of deals.
IE they are very effective for small locations but it's really hard to run a city off of them.
In a way that it is not difficult to run a city off of a single large dam, because that is energy that we can more efficiently transport to in like compartmentalized sizes to individual homes.
Our second area of clash is about not placing the onus on the consumer.
Recognize that solar panels tend to be individual consumer purchases for individual houses.
This is especially true for people outside of cities where even though power plants for other forms of energy would be able to reach them, solar panels that are aggregated in one specific area have a little bit more difficulty, and often there's much more likelihood of a shortage.
We think that that becomes really easy for corporations and government to push this on the consumer.
And there's a massive incentive to do this because it would save them money and it would make it a lot easier for the oil lobbyists to say: " well look, that's more expensive because you have to buy and upkeep it yourself, so we can do all that upkeep and all of that payment for you, as long as you just pay for the service. "
So we think this is quite problematic because not only does it make it easier for the oil hegemonies to stick around, but it's also the case that often people can't afford it.
Living clean shouldn't be a function of the amount of money that you have access to.
We think that if we're going to switch to a different form of energy or exploit a different form of energy, it should be one that is equitable.
One that city centers can set up and power massive amounts of area with.
We think that these alternatives exist.
We can do things like nuclear power plants and geothermal power plants.
But we have to use the money that we would be using to exploit solar panels on that.
Proud to oppose.