We should subsidize undergraduate education.
Government probably talked about how expensive college is and why it's not worth it to subsidize when you can subsidize other basic needs of the population.
The problem with this is that it is often a lack of education in the first place that leads to people having to rely on those other government services that gov wants to pour money into.
The question in this round is whether we want to subsidize an initial preventative instead of having to treat the symptoms of the disease with more of the money and more human lives in the future.
In the same way that we prefer to vaccinate our children now rather than to deal with the effects of polio or measles or other transmissible diseases later, we think it's a similar that if we pay for individual's colleges now we won't have to get to the point in the future where they need to rely on things like food stamps or housing subsidies or any number of other services that we provide to those who find themselves in hard times.
Sure, some things are expensive but a lot of them are also worth paying for and we think that this is one of them.
Two main arguments: first, on long term government interest.
And why this serves a long term government interest.
Individuals who don't have a college education are at risk for a ridiculous amount of future problems.
They're more likely to have health issues without insurance to help pay for them.
They're more likely to have problems with job security and maintaining a job that will feed them for a long period of time.
They're more likely to end up homeless and hungry and these things are literally just statistically proven.
Like if you were someone who has a college education sure you might end up in the same situation but it is millions of times less likely than someone who doesn't and all of these things that simultaneously destroy individual productivity and results in individuals relying on government systems are preventable when we actually send people to universities in the first place.
Recognize that this is also bad on two levels.
First, because those individuals will who have massive potential for productivity in supporting the economy or other people, now don't ever get to access the potential because they never get to college in the first place.
There are plenty of people who are incredibly intelligent, have the potential to do great things as well as individuals who are moderately intelligent but could still be doing more than they are when they don't access college but they don't ever go to college because either they cannot afford it or there are other barriers in place.
We think that when the government does things like subsidize it, then you're actually going to be investing in people earlier and they're not going to get stuck in these cycles of poverty that are hard to break out of when you're older rather they break out of them when they're younger and you have things like increased economic productivity that you're just not accessing in the status quo.
But the second layer of this is that the effects of the lack of an education end up having to be treated by government services.
So when we don't subsidize college education you're just going to see individuals who have to be supported by government funding in other ways through food stamps or homeless shelters or other kinds of programs that provide them with like medical aid and things like that.
So at the end of the day, this is really just a question of whether we have to fund all of these different government bureaucracies and government offices or whether we just realize that investing in people earlier means you don't have to spend more money later and don't have to deal with their children who end up in the same cycle because you broke out their parents earlier.
Our second argument is about increasing the quality of life.
College has become more of a mandatory thing over time.
It used to be that you'd be able to get a good job and live a generally well paid life with a high school diploma but it is no longer the case and like government needs to adjust to the needs of the population.
Now a college education is basically necessary in order to find a job that will pay enough to support yourself let alone a family and to maintain any sort of job security or upward mobility.
If we want people to be able to maintain themselves and potential families we have to start subsidizing undergraduate education.
Proud to oppose.