We should ban gratuities.
I think we're to talk specifically about the united states, and we're talking about gratuities we mean like any service based work that would expect tips.
This includes things like taxi drivers, waiters, busboys, etcetera.
Two main areas of clash, first on raising the minimum wage of service jobs.
There's a problem in the status quo where the minimum wage of service jobs like busboys, taxi drivers, waiters, etcetera is very low because employers expect them to get tips and use this as an excuse for the government.
They're like yes because these individuals are going to get tips we should be able to pay them less because they're going to get paid off anyway.
This is really problematic because it means that people who are often forced into these positions based on a lack of alternatives can't guarantee themselves a livable existence without working absurd hours or sometimes even with working absurd hours.
Like we think that the reason that a minimum wage exists in the first place is to avoid worker abuse and to prevent individuals from having to live absurd work life balances and we think that all of this continues to exist for people who live based on tips recognizing that tips are an incredibly unstable source of income like you never know when you're going to have a good night verses a bad night and that's like a fundamental devaluing of labor compared to other areas but also we just think this represents an abuse of the individuals who get stuck living under these systems in the first place.
Like the only way we get any kind of political will to change is by removing the justification that employers use to pay their employees less which is this idea that they're going to receive gratuities anyway.
Once you're able to show that it's necessary to pay them more then you're actually going to have the political will to pay them more and we think that is awful oftentimes actually preferable than working for tips because even if it might be less at certain points in time we think on aggregate it's more but also it's just significantly more stable so you have much less periods of time where you're like yes I don't know if I'm going to be able to eat this week because my tips haven't been as good.
We think preserving the autonomy of service workers is also really important here like because they rely on tips they're forced to be nice which we think the problem is that people will be nice either way on both sides of the house like if something's your job and you don't want to get fired then you're going to be polite because that's just part of the expectation.
They don't need the extra incentive of being afraid that they're not going to receive a gratuity.
We think that it's like the problem on their side of the house is that the circumstances in which like service workers are unlikely to be nice are circumstances in which they're actually being mistreated.
So like we see a lot of the time where female waitresses get harassed by male customers based on their gender and based on their attractiveness and they always have to just grin and bear it and like work through it because they know that they're not going to get tips if they don't.
So they're often like forced to use their sexuality, forced to like go along with this embarrassing treatment regardless of whether or not they want to and we just don't think that these individual should have to put up with this treatment because they're afraid of being financially punished.
And we think this is a right the gets afforded to almost everybody else right like they'll have HR departments and if a client is being especially problematic they have a form of recourse.
Our second area of clash is about maintaining affordability.
When gratuities are expected they automatically add to the expected cost of an outing.
This becomes cost prohibitive for people who can't afford that extra money or anxious about what that expectation might be and we think that given that these people still deserve to enjoy themselves we're unsure why this happens and we think the problem is that it's not as if that like that that cost is going to be internalized if you don't have tips right like we see plenty of other countries where gratuities aren't normalized such as mexico etcetera where they don't have to work for tips because we're arm but you also don't have like highly expensive food we think that rather what happens is that corporations lie to individuals and just use it as a way to increase their profit margins in the united states and that's something that we like eliminate because they still need to be able to sell to some people.
Proud to propose.