Don't abolish economic sanctions.
Three main areas of clash: first, on providing a middle ground.
Because recognize that before we before sanctions and before we accept sanctions as a legitimate choice for countries to take part in, there're two other options for actions against other countries: either you do nothing or you have different kinds of forms of actual physical violence, whether it be drone strikes in the status quo or boots on the ground, before we had access to drones.
Like, you didn't have a good in-between signaling mechanism except for yelling at other countries, and it was really easy for those countries to say, " well, you're never going to act on this.
You don't have the political will, " or like, " we don't care, " like basically playing down this line that countries are going to be too scared to use force.
And oftentimes, it was the correct line to play.
Because recognize that a lot of the time, countries don't want to compromise the lives of their own people because they want to fix the regimes somewhere else.
Or, oftentimes, they don't want to start international spats with countries that they might rely on for certain resources.
So, we think that like we think that what happens on their side of the house much more often is that either you never ever ever have a way to like tell countries they're fucking up.
We think the problem here is that this allows these regimes to continue to grow and prosper, and even if it's true that it hurts the people at the bottom when you sanction them, it's also true that it hurts the people at the bottom for way longer periods of times if you don't, right?
Like, if a regime is accepted and the international community doesn't do anything about it, there's nothing that stops it from growing, nothing that stops it from threatening larger and larger pieces of territory, in the cases of expansionist nations.
Like, all of drew's ethics argumentation forgets that the alternative instrumentalizes people much more and is infinitely more harmful insofar as the alternative is physical violence against individuals who didn't partake in the in the government or didn't agree with it, or it involves just allowing the people to stay in those situations.
Like, we'd say that it's infinitely more important to show the international world that it's unacceptable to treat women poorly or to kill gay people, etcetera, than it is to to make sure that like everyone in that country is more fed than in the status quo.
Because recognize that these already have massive human rights abuses.
They usual already have starvation, etcetera, etcetera.
So we'd rather prioritize that long-term world, and we'd rather prioritize other countries not picking up on these behaviors because they see no actions taking against them.
Like we think there are a lot of countries on the border, right?
Like, countries such as russia, countries such as such as turkey, like countries that have borderline human rights abuses but are afraid of going too far, even though they have relatively dictatorial-like regimes, because they don't want to expand massive amounts of backlash.
So we think what happens on their side of the house is those countries see that nothing happens when you take these actions, so they're infinitely more likely to do so.
So now you're saying it's not just this one country that everyone had a problem with initially, it's also five others who had similar ways of thinking.
Our second area of clash is about how it's good for international relations.
It allows countries to come together and disincentivize behavior, like show countries on the edge that it isn't acceptable, as I already said.
But it also allows us to provide support to allies, without military intervention.
A really good example is the iran-israel conflict, where US sanctions prevent border escalation in that it shows israel that we're willing to support them, doesn't put our troops at risk, doesn't put israel lives at risk, and puts iranian lives much less at risk than if israel just started bombing them, out of the blue, because they're scared that nobody is protecting them.
Our third area of clash is about efficacy.
The idea, yeah, like drew is right.
It does hurt people, and it does rely on the idea that people will uprise and cause change.
And a really good example is iran where, after rouhani was elected, people were so angry that he had them chained to the economic sanctions that they rioted until he got them shifted by being better.
Like, we think that this is a system that does work, and we think that the problem is that even if sometimes people become more extremists, there's never an incentive to stop being extreme on their side of the house, when there are no sanctions.
Proud to oppose.