Don't discourage the use of hormonal contraception.
Our side also thinks that the pill shouldn't be the default form of birth control for women who are first starting out, but this debate pushes people to the opposite extreme towards things like the IUD that are much more likely to cause complications for youth than a pill that you can stop at any moment and switch the hormonal dosages of if you are feeling off.
We think the problem is that james is not accomplishing what he says he wants to accomplish.
Sure he's going to take the pill off of the forefront of what gets offered by doctors, but we think that you if you if you replace it with something that could be an equally bad decision rather than objectively showing the pros and cons of every different mode of birth control, you're still becoming part of the problem and you're just changing the wording of that problem which doesn't make anything better.
Three main arguments, first on preventing bad reactions.
A lot of the alternatives that james lists to hormonal contraceptives are things like condoms and non-hormonal IUD's.
The problem is that a lot of people have really bad reactions both to the latex that condoms are made of but also to things like copper, zinc, and aluminum that a lot of IUD's are made up.
And the problem becomes that since these things are embedded deep into your body, it makes it really difficult to notice when the kind of internal reaction is happening that causes mass amounts of scarring due to the allergic reactions to things like copper.
And the problem is that even though we have the research that shows those allergic reactions are really likely, we don't have anything that does something about that research by changing the way it is made or by changing the way that women respond to it.
So it's important to note that telling a child or a teenager or someone who's just looking for birth control that this is a good option prevents them from being able to recognize that that kind of internal scarring can occur and their entire life can be altered.
Sure mood swings can occur when you use different forms of hormonal births birth control and sometimes you can have a really bad responses, but the fact that you can stop taking that almost immediately and feel better is something you uniquely lose when you move towards other methods that involve implantation and being non-hormonal.
So what happens on our side of the house is that sure, like maybe they start on the pill and it's a bad experience, but it's a lot easier to switch off of the pill than the kind going through the kind of invasive surgery you need in order to change out your IUD if it's not working for you anymore.
Our second argument is about allowing choice.
I think this argument about the side effects of hormonal birth control is unfair because it doesn't actually create a reason to not have hormonal birth control, it just creates a different standard for how we ought inform people of those side effects.
Like for every person who has a bad side effect you'll have thirty who really liked that form of birth control and for whom it works better than any other form of birth control.
So to take it off the platter entirely or to like very heavily say that it might be a bad idea would prevent the people who it would help from being able to access it in the first place which is bad.
But also birth control isn't a one size fits all situation.
You shouldn't discourage one for everyone because some people have side effects, rather you should just tell people hey if you are prone to these kinds of things maybe don't consider this as heavily.
This motion is about whether someone should discourage the birth control when you've like when a patient comes in to see a doctor so all our side has to defend is doctors and medical personnel being objective about the pros and the cons.
A lot of women trust their doctors to give them the information that they need.
If a doctor says that they think hormonal birth control is bad, a lot of women for whom that might have been a good idea will choose not to go for it just based on those words.
We prefer a world in which they choose from options.
But our third argument is about access.
Hormonal birth control is cheaper and less of a commitment and it is less daunting for young people who are just starting out.
It is easier to try on and then take off.
You need women to be comfortable in birth control in order for them to use it, and we definitely want women to use it in order to prevent unwanted pregnancy, teen pregnancy, and single motherhood.
Proud to oppose.