The motion for today's debate is that we should increase eco tourism.
What we mean by this is that we would probably provide governmental subsidies or we would provide some kind of encouragement on the part of the government for any individual country to increase eco tourism within its country.
But we also think that this debate is just like would it be a preferable world if eco tourism was increased.
Two main areas of clash: first on why it is like exceptionally good for developing countries.
Recognize that a lot of eco tourist locations are located in more developing countries.
Whether we're talking about the rain forests of brazil or the singaporean reefs or the multiple different beaches and like forests in india, we recognize that a lot of these areas are unique to developing countries, and at the end of the day sure, like the grand canyon is nice, but the US has comparatively very little to offer.
This means that those countries are going to be getting the majority of eco tourism and will be able to make a lot of money off of this.
This is really good because this money can now be used to reinvest in their country in ways that don't necessarily have to do with the ecology.
Like maybe now they are able to invest in things like social welfare or infrastructure that allows for sustainable like manufacturing development into long term.
And we think that all of that is like very good insofar as currently the only way in which they can make money to fund those kinds of things is by first creating those kinds of things.
Like it's really hard for countries like brazil to fund manufacturing without first having some kind of economic impetus coming from manufacturing.
This is a double bind that a lot of developing countries find themselves in, and we think that eco tourism provides a unique path, by which they can extricate themselves from the situation and have upfront capital that doesn't come from loans from other countries that are oftentimes quite predatory.
We also think that this does a really good job in terms of creating jobs for people.
We think that a massive problem in these areas is that they have very large unemployment statistics and the only way in which they can fix it is by developing the kind of industries they don't have the infrastructure for.
But eco tourism is relatively easy.
A lot of the times the hotels in these areas already exist or even creating like the impetus to make these hotels is the kind of infrastructure building that creates jobs in the first place.
So we actually think that you're providing a world in which you're giving people mobility through creating the jobs they can use to self sustained them into the future.
We also think that there are political impacts when people are feeling self empowered.
It's really difficult to be active in public policy or make like have any kind of political movement if you don't have a job first that will allow you to like be able to provide for your basic needs first.
Like people have priorities.
And so we think that when you have like a population that have an easier time finding a job, you're necessarily creating more empowered people that are going to be more active elsewhere.
But second I want to talk about saving the environment.
Because I think that this is really where the round comes down to.
If countries are going to make money off of it they won't tear it down.
We think a lot of the time right now these areas, that are really beautiful and shouldn't be torn down, get torn down because they're seen as economic opportunities.
Like you could put oil rigs over that reef.
Or you could over fish it and make money off of the fish.
You can create housing developments, etcetera.
Like there's a lot of gold in the brazilian rain forest that recently has made them consider tearing it down.
But we think that when they find out that they can make a profit over it, it changes the weighing calculus.
Because they can now afford to make the decision to keep it in place.
Like we don't think that countries like to tear down their beautiful fauna and like they're beautifully ecology.
Right?
Like we think that they have a lot of cultural value there and also understand that the ecosystem is worth something, but they often feel like they have to do so in order to fulfill their obligations to their own people and in order to continue like providing for their own people.
And so we think that it's like very important to change that calculus.
But we also think that letting people make connections is one of the most effective ways in which you influence individuals to save the ecosystems.
Right?
Like people shit on the environment because they don't care about it.
But when you make them care about it by causing them to form personal connections when they see it and experience it then you create the political will that can actually change things in the way that we treat the environment into the future.
For these reasons, proud to propose.