We should cancel the national flood insurance.
Three main arguments, first and why this is a poor use of government funds.
First I want to set a burden on side opposition.
Because they're going to have to show why flood insurance is uniquely more important than the insurance for earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fire or literally any other kind of natural disaster that exists.
And that that unicality needs to be shown because they need to explain why it is more important for the government to provide this when they are clearly not providing those other forms of insurance.
Recognize that the rates at which fire occurs, the rates at which earthquakes occurs and even the rates at which tornadoes occur are oftentimes infinitely higher or at least equal to the rates at which flood occurs.
So if we if the government is not providing coverage for those things we do not think the government ought be providing coverage for floods.
But more over than this, we think this burden is double sided because it is not just that it has to show why it is uniquely more important than those other sorts but it is also important to show why this is more important than the other things that we think the government should be providing instead, which we're going to list now.
Because there is a hierarchy of necessity when it comes to human needs.
And if the government is going to be spending millions of dollars on these kinds of things, we think the government needs to start at the bottom of that pyramid.
This way you can actually make sure that the most important things that are like central to human existence are addressed first since those are causing the worst kinds of harms and suffering.
Food, shelter, education are all more important and under covered significantly because they hurt people a lot more and the risk of them happening or not happening is much higher and much more constant than the once every now and then region dependent flood.
The millions of dollars spent on flood insurance should be used for those other needs because they can actually benefit the people who need things most rather than just being a like risk type of like insurance necessarily protects against risks so it doesn't even guarantee that you're going to have to end up using them, which we think is quite important.
Our second argument is about the government being a poor actor.
First we just think that private corporations do these kinds of things a lot better.
Competition forces the prices to get lower and the services to get better or for there to be a good balance of equilibrium for people who might not be able to afford the top notch service and are okay with compromising on that quality in order to pay less.
The government doesn't have that same kind of competitive threat so there's no incentive to provide good service service at the cheaper prices they want to offer.
So we think that it's just always going to be the case that either the government service is going to be super super cheap and super super super bad or it's going to be more expensive but still not amazing.
Because the government has no incentive to actually make it better.
And also because the government just worrying about other things.
Right?
Like we think there's a set amount of political expenditure and energy that the government has and they're expanding that on those topics that are more important like keeping the country out of war and maintaining political stability.
They're not focusing on making sure that their flood insurance is doing good things.
Which we think is actually quite important.
We also just think it means the government's gonna have super low pay outs because there's no incentive got high payouts so we don't have any reliable in that situation either.
And our third argument is about a lack of accountability.
It's really hard to sue the government if it doesn't deliver or if something goes wrong because literally all of the courts and all of bureaucracy is going to be on their side and they're going to have infinite money in order to fight you.
So sure bringing up lawsuits against big corporations might be hard but at least you're likely to have the government on your side to some extent or you can like rile support.
Like their power isn't as infinite as having to sue the government which we think is a lot harder for people to do.
Proud to propose.