We should increase government regulation.
We're going to limit this specifically to discussion about corporate regulation we think that currently in the status quo the government has a lot of environmental and economic regulations on large corporations that exceed a specific size we're fine with going along with the pre existing standards for what qualifies as a corporation but we would prefer for the government to continue and expand the current regulations on those entities.
Two main areas of clash, first government regulation as an obligation.
Recognize the government exists for a reason.
Large groups of people are willing to give up their rights to an entity so that it would do something and that something is to protect them and structure a society.
We think that people give up a lot of rights.
They allow limitations on their privacy, on their movement, and we think that they deserve to see a result from that insofar as these kinds of like trade offs are quite large.
Like I think that in a world in which I am capable of providing for myself better than the government I would definitely do that because without a government I would be able to do a lot more things that I would probably desire to do like borders wouldn't exist and I'd be able to acquire food possibly more easily but we see that like the reason that we are willing to do things like not live in anarchy is because we see the benefit to what governments can provide us with ie they can protect us from exploitation and we think that the government when the government doesn't regulate corporations they are denying the largest exploiter of of like the common man are the corporations that exist as powerful aggregates with large amounts of capital that do things like set very low wages, provide unsafe working conditions, and so forth.
We think that when the government doesn't regulate corporations, it isn't fulfilling its job or its obligation to the people it allows other actors to dominate people's lives which is bad because we think that generally the government ought be ensuring freedom for for its substituents.
Moreover we think the government needs to prioritize those least represented and most vulnerable because because these are individuals who tend not to be able to defend themselves they don't have alternatives for jobs when the corporations are going to pay them trash they don't have the political lobbying to keep corporations from dumping pollutants into their homes and we think that corporations are the biggest offenders of this which is why the government has to regulate them.
Our second area of clash is about government regulation as a pragmatic good.
When unregulated, corporations rather than people tend to take power.
This is because corporations exist as aggregations of the most powerful individuals in society, those who have the majority of the fiscal capital, those who have a lot of social sway like those who had good educations so on so forth.
These groups can create regional monopolies for jobs.
It's really easy for them to force cooperation from the general populace even when it's bad for the general populace because they do things like offer them jobs that can provide them with sustenance because they might create economic growth in a specific area we see a lot of cities in the united states and a lot of small towns that are dominated by one particular corporation because that just happened to be the corporation that placed itself there first and demanded all of their energy.
But we also see that this is really bad because these are also the areas that are polluted the most and when that corporation goes down these are the people who are suffering the most.
Powerful corporations are absurdly abusive.
They pollute in people's homes especially in poor areas, they create poor working conditions, low wages, they don't pay like whenever the government doesn't regulate them monetarily, they don't pay very high taxes, they try to maximize their profit margins and we think that it is very necessary for the government regulation to serve the pragmatic way to protect the people most likely to get taken advantage of by these entities.
We think that it prevents corporations from owning the government as well.
We see that in the status quo large lobbying powers prevent the government from being able to effectively regulate.
We think this was created by a lack of regulation in the first place.
Proud to propose.