The motion for today's debate is that we should cancel pride parades.
The model we're not saying that this is like a government thing, we think that the organizations themselves should choose to shut down the events that they're hosting and this would be like a preferable world.
Three main areas of clash.
First on why it puts a target in a much easier way than any other like everyday event.
So recognize that the LGBTQ community is already at most risk to be targeted for a hate crime.
We think that when you take those who are most marginalized and most likely to be attacked and place larger than normal quantities of them in a specific area at a specific time and label that as like a relatively peaceful area and a very like friendly and safe space, you're basically inviting someone who dislikes that group of people to come and put an end to this and make a really loud statement while doing so.
We already see that many pride parades have attacks that occur at them like in israel it's very common for pride parades to be the focus of stabbings we've seen in the united states that pride parades have been targeted and so we think that this opens them up to attack that the organization should have to protect these people from, especially since so many who go to pride parades are young, they're oftentimes less inhibited, they're coming in from an area of not understanding necessarily how bad things can get or what their risk is.
They just think they're going out to have fun and so that you end up with a false sense of security they think that they're in this safe space when in reality they're more dangerous they're like more in harm's way than they've ever been.
And so even if you think that the organizers don't necessarily have an obligation to those who attend their parades, we definitely think they have an obligation to those who are especially young or especially uninhibited at these parades.
But the second way in which there there is a target on pride parades is in terms of counter protests.
We think that you're really likely to end up with gatherings of conservatives who are going to show up and try and show you why you are wrong about your beliefs and this oftentimes leads to a lot more potential violence, there's more much more likely to be conflict and verbal conflict between groups and all of this can be avoided if your event does not occur.
Second area of clashe is why it's bad for public opinion because there are a lot of republican moderates who in theory are in favor of gay rights.
They consider themselves egalitarian and they're like they consider themselves very forward thinking for republicans.
However these people get really oppositional when they feel like that gayness is rubbed in their faces or when they feel like this is somehow being forced down their throats.
So at the point that moderates get incredibly turned-off by like flamboyant expressions of LGBTQ culture or any kind of like BDSM mention, we don't think that the parade is worth the lack of political solvency that that comes afterwards.
We think it's way more important to get good politics passed for LGBTQ individuals like marriage equality or getting better laws for LGBTQ youth or making it easier for LGBTQ youth who were who were affected by their parents or disowned by their parents to get emancipated things like that are infinitely more important than an evening of frolicking.
Our third area of clash is why this puts undue power in organizers hands because you're having a million person operation run buy a few like maybe five, ten people and those people get to do a lot of things that are like unique to their power over the event.
In the case of the recent pride we had I don't remember where but the recent one where they were able to ban jewish stars and call them zionist expressions we think that things like that occur only when you allow a few people in control of it.
But the problem is that it's not as if those few people have to take responsibility for their action, rather the entire group gets blamed for what a few people did.
We don't think that those people should have the ability to tarnish the name of a group of people as much as they do and so we think they should relinquish that power and cancel pride.
For these reasons, proud to propose.