Don't fight nationalism.
First, I want to clarify the definition of nationalism, because I think the definition that danny spends the entire round talking under isn't actually what nationalism is.
First, I think it's not about genuinely believing that your country is better than everyone else's.
Rather, it's about believing that it's the best for you and has unique benefits such that you think it is subjectively better than other countries.
So it's not about saying that like, " oh, in every single area, we beat everybody else. "
Rather, it's just about saying, " I'm proud that I am here.
I'm proud of what my nation has accomplished. "
We also disagree with the idea that nationalism is immoral, which is what danny spends a long time talking about.
He says that because you don't owe anyone allegiance, that must mean that nationalism is immoral.
But I think that even you can hear that there's a very, very meaningful warrant missing here.
It is unclear to me why the idea that you don't owe anyone allegiance automatically means that nationalism, which isn't about anyone owing allegiance but rather is just about creating allegiance, is immoral.
Two main arguments, first on creating pride in your country.
We think that nationalism motivates communal success rather than always focusing on the individual.
Because if what danny says is true and everybody is encouraged to be selfish and greedy and choose whatever is personally best for them, then it's actually very important to create a general understanding that individuals should want and take pride in the overall success of their nation.
This means that they will be motivated to work hard, but also motivated to help each other succeed.
These are things like pushing for better education, domestic businesses, less foreign ownership of the domestic economy, and all of these are associated with increased nationalism and have good impacts for the individual country.
It also promotes economic stability.
The economic market is vastly dominated by cultural and sociological factors.
Having nationalism and, therefore, pride in your nation means that people continue contributing to economic systems, even when other things might be shaky or scary.
Danny is worried that nationalism prevents criticism.
Maybe it's been weaponized that way previously but, in general, we think that nationalism could actually be used to better the nation.
Because people want to take pride in a nation that is taking the best actions, they can actually push the country towards being better because you want to be able to be proud of it.
You want a country that deserves your nationalism.
We think the example that danny uses is much more about fearmongering than nationalism.
The ideas of preserving ways of life isn't about nationalism, it's about the manipulation of individuals' fear that there might be immigrants coming in or something similar.
And that is incredibly different than the idea that individuals should have pride in the country, which doesn't actually touch on fearmongering at all.
People still criticize the state.
For example, we still saw criticisms of the vietnam war even during a very nationalistic time.
Our second argument is about creating cohesion in a nation.
Nationalism puts national identity before other forms of identity.
And this is what allows more seamless cultural and racial integration, because it allows people to say that even though this person might have a different religious or cultural background, they're, first and foremost, citizens of the same nation.
This lets people put aside their differences to accept each other as members of the same system, and this decreases a lot of things like homophobia, anti-semitism, islamophobia, et cetera, because it allows people to bond over shared nationalism rather than fixating on the differences of individuals.
Certainly, it's not a perfect system, but it definitely has an influence.
It's also better for immigrant integration since they can be accepted as new citizens, as long as they're willing to take on that nationalism.
And I think this is actually really important, because when you have an understanding that even though these people might have some differences, you are all holding onto a shared identity and a shared end goal, it means that you're much less likely to amplify the parts of people that you dislike or want to fight against.
And it makes the fearmongering that danny is so worried about much less likely and much less possible.
Proud to oppose.