We shouldn't increase the use of scholarships.
Two main arguments: first, that it undercuts the advocacy for free college education.
I'm sure that government talked all about how we should only care about providing more education for more people at a lower price, and we agree.
But we think that the use of scholarships to do so is always going to be not enough, IE they can only be given to a couple of people, and the amount will always depend on who the donor is, and it will never cover all education or, at least, not in the majority of situations.
We think that it create that when you increase scholarship, you create a false sense of solvency, because private interests can point to scholarships as a way of taking care of those who need it, so they can get away with not supporting policy change for free college.
It allows a stronger it allows stronger republican politicians to pretend we don't need higher education reform in the united states and makes it very difficult to amass enough political will to create long-term change.
I think that both sides are going to agree that a cheaper college education is important, so the debate is just about who is more likely to achieve the long-term, most optimal system when it comes to that.
And I think it is the case that college education is a basic right at the point that you can only access certain jobs and the majority of jobs, at this point, when you have a degree.
And at the point that the only way that you can often make enough money to survive is through a college education, and at the point that it's become such a basic expectation of the most people, it is absurd that the government is not paying for it similarly to the way that it does for private education.
Instead, what the government policy is doing is it forces dependence on private donors for scholarship money, and usually that money doesn't even help that much.
Many scholarships come in the forms of small amount of money so in order to make a difference, you have to apply to a very, very high amount before you can even say that it's changing your overall outcome.
Moreover, it prevents individuals from ever being able to choose universities based on the merit and not based on the amount of money they receive from donors.
Like the fact that you might get a lot more scholarship money from a public school than a private one, simply because of where the funding is coming from, means that you can never get people who are poor breaking into these more elite universities that propagate general cycles of wealth.
Our second argument is that it creates an unfair burden on students.
If you increase the amount of scholarships, you increase the expectations for students to obtain them.
It means that parents put more pressure on their high school students and this is really bad, because a lot of the time scholarships are sectioned off by GPA, extracurriculars, or need.
And if you don't fit into those boxes, getting a scholarship can be very difficult if not impossible, and students often place the blame on themselves if they don't get them, which is an unfair burden for the average person, because it's not your fault if you didn't those things, if you didn't fit those boxes.
Not everyone can be an amazing student or have really great extracurriculars, and it's not your fault if your parents don't fall into the correct income bracket for you to be able to obtain the scholarship.
It also just takes up massive amounts of time.
When you expect people to pay for college through scholarships, they have to spend time applying to those scholarships, and most scholarships that are attainable are for not much money.
So you end up having to apply to millions and millions of like a hundred dollars here, two hundred dollars there, to even make a dent in your tuition, and we just think that people have better things to do with their time.
Like at the end of the day, we would prefer that people spend their time actually learning rather than figuring out how to pay for their learning, which we think can only happen on our side of the house.
We think that the concept of scholarships is good, but the thing they accomplish politically is just a is a false sense of solvency that really harms the majority of individuals into the long term, even if they solve in the short term.
Proud to oppose.