Don't abandon feminism.
Drew spends a long time being like " we're not abandoning the fight for equality, we're just abandoning the organization of feminism, we're combining it with all of these other groups ".
But he forgets that all of the problematic portions of feminism can be reformed.
We think that changing the taglines from equality between men and women can be very easily shifted to a tagline about why we want equality between all genders.
It's not clear to us why we have to be grappled to the old trappings of first world first world white feminism, when we live in a world that is rapidly dynamic, in a world where progressive movements change over time.
Insofar as we are like already seeing a world in which feminism is recognizing that it has to have intersectionality, be not trends exclusionary, etcetera, we're unclear on why we can't keep living in that world.
Two main areas of clash, first on why drew requires us to abandon all of the progress.
Because recognize that individuals have attached a lot of like meaning, a lot of like a lot of political power, to the term an organization of feminism as a movement, right?
Like there are a lot of people who are old women who have like founded this at the beginning, who come from large amounts of money and continued to donate that money, it should go to organizations that fight for equality, because they see themselves as identifying with that movement and identifying with with that message.
So we think the problem on drew's side of the house is that you're losing a lot of donors when you cut ties with the title that a lot of people have identified with.
Even if it has created an equal amount of separation between other groups, even if it is extremely politicized, we think that that politicization can change, we can have things like campaigns about feminism not feminazi, etcetera, but it's really hard to tell people who have grown personally attached and who are incredibly offended that their movement is disappearing, that they should donate to this new one that no longer represents their interest.
We also think you lose massive amounts of political momentum, like restructuring movements distracts from accomplishing policy, from accomplishing discussions on what you ought encompass or not, like this is mass amounts of time and political capital wasted on something while you could be advancing the goals of your own movement.
We tell you there are a lot of things that the feminism is on the brink of accomplishing, things like reproductive rights that have been vastly acknowledged by the federal government and the fight has become regional and on local levels, things like providing menstrual products and like other such things, and we think that once you restructure into a different movement then you can no longer prioritize the same things, because the priorities have to become that of the entirety of the movement.
And we think the issue is that you actually feed into a lot of drew's problems, right?
He talks about how feminism isn't helping those who are most oppressed enough and how other movements can.
But the problem is that oftentimes those who are most oppressed tend to be women who are poor, people of color who are women, trans individuals, and all of these don't make up the majority of other kinds of movements either, so if anything when your movement has to represent a larger amount of people, it is even less likely to represent those who are worst off.
Our second area of clash is about the importance of having specific movements.
Because we think it would actually be a really bad world that drew has where you combine everything because of a shared goal, because even if you have a shared ultimate goal, these groups have really different belief in what the proper mechanisms are.
IE, not all feminists are communists and oftentimes they have really good reasons to not be because they think that the goal of communism, although noble, might be also really problematic, or lend itself to the same patriarchal power structures that exist in the status quo.
Moreover, we think that allies exist in the status quo, that if I'm someone who is a marxist or a maoist or whatever, I can recognize that feminism is something I also have to fight for, rather it's about what we choose to prioritize so that political power can be used most efficiently.
IE, the maoists can fight most concentratedly for the maoists, and the feminists can fight most concentratedly for the feminists, and now you can have an end result where both of these things are accomplished without having to do one before the other.
Proud to oppose.