We shouldn't further exploit genetic engineering.
Two main arguments: first, on why it is dangerous.
Government probably talked all about how genetic engineering has the potential for good, but we think that even if this is true, and we're not going to deny that this is true, we think that genetic engineering carries such a high risk and likelihood for harm that we don't think the positives are worth it.
At the end of the day, our current technologies and the exploration further of those technologies provides us with a practically limitless potential to solve a lot of the problems that genetic engineering wants to solve and, at least, for the treatment of any problems that it cannot solve relatively well.
Insofar as this is true, we don't think that risking those large harms are worth it in the first place.
For example, we think that new organisms that get created are likely to be ecologically problematic.
Recognize that, even now, when you take one species of organism and artificially transplant it somewhere else, we see that there are often massive amounts of harms that come out of that.
That organism can become a weed in that area, or a unnatural predator, or a parasite and could kill off a lot of the natural species.
And we think necessarily what happens when you create new organisms is that they will have a very similar impact but in a way that is completely unpredictable.
And moreover, the fact that like government might say we can be careful with these organisms, but we don't think that's like possible all the time, right?
Like security breaches happen, people carry spores on their clothing or will think that something was disposed of properly, and it wasn't, and this also translates to things like the engineering of viruses or bacteria that then get accidentally released and could have incredibly damaging consequences that we'll talk more about later.
Corporations will monetize engineering such that only the rich have access to the good stuff.
So things like medication and defect treatments are likely to be only available for people who can pay for them anyway, leaving people who can't without any support.
In the status quo, rich people with disabled children put money into public programs that end up overflowing benefits to everyone ; for example, special education in public schools.
But when they don't have to do that anymore because they can just pay for genetic engineering, you leave nothing behind for those who can't afford these things.
We also just think that genetic engineering is going to have tons of unknown side effects.
Like, recently, it was found out that things like crispr often causes offsite mutations that nobody was realizing were occurring.
The point is that we will never know how the technology impacts things.
Like we never understand it well enough to predict what will work without any harmful impacts.
It is especially dangerous for use on humans because of the way it can poison someone's entire life.
If you're a child who had something done to you without your knowledge or consent, you have to live with the consequences of that action for the rest of your life, and I think that's something that will always outweigh any of government's argumentation because of the fact that there are people who can be completely destroyed by this technology artificially, through human use.
Our second argument is about the internationally destructive power.
Genetic engineering can be used to purposefully develop biological weapons, things like the creation of bacteria and viruses that are resistant to medications and have really, really bad side effects or impacts on the human body, and then having that purposefully released during a war or some kind of conflict or terror attack.
This alone is a reason to not exploit genetic engineering anymore, since there are plenty of independently bad actors in the world that we can never properly regulate or oversee.
Literally, all it takes is one scientifically versed terror group or one rogue government like iran or north korea, and the whole world is at massive physical risk.
And given that this will literally compromise lives of every single person in existence, we don't think the benefit to a couple million people will ever outweigh that potential harm.
Proud to oppose.