The motion for today's debate is that we should fight nationalism.
What we mean by this is that we shouldn't be promoting nationalistic ideologies, we should be discouraging people from expressing nationalistic views just in general like we would prefer a world in which we didn't really have nationalism as it currently is.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on domestic harms, and I really want to talk about the way that it changes the way that we treat immigrants and especially how it makes it much worse because when you when your identity is wrapped up in the us versus them mentality it is incredibly unlikely that you're going to treat those who you perceive as them very well at all.
In fact, because because you are so defined by this concept of being one nationality and having to prove that you are better than another and oftentimes using stereotypes and other negative mechanisms to make sure that you are seen as better than the other, you actually end up in a situation where it is guaranteed that you're going to be treating citizens immigrants worse if you are nationalist.
I think a really good example of this exist in the status quo when we see the way the US is treating immigrants coming in either from middle eastern countries or from across the border from mexico.
Because we have such strong patriotic american feelings and we're willing to use rhetoric like stealing our jobs because we have such a possessive kind of way of viewing our country and viewing this land we refuse to cooperate or welcome those who happen to be less fortunate and happened to be born into a different categorization of country.
And so we actually think that this is like already we're seeing the negative impacts of being a nationalist nation as the united states.
We also think that you're much more likely to ascribe these negative stereotypes and see them as invaders if you are more nationalist because necessarily you are identifying people primarily by the nationality and by what country they're coming from and only secondarily maybe you're considering who they are as people or what their priorities are or whether they are starving or suffering and so because of that we actually think that you poison the way that people begin to think about immigrants from the get go.
We also think it's important to notice that domestically it's incredibly difficult to criticize the government if you have a strong nationalist party or a strong nationalist following because basically what that does is when you're the one person saying bad things about the government and everybody else feels very positively then you're seen as an anti-nationalist to do so and it there's much more likely to be backlash or criticism against you.
We also think that you're just less likely to think critically about the government if the environment in which you are raised is one that perpetuates that the nation is great recognize the nationals unnecessarily has to perpetuate the narrative that the nation that you're currently living in is doing well and is successful and is better than others which means that you're actually much less likely to be raised in an environment where you're thought to think critically in the first place.
Our second independent point is about international harm.
Recognize that inherent to the definition of nationalism is thinking that you are better than other countries.
It creates a superiority complex which makes it much more likely that you're going to declaim others and their ideology and that you're less likely to actually want to cooperate or work with other people.
We think this necessarily leads to more militaristic states because if the people who are within those states are more willing to take military action on behalf of the government and more likely to create black and white broad sweeping generalizations about whether a specific ideal ideology that is not of the country they come from is good or bad.
We think a really good example of this is when the united states would invade vietnam or any other countries that we invaded during our little anti-communism trope that we played for a bit and at this time what we saw is because of our strong nationalism, out positive feelings towards capitalism etcetera we were willing to actively take other people's lives and oppress them and throw agent orange on top of their heads in order to prove a point essentially.
We also think that nationalism hinders globalization.
There's necessarily an unwillingness to compromise when you feel like you are objectively correct.
It makes it really hard to run the global economy fairly because it makes it hard it makes hard lines between nations that stop nations from caring about each other and caring about citizens that aren't necessarily their own.
So we think that without nationalism it's just much more likely that the united states or another country would look out for the citizens of a different country.
For these reasons, proud to propose.