Don't increase drug testing.
What I mean by this is that there are currently levels of drug testing that occur, for quite a few positions it's very lax, such as like actual jobs that are outside of anything government owned, and sometimes it's really rigorous, like in the case of athletics, and we would just keep all those levels the same.
Two main areas of clash, first on why is there is, on why this just increases the already racist enforcement.
Although the test itself might be egalitarian in that you, in the results, it is not in the way that people will respond to it.
Recognize that increasing drug testing also increases the number of people that we are going to respond to and increases all of the already damaging effects that we see where we persecute people of color a lot more harshly than white people, or we persecute poor people a lot more harshly than richer people.
So like in so far as like the current levels exist and seem functional, we don't understand why we should be increasing it and accessing all of those harms a lot more.
Like we think the problem is that on their side of the house white people continue to get lower punishments, while black people and poor people continue to lose jobs and continue to get over punished for this.
We also think that like the current drug testing system really seems fine.
Like it's scaled based on how much that particular sector needs to be drug tested.
Like we see that athletics, where the outcome really depends on the individuals drug like drug level, is really rigorously tested because individuals are like very unhappy about are are like very vigilant for something that can really affect the outcome of this career.
Meanwhile, in other fields where drugs really don't affect performance, really don't matter, we that that drug testing is a lot less.
It just doesn't matter if a particular person who is partaking in a particular job is taking drugs in so far as they are fully functional at their job.
And it is unclear why we should be increasing drug testing and like punishing them even though they're being perfectly functional and doing their job.
Like we don't think that government does a good enough job of proving any kind of intrinsic value to following the law, especially in situations where we already have some like some kind of enforcement, we're unclear on why we have to increase it.
Our second area of clash is about why drugs aren't bad and we think that people actually have a right to take drugs if this were they so desire to do.
Recognize that fundamentally it seems like people shouldn't be prohibited from drugs at all.
There's nothing that is fundamentally bad about them.
Like a lot of people will make the argument that drugs are bad for yourself or others.
The problem with this is that a lot of the things that we do are bad as well.
Like we allow the use of cigarettes and the drinking of alcohol and gambling and parachuting and numerous other things that are bad for the individual but are also bad for the individual's family or anyone in that individual's vicinity insofar as it causes bad behavior.
But we still allow those things because we weigh the individual's right to self expression, right to self actualization, more than we weigh our like paternalistic power to make sure that they don't do bad things.
Right?
Like we see that virtual reality does really similar things to creating visuals the way that different hallucinogens do.
We think that drug drug bans are like vastly racist responses to isolationist eras and we think that we've outlived that and outlived their usefulness and we ought be worrying about the person's individual right a lot more.
But also, recognize that like this is a free and fair decision for themselves.
Like only you as a person know your own desires and know what you want, so we think that we're fine with someone doing their own way.
Even if we said that some drugs are especially bad, the problem is that we punish for we we punish them for use.
Like recognize that drugs and drug addiction is a disease and like targeted sales make certain people more likely to contract that disease than others.
And so it is that unjust that rather than treating them or doing something good we say: " no.
Go to jail.
Like go experience all of these punishments for something you didn't have full control over. "
Proud to op oppose.