We should increase student financial aid in the united states.
Our model for this is basically that we're referring to university education.
We think that public high schools that pretty much subsidize the majority of people's education costs exist in the status quo.
But the problem right now is that even public colleges can still be incredibly expensive for individuals who are doing things like taking advantage of in state tuition, and we think that's incredibly problematic.
Two arguments, first on education as a fundamental right.
Recognize that when in order to access all of the things that are explicitly stated within the constitution, such as our right to free speech, our right to petition and all of these things, you oftentimes need things like an education.
Even to do things like live and pursue the right to like happiness or whatever, these things require in modern time an education to be able to access them.
So it's not just about this is something that would be nice to have.
It's not just a like fun benefit that we would survive without.
It's literally that the poverty statistics for individuals that don't get a college education are awful by comparison to those that do.
That you have a much higher chance of not having the food that you need, being homeless, not dying of a preventable disease, all of these things are infinitely higher statistically for those who don't get a college education.
And a lot of the time cost is the main barrier that prevents that.
Because a lot of people are really terrified of doing things like taking out a large amount of loans and a lot of people don't even have the credit that allows them to do that without having a middle class family.
So the idea that this is just some lackadaisic treat that people give themselves, which I'm sure op will come up here and say, is nonsense.
Recognize that education is often a tool of the oppressor.
If you keep your victims stupid they can't out act out act out against you.
And because of that, it's not just about the facilitative right that it provides, it's also about why is this necessary to preserve democracy.
Because the people are never capable of protecting themselves if they're too busy working dead end jobs that they only work because they don't have an education to access something better.
Education mediates class differences.
Because the economic class that I'm born into is completely arbitrary and the main way to gain upward mobility is through an education that provides me with the job and networking opportunities that actually let me take myself out of the class I'm in.
And just the statistics on whether or not someone to escape their class without an education shows the majority of people stay in whatever class they're born in unless they're capable of going to college.
This is really important especially in countries like the united states where class disparity is growing.
In the status quo the arbitrary class I'm born into often dictates where I stay the rest of my life.
And we think that that's really problematic and something the government needs to account for because the amount of individuals who are going without basic human rights because they aren't accessing an education is massive.
But our second argument is about promoting positive social impacts.
First, more people go to school.
Like in so far as a lot of people are just currently discouraged by the cost, taking away that cost barrier and promoting it as the government is likely to get people going there getting there more.
This is really good because it means that more people are getting jobs and less for doing things like relying on government assistance, but also their children are growing up with more opportunity and it is more likely that those people aren't going to need to do things like rely on financial aid when they go to university.
So it breaks those kinds of bad cycles and it prevents the government from having to pay more in the long term by allowing individuals out.
It also decreases unemployment because in the status quo we have the trend of lower lower end labor decreasing because of things like automatization.
But the need for higher level educated labor is rising as we explore new like fields of AI, of medicine, of technology.
All of these things need people who have a degree.
So we think that you're going to have less unemployment and just a better economy in general when you're fulfilling the needs of that economy.
You get a more educated populace who makes better political decisions.
All of this is good.
Proud to propose.