We should ban foreign workers.
We think that what this means is that we wouldn't allow people who we wouldn't any longer give out work visas.
So in order to work in the united states, you either have to have a green card at minimum or have a citizenship.
Two main arguments, first on protecting US citizens.
Current economics state current the current economic state of the united states is one in which the job security of american citizens is uncertain.
A lot of people aren't getting a job even after getting a college degree and doing everything by the book.
Foreign workers take jobs from all levels, whether it's plowing fields or being in research and technology, which means there isn't a field that foreign workers can occupy that doesn't take from the careers of the average american citizen, so we have to prevent that trade off from occurring.
It is a common myth that the that foreign workers don't actually take jobs but rather just like provide competition or whatever or like americans didn't want those jobs in the first place.
We think maybe this is true for like the lower level labor level labor like we're not going to argue that there weren't fields that but I think we do forget that foreign workers take up much more of the general job sphere than just those fields and just being laborers right?
Like you have people who come here to work in everywhere from like biotech to medicine to economics and we think that all of those areas are areas in which they're replacing the average american person who would have that job instead.
The government has an obligation to its own citizens.
When we find ourselves in these kinds of economic situations, the US government needs to make sure that it's providing for its citizens before it benefits the citizens of other countries.
This is because the social contract is between the governments in its own citizens, not the government and the citizens of other nations.
It is its own citizens who pay taxes and allow their rights to be abridged, it is their own citizens that the government claims to represent and that elect the representatives into the government in the first place.
As such we think when the government allows foreign workers, all they are doing is saying that we are prioritizing the economic success and personal development of citizens from other nations above the citizens from our own, which we think is incredibly problematic given that now there are people who suffer because of those kinds of decisions within the US who are US citizens.
Our second argument is about reducing racial tensions.
Even if it isn't the case that foreign workers are actually stealing american jobs, the average american feels like they are.
This leads to all sorts of problems in society including raised levels of racism, xenophobia, and class tensions.
This has real physical impacts with increased violence against foreigners and worse social treatments.
It also makes it harder for foreigners to get rights and any social help they might need because of the dominance of this kind of resentment and this narrative.
People won't vote for better regulations on corporate abuse or labor or kinder laws regarding healthcare and provision there of to those who are not american citizens if they feel like these are the people who are costing them their jobs and preventing them from being able to live economically securely.
When you ban foreign workers people no longer feel like foreigners are a threat.
This is good for every foreigner who obtained citizenship and makes the united states a permanent home because in the status status quo, there's a lot of overflow where the dislike that americans feel toward foreigners often gets directed at foreign citizens.
We can curb this which is net good.
We think that the most important thing in this round is establishing positive contact because in the status quo, although the average american oftentimes has a lot of interactions with immigrants, those interactions are poisoned by the fact that they think that those people are stealing their jobs and harming their future career prospects.
When you remove that kind of threat you actually allow people to see each other for the individuals that they are, you allow for empathy to come in, and we think that's when you stop this kinds of problematic stereotypes that perpetrate in society from continuing.
That's when you stop racism, that's when you stop these kind like this violence that occurs oftentimes.
Proud to propose.