The motion for today's debate is that tattoos should be banned.
Three main areas of clash.
First on why tattoos are dangerous and we ought be preventing them.
So first recognize that no one in the world absolutely needs tattoos.
At most tattoos are a vague preferences to have something on your body but there's never like a harmful effect to this, right like people who really need liquid there can get temporary tattoos like it's not something that prevents them from functioning in any way and they can replace whatever emotional impetus that was with something else.
However it can be very very bad to have a tattoo.
There are oftentimes many accidents with dirty needles or misused needles, a lot of the time people like maybe people can get around dirty needles and bad needles by choosing your own tattoo parlor really quickly but oftentimes people just don't know that they have certain allergic reactions to the ink that is used or reactions to the synthetic compounds that are used given that tattooing is actually like a very evolving field things change very quickly and we don't think that there's an accurate predictor for an individual's health within that system.
But also we think that a lot that as such you should actually be incredibly risk averse right?
Like if it's so much worse to have that thing then to enjoy it before you have the thing then you probably shouldn't be doing it in the first place.
For example maybe enjoying a cigarette in the short term is something that I would really like and something that I want to do when I recognize that there are like long term problematic impacts that are much worse than this current pleasure, like IE having cancer I'm much less likely to do it and tattoos we think are the same way, especially since it's very possible for people to develop allergies or reactions to compounds or maybe those compounds have broken down in a dangerous way.
So like maybe I'm eighteen and getting that tattoo doesn't give me any adverse health effects but thirty years down the line maybe some of this is some of the objects in that ink degraded a little bit and suddenly I have a very dangerous allergic reaction.
Our second area of clash is that tattoos oftentimes lead to regret and thus you should avoid it in the first place.
Hindsight is twenty-twenty but if the government can predict that hindsight for you, then maybe you should just have it in the present rather than in the future.
Tattoos are a permanent decision to a very temporary body.
On the norms around you that often molded why you chose that tattoo in the first place are subject to intense change.
What seemed relevant at twenty is much less relevant at sixty but there's also an indirect like temporary other impact in that as you age your body gets a lot like saggier in certain places, there are certain effects that no one could have predicted, and oftentimes the areas in which you got a tattoo becomes somehow disfigured or changed.
And so maybe now your tattoo has stretched, the paint has thinned, and it just looks a lot uglier.
But simultaneously temporary tattoos are getting better and better, there's new technology that lets them last longer and look more legitimate and we think that if you don't have to risk that regret then you shouldn't do it because maybe you happen to love that tattoo for the rest of your life but the option of having to spend your life for that long with something that is regretted is enough of a risk that you want to avoid it.
This also kind of expands to the third point which is about why its a bad expenditure.
Given that it's something you can't predict that you'll be able to like and enjoy into the long term, you should probably spend money on something that guarantees that joy.
So, maybe a tattoo is going to make me happy right now but in the future I there's probably like so there I'm going to be unhappy and therefore this pretzel that will definitely guarantee me happiness forever and ever is a better choice.
For these reasons, proud to propose.