We should privatize national parks.
I think that this is a debate about how we should deal with the existential threat to parks.
Recognize that individuals are going to them less and less, the government is refusing to fund it more and more, especially with recent republican control.
National parks stand the most in terms of being defunded because there isn't really a side that sees national parks is their ride or die issues.
Like both parties recognize that there are more important problems in the world that they're going to fight for when it comes down to like there's republican majority so national parks are often the most likely to kind of get pushed to the side and cut down.
Recognize that this isn't a debate also about accessibility because national parks are going to be accessible on both sides of the house.
So what we mean by this is that in the status quo the government charges some kind of fee for entry and oftentimes, like sometimes it's free, like depending on what park it is and how much they need the money.
And we think that private corporations have the same kind of incentives in terms of wanting individuals to come there.
So they're going to prioritize keeping prices low in order to get as many visitors as possible, to keep their profit margins high.
So this is literally just a debate about other externalities.
Like what what we can guarantee on both sides of the house is that private parks will exist, and on our side of the house we can guarantee that those parks exist high quality with low entrance fees.
First, two main areas of argumentation, first on sustaining national parks.
As we've told you, recently visitation has dropped.
As have donations, as have funding like paths.
It puts the existence of the parks themselves in danger and we prefer to have parks with like some privatization like side effects that might be bad, as opposed to unmaintained parks that end up covered in empty beer bottles and dirty campsites.
Because that's exactly what happens in the status quo, is that even though the parks are still nationalized and they still exist, they aren't being maintained because the money to maintain them isn't there.
So the campgrounds get dirtier and dirtier, we're not protecting the animals in them as well, so on so forth.
We also just think that the problem here is that private that we're seeing opposition being willing to compromise on the existence of the parks because they want to maintain their purity.
They don't want mcdonald's nearby or things like that.
This is a literally stupid.
Like recognize that there isn't something so inherently sacred about private about like national parks or parks in general that you can't have corporations nearby.
Right?
Like having a mcdonald's at the entrance of the park is a very small price to pay for the park being able to continue to exist.
So we just think this is a dumb concern.
Our second argument is about creating incentives for long term protection and growth.
As we told you, the government budget is unpredictable.
But recognize that the sample projects as for privatization have worked.
For example in arizona we've already seen the privatization of multiple old public parks, in which the government actually outsourced the control of the park to private corporations.
And these perks continue to be the cleanest and most well maintained with in that state.
So worries about the long term quality is likely incorrect.
They have an incentive to keep it nice so that people will come.
So the idea that suddenly everything is just going to go downhill because private corporations are in charge is silly.
Our third argument is about minimizing government expenditure.
It's really much more important for the government to take care of other things.
Like we have a failing social security, there are many individuals who are on welfare, we have rising income inequality, these are all issues that require monetary fixes from the government.
And that money shouldn't be going to public parks instead.
Where the government should can off load these kinds of services, it ought to, given that it allows them to do other good in other places while compromising very little.
Proud to propose.