We shouldn't subsidize financial advisors.
Government probably talked a lot about why financial literacy is important.
We agree, but we think that we want to make sure that you're promoting literacy in the right way.
So this isn't just a debate about whether we think that individuals should have access to advising or should make be able to make good decisions, rather this is actually a debate about making sure that we're using money effectively and that we're addressing these kinds of principled goods in an in in a positive and just like efficient manner.
Two main arguments: first on why the subsidization is unnecessary.
Subsidization is an expensive process especially in the cases of financial advisers because you're subsidizing something that is a specialized services given by private companies and private individuals and it's also something that the majority of people don't actually need.
Financial decisions that people need to make are usually a google search away.
Most people aren't doing things more complicated than buying a house or investing in the stock market and the ones who are, usually have enough money to afford financial advisers on their own.
In the cases of your everyday financial decision, these are things that you can do that you can research beforehand.
Like most people have access to the internet and to computers and the most people can do things like ask these questions on forums or read up on it online and if they aren't, we don't think that it is more likely that they will put the effort into actually getting financial advising given that they're not putting in that effort in the status quo.
There are also plenty of nonprofits that involve themselves with making sure that such services are accessible to the people who need them.
So insofar as just like other nonprofits are willing to take up this burden, we don't think the government should.
Gov bench probably talked about how it is a permanent government entrust to provide financial services now since good services now mean less long term poor financial decisions that might lead to people relying on government services later.
But to win on these arguments they have to prove that the lack of such services actually results in long term dependences that are more expensive than paying for advisor's more broadly.
We don't think that there are enough people or enough mistakes to warrant that.
The individuals who would actually use subsidized financial advisors don't make up a majority of the population so we don't think that you'd actually be serving the public good.
Our second argument is about how this is the wrong governmental approach.
Even if government proves that this is a generally good thing for the government to subsidize, there are better ways to accomplish these same things.
It is more important to teach individuals to handle their own finances than to pay for a private third party.
First because it means that people will have these skills into the long term and they won't depend on the continuation of a government subsidized program that is oftentimes more likely to fail or get funding cut but second, because it will always be cheaper to pay for a class that teaches people how to manage their own money than to pay for financial advising for every single individual because a class will be able to handle ten to twenty people at a time were as advising can only happen one on one.
This means that you could also do things like these kinds of classes and a public school curriculum so people are getting access to this earlier.
The government has an obligation to maximize the amount of good that their money can do.
This is because they derive their money from the public and every dollar spent inefficiently is a dollar stolen from the general populace.
This means that if we prove to you that the government's advocacy is an inefficient use of funds, it becomes necessary to find another alternative that we might use to achieve the same goal.
The problem with the government plan is that it depends on paying private entities to do a public good.
This is bad because those public those private entities aren't transparent.
They set their own prices.
They don't have controllable practices.
It is better for the government to just fund its own agency that takes that takes care of education rather than paying for advising.
Proud to oppose.