We shouldn't ban the use of migrant workers.
I think in these kinds of debates, it's always about who like what the common strawman arguments are and recognizing that a lot of those common straw man arguments don't actually have any ground in reality, because I'm sure that government came up and they were talking about how migrant workers really take away from the american job pool such that regular americans can't take those jobs anymore, or about how the existence of migrant workers might raise crime rates or something similar, about how people often use migrant workers as drug mules.
And I think the problem with this is that even if there's some very small fraction of truth to any of these arguments, none of it is such a large part of it that it is worth saying, on the basis of this thing, we shouldn't have migrant workers.
And I think the other problem with these arguments is that they forget that not having migrant workers doesn't mean you don't have people from other countries, right?
We think that migrant workers, h one b visas, all these like programs that allow individuals to come into the country to work legally are simply avenues of legality which, if taken away, wouldn't prevent individuals from coming in illegally.
And I think that you actually get less illegal immigration if there are avenues for people to come in on their own, but also that you get better regulation of illegal immigration if it is not so overflowing with individuals who are just here to do some work, like if there isn't an alternative for people.
And I think that that's really what migrant workers provides.
It provides a legal avenue for something that would otherwise be illegal, and there are a lot of benefits for the fact that it's legal, right?
Like we think that what happens in the status quo when you don't have migrant workers or in areas of low migrant worker density is that you have people filling in these jobs who, because they are illegal, can't do things like lobby for fair working conditions or for fair wages.
And not only is that incredibly oppressive and bad for them, but it's also really bad, because that's when you actually get the kind of problematic competition that I'm sure government talked about, because it is when illegal immigrants can afford, or not afford but are desperate enough and are not within the regular systems that they can do things like take really low wages and really poor working conditions that american simply don't want to take, and that's when american workers can't compete with them: when the conditions of that job are literally so bad that americans just aren't desperate enough for them.
And I think that having things like migrant workers really undercuts a lot of that, because you literally cannot pay them such low illegal wages.
They have to have some sort of benefits, like regular protections applied to them, and that's when your competition is fair, because you're not competing between an incredibly desperate population that will do anything to get that job and then like a regular american service person, rather you're competing with a desperate population that is not allowed to stoop so low so as to sacrifice their own rights and their own humanity.
Two main arguments, first on fulfilling economic need.
I think the problem with a lot of the arguments that government probably made is that they are based on these scare taxes tactics that aren't real, right?
The idea that we're that migrant workers steal jobs is just false, right?
We saw that fields lay fallow in texas when we started limiting movement soon after trump was elected, and this was vastly because people didn't want to fill in those jobs, because they were manual labor, and they were hard, and they weren't paid as well.
And I think at the point that americans are unwilling to take those positions, it's not immigrants who are stealing those jobs, it's rather americans who simply don't want them, but someone still has to do them.
The second argument is about freedom of movement.
Like, at the end of the day, migrant workers are people who these jobs make a very large difference to, right?
It's about being able to provide more money for your family, more financial stability and that's a really huge difference on quality of life in a situation where the difference of not having them or having them isn't nearly as large in terms of like the negative impact on the US, so we just think that their right to like have access to this better standard of living outweighs.
Proud to oppose.