We should abandon voter registration.
I think the modeling here is really important.
Because by no means are we just creating a system in which there is no holds barred on voting, anyone can just walk in drop their vote and walk out.
We think we obviously recognize the importance of tracking the identity and the citizenship of an individual who comes in to vote we just object to the idea that they have to go through a process weeks in advance that registers them and checks all of these different kinds of ID's, which if they don't have is likely to prevent them from voting at all.
We think that that is very different from just checking someone's name, checking someone's driver's license as they come in through the through the door to vote on like the actual poll day.
So we think in the status quo the problem is that voting registration is being done weeks in advance in uncomfortable timing, it's asking for mass amounts of proof of who you are beyond just your social security number and perhaps like a state ID.
It's asking for things like your passport, it's asking for birth certificates and things like that.
We think that's really problematic and oftentimes just used to prevent individuals from being able to be democratically involved.
To main arguments, first on increasing access to voting just generally.
Like a lot of people just don't have time to do the process of voter registration and we think this is no and we think this is just equivalent to just straight up attempts to prevent democracy on the parts of the group that facilitate and like and advocate for voter registration, because they're literally saying that your citizenship is not enough to be a voter, you have to prove it in all of these different ways.
And they purposefully make the process long and arduous.
Like we just think it's really problematic that in order to get an out of state ballot your registration has to go through like six different bureaucratic methods.
This is just a way of preventing individuals from participating in the process that determines the country's outcome.
We think this is really problematic, first in terms of an identity obligation.
As the united states you are literally founded on the principle that individuals are going to choose their government.
But when you have things like voter registration it affects certain individuals more than others.
What this means is that there are going to be people who have a really easy time going through voter registration because all of their documents are on hand, because their job doesn't go super late, because they know, they are educated about when these kinds of things occur, verses populations that tend to be more poor, which intersects a lot of the time with people of color in the united states who don't have the time, who aren't paying as much attention because they physically cannot.
And we think that's really problematic.
And we think also that there's just a like physical outcome kind of obligation in that it is always better to have a country where the majority of individuals have selected their leader.
First because those people are actually going to be okay with living in that country.
They're going to be more productive members of society when they feel when they feel like they've participated and aren't feeling apathetic about the public political process because they've been blocked out of it.
But second because we think when you get like violence and social uprising is when individuals feel like they've been blocked from the process.
So we think that the you're just more likely to have instability and coups and things like that if you have things like voter registration and people feel like they're not being heard by the general like political sphere.
Our second argument is about preventing based discrimination.
Historically and in the status quo this is been done voter registration has been used to prevent black people from voting, to prevent women from voting.
We think just because of the fact that harkens back to those kinds of times it reminds individuals of that, we think that's a really bad PR like PR essentially.
We think that people are just uncomfortable with the concept and are more likely to have bad thoughts about the government and bad thoughts about the general like political activity if that happens.
And this overflows.
Right?
Like it means that people don't do things like donate to political spheres, it means they don't do things like read the news because they feel disengaged from that.
So you have an infinitely less informed and infinitely less active populace.
Proud to propose.