The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit slum tourism, slum tourism being the act by which tours of usually wealthy people go into like slummy or less like more underprivileged, less wealthy neighborhoods to look at the way that the poor live and like take pictures, etcetera.
So, two main areas of clash, the first on why we think it is problematic that it benefits from the suffering of others and not only benefits, but actively often harms the people while benefiting.
We think it's important to set a framework by which you understand who exactly is benefiting from these kinds of tours, because we think it's never the case that this money somehow goes down to the people living in these areas, that somehow it actively helps people that there are tour buses moving through their cities.
The truth of the matter is that a lot of the time these tours are run by large corporations that pocket the money coming out of the tours, and never give anything back to the community.
At most, you get a couple of dollars trickling out per tour back into these slums but in the majority of situations, they get nothing, rather you're just helping these large corporate corporate tours grow and profit.
We think the benefits also go to the rich people who get to wander around these locations.
They get to look around, feel like bit feel like they're getting a different view of the world, without having to actively spend very much or give back to these communities or become a part of these communities and truly understand their suffering.
They get to be passing by and looking through the window.
We think the problem is that the people who are who are the who are at the core of this, the people who are getting looked at, the people who live in these neighborhoods, get nothing out of it.
Not only does the money not go to them, but it's also that they get actively harmed.
They're they are looked at by by people who are richer as though they are exotic.
It is degrading to their to them to be like animals in a zoo for the pleasure of those who are richer.
We think these tours exoticisize poverty and degrade the people in these areas, and that is unacceptable and ought be prohibited.
Our second area of clash has to do with gentrification.
We think that a lot of the time these kinds of tours draw attention to low income areas and draw rich people into them in a way that gentrifies and ultimately pushes out those of lower income.
We think exoticisizing the area attracts younger people for who, for two reasons, decide to settle nearby: either they think that they can help the area to grow and flourish and reach their conception of what a good area or a healthy neighborhood would look like, or they think it's cool to live around slums.
They're hipsters who want to feel like they are up and coming in this area.
We think the problem is that even the most well-intentioned of people who are moving into these area push the costs of living up.
They compete with with those who are already in the area for housing costs and because they can afford afford a higher cost, they often push the prices of houses up for everyone else.
They want their groceries to come of a higher standard and thus have a higher price, so what once was a stop and shop becomes a whole foods, and they push local businesses out because once local businesses can because once bigger businesses can see that they can make a profit in this area where they previously could not, they buy out the leases of those that are preexisting.
Slowly the area becomes gentrified and those people are pushed out.
The problem with pushing those who are poorer out is that there's not really a place for them to go.
We think this is another example of destroying an established community without ever giving back to them and benefiting off of their suffering.
We think it's a problem that what happens on their side of the house is the romanticization of poverty, the destruction of people's communities, and then the subsequent continual ignoring of there actually being a problem.
We think it is preferable then to just leave these communities alone.
Never touch them in the first place because at least then, you're not actively destroying what they're built.
For these, reasons proud to propose.