Don't prohibit unisex bathrooms.
Look, recognize first and foremost that danny's version of what the world will look like on his side of the house is absurd.
The idea that you can go in and change all of the infrastructure in every single building that has become accustomed to having separate bathrooms for men and women that aren't single occupancy is not only impossible to ever occur, but impossible to ever enforce on the part of the government, insofar as it would require the functional tearing down of entire portions of every single building that is public in the country.
We think something that is more reasonable is the idea that you simply have to either convert one of these bathrooms into a unisex bathroom or add a separate unisex individual occupancy bathroom.
We don't think that we are limiting in any world how individual groups have separate bathrooms as long as you additionally have one that is unisex.
This kind of freedom is key when we allow these kinds of policies to occur, because it prevents the situation in which you economically destroy every single small business and the majority of larger businesses and universities as well because of regulations that no one can afford to comply with.
Three main areas of clash: first accommodating gender identity.
Recognize that gender as a concept is fake.
It is something that is imposed on us by society.
The idea that something makes me a girl and something else make someone else a boy in a deeper level, is something that is created by society to limit individuals to specific roles.
And we think that showing support for those communities by doing things like having unisex bathrooms is incredibly important because it tells individuals that not only do we recognize that the concept is fake, but we also recognize your right to exercise these kinds of freedoms even if you live in a society that doesn't recognize your existence so often.
We think that individual people's comfort is always going to matter most.
First because we don't think there is a cost for the general population.
Danny talks about people who might be survivors of sexual assault.
We think that there's enough political will that the majority of areas are going to continue to have separate bathrooms for men and women with a couple of unisex bathrooms thrown in.
Even if that's not true, every single college campus is going to have something like a single occupancy bathroom where people who feel uncomfortable can go.
Second area of clash though is about why danny's plan is impossible.
First it's incredibly inefficient.
I don't know if he has ever seen the line that stands for a woman's bathroom, but it is always too long.
Not just because there is a lack of space but because recognize that he doesn't actually solve that.
Like right?
Like the amount of stoles you can fit into one long bathroom is always going to be more than the amount of individual unisex bathrooms that each have their own sink and own space.
So we think the problem on his side of the house is that you don't, you you're actually just facilitating those lines.
Now they're not just for women, now there for everyone.
So I guess that's some kind of equality but probably not the beneficial ones.
But more than this, we just think this is incredibly expensive.
Right?
He pretends like this is something that the government can cover, he talks about how we spend so much on the military, but he doesn't explain at all why the government would be paying for these kinds of renovations.
First we would say that renovating every single public or like private private but like large occupancy building in the united states would be too expensive even for the government, not to mention incredibly wasteful and unnecessary insofar as the pre existing bathrooms work.
But more than that we just don't think that's something the government can do, at which point he is causing a lot of small businesses that don't deserve to have to do this, to incur that cost.
Our third area of clash is about breaking social norms.
It is unclear to me why we are so afraid of hearing the opposite gender use the bathroom?
Specifically the stigmatization of women's common bodily function becomes the justification for the fetishization of womanhood as a whole and the prevention of integration into equal society.
Proud to oppose.