Trade barriers aren't unjust.
First recognize that tim's speech doesn't prove injustice, it only begins to prove that there might be economic benefits to not having trade barriers.
But that's not the debate that we're having today.
The debate is about whether or not it is justified, which means we win if we show that it is the right of the state to impose trade barriers regardless of the bad impact that it has.
Because all you need for justification is a reason for which it is justified.
Like oftentimes we see people take justified actions that might have a net negative action like net negative response in them, right?
Like if somebody cheats on you, you were justified in breaking up with that person, even if you might be unhappy in the long term because you're without them or because it was actually really good relationship.
It's about taking the actions that are justified, not about taking the actions that are objectively better for you as a state.
So even if we buy into all of his economic harms, we still don't think it's enough for him to win the round because he never touches on the philosophical arguments that become important in these kinds of debates as to why something might be unjust or just.
Two main arguments, first on having a middle ground.
There needs to be a way to sanction a country and demonstrate displeasure that has some kind of physical impact ie it is more than just angrilly talking at a country but isn't as extreme as starting a literal war or having boots on the ground.
Trade barriers in that are that in between method.
We can make a statement without having to opt for something extreme and it also doesn't mean we have to stay silent on issues that might be really important to us.
This is good because other countries do a lot of really bad stuff and a lot of problematic stuff that hurts both their citizens and the united states.
You need to be able to respond in the same way, but boots on the ground would hurt every actor involved a lot more.
So we kind of look for something that is still going to accomplish harming that nation enough to provide an incentive for change, but isn't going to harm us in the process or do or do something that is like bad for or or do something that like doesn't have an impact, right?
Like we think that these kinds of negotiations in these situations need to have a proper outcome.
Our second argument is about the rights of individual countries.
We don't think that countries have obligations to each other, only to their citizens.
So if a country feels like having a trade barrier is important to its people and its long term goals, that's the right of that government to impose them.
Because at the end of the day it is its citizens who are paying taxes into it, it is its citizens who are having their rights limited in order to exist within that country, and so it means that the state is able to take these actions on behalf of its citizens in order to do what they think is best.
And this extends to situations in which maybe the state thinks it's best to help the citizens of another country because they think the fact that these kinds of oppressions might exist in society are already so bad and showing such a bad example that you have to be able to change it.
So we think it's actually super important and something that should really matter in these kinds of rounds is just like do we think the state has a right to do this.
In our situation it is always going to be the case the state has the right to do it just not necessarily that the state is going to be doing it in the way that is like best in terms of outcomes.
But also to address this awful free market argument.
First it doesn't matter and isn't necessary for just state because it's only at the base of some western liberal democracies that state that the free market is part of their core beliefs.
This is pretty much just the united states.
But also even in the united states, the free market is not without limitations philosophically.
We often have limitations on working conditions and wages which are just examples of limitations on the free market in the same way that trade barriers are.
But we recognize that it is the right of the government to impose those limitations because the government doesn't serve the free market, it serves the people.
So if the state decides that certain trade barriers serve people best, that's within the states rights.
Especially true because the free market will continue in all other spheres.
So it's barely even a real limitation, it's just like a slight infringement in one particular area.
Tim keeps seeming to assume that all that that matters in a state is whether the free market is fully functional but the state isn't just a free market machine.
Proud to oppose.