The motion for today's debate is that we should increase immigration to the united states.
We're going to go all out here and say the way we're gonna implement this is through something like open borders.
Two main areas of clash: the first, on the obligation of the united states as a western liberal democracy and specifically as the united states.
First and foremost we think there's an obligation to recognize freedom of movement is a fundamental human right.
Before I get into what makes it a fundamental human right, I think it's important to establish the human rights exist outside of the states states and those laws that you're under.
Weeding that rather this comes from something that is innately human about us as individuals.
We see this in situations such as, even if like, in a different country such as, like even if germany decided to fundamentally a bridge things like property rights, even when we see something like in syria - where there are human rights abuses with regards to like shooting your own citizens, even though these are different countries that operate under different law systems, we still denounce these practices because we don't respect sovereignty above our respect for fundamental human rights.
Now that we've established that, let's talk about why movement specifically is a human right.
We think that insofar as movement is facilitative to me filling out any other of my rights, AKA I cannot fulfill the right to life, the right to the pursuit of happiness, anything else that we recognize as fundamental, unless I can move to the places that allow me to do so or move enough to I don't know, if there's a job somewhere that will like let me self actualize better than what I'm currently doing.
Unless I can move there I have no way of fulfilling them.
Insofar as that's all like, that is the only way I can access my other rights, we think it has to be considered a human right.
But more than that, we think that birth place itself especially arbitrary.
Insofar as I didn't choose whether to be born in mexico or the united states, whether to be born to a drug addict or to a doctor, we think that it is fundamental to being a human that you ought to be able to change your situation in any way possible.
And that if the states abridge this right they are bridging your ability to find equality regardless of where you are born.
We think that the foundation of what the united states is built on even more so makes it a requirement for the US to recognize this.
Insofar as the US is a country of immigrants, a country that gloats upon the idea of being built by people who escaped from their own countries, we think that because of this, the US specifically ought recognize this.
We think that when we don't see it as a human rights violation, it, when we don't see this as like a fundamental human right we force people to stay in unpleasant situations, thus committing human rights violation ourselves.
Our secondary of clash has to do with the pragmatics.
First, let's talk about innovation.
Because we think that when we allow youth and other people to come in from other countries, in a state where our population is aging dramatically dramatically faster than we are having children, we are increasing the amount of power and minds that are coming in and working in industries and contributing to the innovation of the nation.
We think that this increases collaboration between groups that think incredibly differently.
The way that I was taught to approach problems and view my life and my career here in the united states, is very different from the way that we approach society and careers in other countries such as russia or china.
We think that because this allows better communication between these different groups, it is necessarily good to increase immigration.
We also think that brilliant cultures come in from other countries.
Things that we've never experienced before contribute to things like food, festivals and other beautiful things.
Finally, on economics we think that low skilled labor increases competition and cheapens goods.
Currently, the problem in the united states is that corporations are either outsourcing to other countries or making their goods incredibly expensive, because they have to either pay a lot for they have to pay a lot for labor.
We think that when you bring in low skilled labor, the competition for who will who will accept the lowest wage increases and requires necessarily that goods prices go down.
We think in the end a lot of the time immigrants to the job that american citizens just don't want, and fulfilling these jobs is good for the economy.
For these reasons proud to propose.