Don't privatize national parks.
First this argument about competition we think utterly doesn't matter because the problems start once the land is already under new management.
Firms can just pretend that all they want is something good and they'll follow government directions and not deliver once they get the contract.
Moreover we think that most firms are similarly problematic so there's not a real competition but rather a competition up to a certain barrier over which companies don't go because they don't want to lose out on an extra profitability or it stops being worth it to compete for it anymore.
So maybe a lot of companies are going to be likely to sign on towards protecting certain trails but the majority of them are probably going to withhold their right to build restaurants and private establishments on certain parts of that land.
Just because that's something that would be important for them the long term and there isn't really a reason for them to manage or own that property if that isn't something that they can do with it because they still want to make money otherwise private corporations would have no interest in buying it in the first place.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining accessibility.
It is a problem of private corporations that their main goal will always be maximizing their profit margin.
There is no higher order principle that governs their decisions.
This is the cool thing about the government owning things, they get to prioritize the good of society or their citizens.
They can afford to sacrifice profitability in order to make sure that citizens are being provided for.
This becomes especially important with things like public parks.
The reason they're public in the first place is because society and the government recognize that exposure and access to nature and natural spaces is important to individuals and their development.
When public parks are privatized, the first thing that happens is that entry fees get as expensive as possible which then seeps into the surrounding area and makes that more expensive as well.
Things like parking lots that now have higher charges, the restaurants surrounding the areas increase in price as the demographic of people visiting shifts to those that can afford the park rather than just everyone who is interested in seeing that park and in the area.
Tim's advertising benefits just don't matter if they come up with price hikes and other issues.
Like who cares if you get more interest or more knowledge about the public parks if the demographic of the type of people going is now going to be one that is much higher class.
We think that oftentimes the people who really need public parks are individuals who aren't allowed to connect with nature in other more expensive ways so just through playing team sports or like other pay to play activities that rich parents can often buy for their children.
We think that when you have prices that go up because of private corporate ownership you belay the entire purpose of having a public park in the first place.
Our second argument is about protecting nature.
Tim talks about crumbling infrastructure, but it's really unclear what he's referring to.
All national parks really need is for the trails to be maintained which is easy for the government to do.
It is not the case that national parks are falling apart in the status quo.
We also just think that it's about what private corporations are likely to add.
Things like fast food restaurants in the middle of that park, using the land as advertising space for the biggest bidder who wants their stuff up, but it also takes away from national parks physically by adding more pollution and requiring the destruction of nature to build these kinds of tourist infrastructures.
At the end of the day, the government might not be a perfect actor, but privatization is likely to be even worse because it cedes government control over the condition of these parks into the long term.
So even if a company might do really nicely for a little bit, we think that's something that is likely to decrease and go sour later on.