We shouldn't ban gratuities.
Brief overview.
Sam talks a lot about how this is an excuse for employers to pay people less, how this is like very bad etcetera, and like we just don't understand why we have to bite all of these economic impacts, right?
Like we think that you can still make laws for a better minimum wage, or a higher minimum wage for tipped workers, or require employers to make up the difference between the regular minimum wage and the tipped amount, without necessarily getting rid of that money that comes in on top that can be incredibly helpful.
Like we think that sam forgets that for a lot of people tips, even if they are like an unfair way of creating like service incentives, and even if businesses sometimes take advantage of them, are still more important to the individual person that they can earn more through them than anything else.
Which is why two main areas of clash, first on why it is good for workers.
Recognize that it is often a lot more money than their labor would be otherwise valued at.
We'd live in a society that systematically devalues some forms of labor as compared to others.
IE, if I am a short order cook I am going to be paid much less than a doctor, even though I am someone who will probably exert a lot more effort in my day to day activities.
Not to devalue the labor of doctors, but it's really difficult to stand on your feet all day, it's rough to have to interact with customers who don't care about you, so on so forth, like you don't get the same respect as people in higher fields do.
So we think that like there's a problem in society where we arbitrarily rank intellectual work as more important than physical labor, or labor that like has to do with interacting with others.
We think that gratuities get around this.
It allows individual customers to rank the value of another person's labor, and the majority of the time they evaluate it to be worth more than general society or the federal government does.
Like even if it started out as an oppressive tactic, we think that vastly what it has become is a way for individuals to subvert a world at which they know their labor is going to be devalued by saying " well, I'm going to get other people to pay me more by being good ".
We also think it just provides individuals more options, right?
Like if you don't want to work in a service job because because that's like your personality, you don't have to.
But it provides individuals who want to work in service, who maybe prioritize making a little bit extra money over other things, like college students etcetera, with another option that would allow them to actualize that.
Like we think that a lot of the time people take gap years and spend time working as bartenders, which isn't something they'd be able to afford on their side of the house.
We also just think it applies to individuals who never went to college, who want to like work in a specific sector and want to choose between jobs, and this makes this a competitive wage with other kinds of jobs that might be harder to do, like factory work, etcetera.
So we just think that a world in which choice is maximized is good, and gratuities provide options to individuals where those options would previously not exist given comparative wages.
Our second area of clash is about how it's good for customers.
Recognize that it creates a good incentive for waiters to treat you well.
Like we think that service is part of the experience of going out and you should probably have a good experience if you're going to be spending money on that.
And we think that in countries like russia etcetera it is actually well-known that waiters will treat you very poorly, because their job their wage doesn't depend on you out all.
Like we think the problem with all of sam's argumentation is that people who don't have money still don't have to pay tip, right?
Like that's that's by no means required or you can pay very little, you can calculate it before you get there because it's oftentimes a percentage of your overall meal, so you can just decide what you're going to order beforehand.
Like we think that at the end of the day this is a marginal impact compared to the fact that you can have better service overall, you can reward things that you prefer to occur while you are there, you can build relationships with your wait staff, and your wait staff is capable of making more than they otherwise would.
Proud to oppose.