We shouldn't introduce recall elections.
Two main arguments: first, on implementation impacts.
First, I want to address tim's argument on democracy.
We think that democracy is fulfilled when people elect the politician to office, in the first place, and then if they lose favor, they won't get reelected, and that would also fulfill democracy in the long term.
You don't necessarily have to fulfill democracy by recalling a candidate halfway through, rather you can fulfill it by keeping up with people's changing preferences through elections, which is what we do in the status quo.
But more than that, we think that democracy can be outweighed by pragmatics.
This is why we don't have an absolute democracy with one person, one vote on every policy, because we recognize that even though this might create the most democratic system, we don't value that if that's also incredibly inefficient and oftentimes counterproductive, because people might not know what they are voting on.
This is why we elect representatives to do that job for us.
We're willing to compromise absolute democracy because we know that we wouldn't be able to be effective with it.
This is similar in this situation where, sure, maybe recall elections are more democratic than the comparative, which is already pretty democratic, but because it introduces such a huge amount of inefficiency into the system, we don't want to do it.
I think that tim's model is very problematic because there are very few elections that are won by such a large majority that there aren't twenty percent of the people against them.
Being supported by eighty percent of the population is a really big deal for any politician, and the majority of elections are won by much smaller margins.
This means that getting twenty percent for a recall vote will be ridiculously easy, even if it isn't successful.
This is problematic because even when it doesn't go through, the call for a recall is a powerful signal that creates discomfort and confusion in the population.
It seeds distrust in a system that doesn't necessarily deserve it and actively prevents the political system from being able to move on after a harsh election season to get things done by making everyone less accepting of changes and more critical of the administration.
It can also literally be used to stall and disrupt politics.
If every time a democratic governor does something, the republicans call for a recall, that creates a stop and go situation which is both exhausting to the general populace but also threatens productivity in those political offices.
Tim says that the populace isn't vigilant, and that's exactly the problem.
It's really easy for fearmongering or bullying to cloud people's understanding, which will then compromise the democratic nature of these recall elections altogether, because you're going to have so many of them, it'll be so hard for people to keep up with them consistently that eventually you're going to have a undemocratic outcome simply because too many people are at work during the recall election, or you have increased apathy because it's been happening so often.
Our second argument is about the bad impact it has on politicians.
First, we think that they won't take actions for fear of these recall, and this is actually a really big problem, because there are very few policies that have a broad generalizable support.
Almost every action is controversial to a minimum twenty percent of the population.
If a politician wanted to be beloved by all, all they would do would be to cut taxes by five percent and then sit back and maintain the status quo.
Maybe they would, maximum, have some infrastructure spending, but we still need to accomplish change and growth despite limited backlash.
So having definitive elections without recall give time for politicians to do what they promised.
If they're constantly afraid of a recall, they would be severely limited in terms of what they could do, which would have lasting impact on the population and prevent us from doing things like ever spending money on like social welfare, because this is a controversial topic, or ever doing things like getting rid of pollution or having more regulations on companies, because that's also controversial.
Proud to oppose.