We should fight the sedentary lifestyle.
In terms of how we model this, we think that fighting sedentary lifestyles includes funneling government money into education about physical wellness.
We don't just mean gym classes, we mean classes that will discuss with students nutrition and personalized diet and exercise plans as well as groups that will discuss the importance of different substances to the body, how to treat your body well, and other general good to know things that we think a lot of people learn off of the internet if they get involved with fitness but don't actually learn in a formalized setting while in school which we think is very problematic.
But the other way that we would fight this is by encouraging individual jobs to provide special benefits to people who work out, programs that might pay you per the amount of weight that you lose, or any other similar kind of deal where our general society encourages people to be active and physically healthy.
Two main arguments, first on physical health.
I think it's important to note that our country is struggling with one of the largest and most intense obesity epidemics that has ever existed in history mostly because history has not been privileged enough to have the problem of so much nutrients and so much availability of resources that you could come obese.
But insofar as this has become a problem for us, we think this means the countries individually should fight for stopping that kind of problem and the easiest way to do so is by teaching people healthy habits and fighting the sedentary lifestyle that allows you to expend so little energy in a day while consuming so much.
We think that these obesity epidemics are really important because they actively shorter shorten individuals' lifespans, but also because they shorten the the window of productivity that people have if I'm going to be like limiting my mobility when I'm older because I will be obese it means I will not be able to work as rigorously, it means I'm likely to have other health complications that are expensive and might put me out of the out of mobility for good.
We also think that a lot of the time up like upholding physical health by fighting the sedentary lifestyle allows you to live healthy for longer.
Working out and being active allows you to live longer by keeping your body strong, it makes you more capable of staving off disease by boosting your immune system so you'll get sick less often, and it will increase your life expectancy and especially your healthy life expectancy by staving off disease, boosting your immune system, and allowing you to have greater mobility for longer so you can physically move to the things that you want to be doing and things like that.
A lot of people are getting sick very young from old people diseases such as heart disease or diabetes because they are living a sedentary lifestyle.
So just statistically it is the case that we ought be fighting this because of the amount of younger people who are suffering from things that we previously never had to worry about that younger population suffering from.
Our second argument is about emotional health.
Even people who look physically fit and aren't overweight but are living a sedentary lifestyle aren't being their best self.
Physical activity boosts levels of serotonin and dopamine, it help stabilize your hormones, and it means you personally will feel better.
As you get older you'll be able to be mobile for longer which is great because a major issue for older people is getting depressed in their old age as they lose their mobility and independence.
It also allows these people to spend meaningful time with family and friends for longer.
If I'm not limited by mobility from playing with my children and grandchildren or participating in friendly games for a longer time, then I am likely to continue to be able to maintain the rest of my emotional health for a longer time.
Being stuck in a room all alone with no control over your surroundings is the best way to lose the internal locus of control and fall into these kinds of depressive slumps that oftentimes accelerate your you closer to your death.
Proud to propose.