Obviously if you characterize marriage as an old patriarchal and religious system you're going to want to abolish it.
The problem is that this just isn't what marriage is in the status quo.
It's not the old age anymore.
It doesn't have to be a religious ceremony and it doesn't have to be patriarchal.
Rather it can be an agreement based on two consentual adults who want to spend the rest of their lives together and want to have some kind of security on that investment that says I'm not just going to disappear without a trace after we have a child.
I'm not just going to abandon our shared home so that you have to pay for all of it.
We think more so that it is come a lot worse if you leave marriage to only be a religious institution because it leaves this it leaves the system with no government oversight.
It means you don't actually have a way for when those religious people break up for the government to say here's whose property goes where and there's no way for those religious people if they're being abused in their relationship or that the relationship is bad to seek a divorce that allows the government to say that person no longer owns you.
Two main areas of clash first on why marriage as an institution is good.
Recognize that people are generally not lone creatures they require some kind of long term support and company.
And it's oftentimes not something that family and friends can provide alone.
Marriage is a way for those people to settle down and avoid that loneliness and go through life with support.
And therefore we think that it ought be encouraged.
Sure it's not for everybody but we think that it's preferable to have people to have an incentive to try to find this kind of happiness than not.
We also think that it's economically preferable.
Once you get married it's cheaper to have housing food becomes cheaper and large investments can be made together making it more secure and making it less risky.
It's also better for alarm larger economy given that a lot of people living in single rooms and alone oftentimes means more consumption of electricity and other resources and less coop like like less collaboration together.
More than this we think that people enter these commitments requiring security because it's not just me promising that I'll be around you for awhile relationships also often mean economic commitments such as home ownership together or very large economic commitments such as children.
We think marriage provides a stable way in which people can signal to each other I'm not going to leave you after we have a child you have some kind of insurance that if I do there will be legal recourse for you.
And we think that kind of legal recourse is absolutely necessary.
Which brings me nicely into my second area of clash which is why marriage is an institution that is legally necessary.
Because when people get married or engage in long term relationships they begin to share a lot of expenses and goods.
Children occur and people put varying amounts of labor into those relationships.
So say one person might massively help with the other person's business.
So when that relationship falls apart there needs to be a recognized standard by which we say these people have been together for long enough have committed enough to each other that they each deserve to be compensated for that time or those goods or the children need to somehow be divided.
This can't occur just with relationships because where does the metric lie when you've been together for two years is three years enough?
Like we see that a lot of time people stay as just dating for years and years and years because they're unready to make that commitment yet.
We think that marriage provides a very easy signaling mechanism by which people say we are ready to make a long term actual commitment that can have legal standing so that when it goes sour you can actually be compensated to the amount of effort that you put into the relationship in the first place.
The alternative world is one in which if people choose to split up there is no legal recourse by which the weaker person can say I deserve half of our goods I deserve half of the kids or I did half of the house and I deserve to have shared custody.
We think the only way in which you get this is of marriage exists for these reasons proud to oppose.