The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce universal health care.
Two main areas of clash.
The first, on health care being a right.
Most societies and countries recognize a fundamental right to life for all individuals that applies regardless of your economic standing, race, religion, or other or other arbitrary differences.
We see this when we balk at human rights abuses, because even when it is someone who is incredibly poor, someone who is homosexual, we are still unhappy that they are having these rights violated, because your rights don't come from your immutable characteristics, but rather from some deeper level of personhood that everybody share, it is shared in the way that we suffer in the same ways, in the way that we interact with the world.
But also, I think it's important to establish exactly how arbitrary the lottery of birth is, and why it can never be a factor in deciding where rights lie.
We think at the point the course of an entire life can be changed based on who your parents are, whether you are born into a rich or a poor family, defines whether you can access higher education, defines whether when hard times come, you are able to have a pillow to lean back on.
At the point that such arbitrary differences and like background set aside our entire life like in the long term, we don't think that you can meaningfully affect the way that you distribute rights based on this, insofar as anybody could have had this situation.
Let's talk about health care specifically though.
Because we think that the right to life is only accessible if you also have access to healthcare, which makes healthcare a facilitative right.
If I cannot live a fully self-actualized life, because I don't have my daily dosage of medication because I cannot afford it, we don't think you're actually meaningfully accessing the right to life.
But more than this, we tell you the government already recognizes these kinds of rights, when it does things like redistribute wealth through taxes and supports welfare.
We think this is already a message on the part of the government that says, in order to fulfill the right to life, we must first fulfill some basic needs at the beginning.
We also think that is the government's responsibility to do things like this.
Insofar as the government exists in order to protect the rights that individuals cannot protect themselves, then the right to healthcare and the right to health lays under this.
I myself cannot administer the needed medical attention that I might need in order to survive, and it becomes the job of the government to make sure that I have access to that, because of the rights that I give up in exchange.
More than this, we think that the message that the government sends when they don't provide health care is one that is incredibly pernicious.
Because it says that the amount that we make dictates whether we live or die.
And we think that this necessarily undercuts the equality of every individual, because it evaluates people based on the amount of money that they make and not on the fact that they are human.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's good for society.
We think that people themselves are individually more productive when they are not sick or struggling with illnesses.
But more on a deeper level than that.
We think that oftentimes preventative care, that people who don't have insurance just don't have access to, is incredibly important in preserving longevity.
If I can't go to the hospital and get regular breast cancer checkups, I will not know that I have breast cancer until it is far too late to do anything about it, and my life is cut short by many years by comparison to other people around me.
We think this is incredibly pernicious, because what this means is that people who don't have access to to healthcare oftentimes end up living much shorter lives that are often much more dangerous, because when you're living with chronic pain or chronic illness, you're also not able to like keep up with your workload, you're going to be taking more sick days, and you're going to oftentimes be much more likely to end up fired or lose your job.
Finally though, I think that a lot of the time the effects this has on youth are also very important.
We think that a lot of the time, youth are expected to drop out of school and take care of sick sick people, and they just wouldn't have this burden if those people had access to insurance.
Basically what this means, is that if my sick mother had insurance when she when she got cancer, I wouldn't have to drop out of school in order to take care of her, and my life would then be much much different, and probably better.
For these reasons, proud to propose.