Don't subsidize adoptions.
I think that we're going to counter model this.
I think that if there's a certain amount of money that they are taking, that would be going toward subsidizing adoption, if it's coming out of some separate budget we would instead it put that money into fixing the orphanages and state systems that exist in the status quo.
Moreover it we think there's an overview that needs to be incredibly clear in this round: sam doesn't change the decision making calculus of adoptive parents.
They're still going to be going on the same heuristics that they were planning on going all along.
IE we see massive numbers of children with disabilities, people of color left behind, because of the way that adoptive parents internalize what is a desirable trait in a child.
And we think that those kids are still being left behind on the government's side.
It's just about what quality and conditions they are left behind in.
Two main areas of clash, first on why this is a bad use of funds.
Recognize that adoptions benefit a minority of children because the number of kids left to the state far exceeds the number of desiring parents.
This isn't something that is going to change, because even if he incentivizes a tiny amount more of adoptions than usual, this isn't like like this is something that is going to be a marginal effect because he uses the wrong decision calculus.
It's not the cost that often, it's not be cost barrier that usually prevents people from adopting.
It's usually that they simply do not want to adopt.
We live in a culture that prefers to have your own kids even if that is something that is less preferable or arbitrary.
But more than that we live in a culture that oftentimes doesn't want any kids at all, well that's why we're growing older.
So we think that insofar as he's not targeting these kinds of things, he's just saying: " hey look it's going to be marginally cheaper now. "
Were unclear on which demographic he is going to cause to do this.
Moreover we think that he doesn't change the cost of the state system because those would require more of a number shift.
So these two more kids that might be getting adopted don't impact a lot of the larger costs that come along with these kinds of state systems.
So like two less kids doesn't mean that you can pay for a smaller house so that you can minimize your property taxes.
It doesn't mean that you can hire meaningfully less people so that it can change those calculus.
It means that ultimately you are now paying for two systems an equal amount, or you're cutting one in making it significantly worse.
We think that you need to fix the system that the majority of kids get stuck in, rather than wasting money on systems that a lot of kids never got to face.
Like people, there are going to be incredibly lucky children that are going to be adopted on both sides of the house.
The question is what happens to the kids that get left behind, who also occur on both sides of the house?
And we think that what sam does is nothing that helps them.
Our second area of clash is about where the money comes from.
Because we think that given the current political climate and the way that these kinds of budgets often work, it's not the case that we are suddenly allocating money from the military budget to adoption.
Rather, what we think happens is that people are taking money out of state systems and reallocating it down to adoption services.
We think this is incredibly problematic because because it's going to accomplish a twofold system in that like first it precludes any positive change in the state system because it allows individuals to have a false sense of solvency, they're going to decide that if they're funding adoption the state doesn't need as much money in the first place, but second it means the state system is likely to suffer like a fairly large hit, which means that services that are already really bad get even worse.
IE kids in the status quo aren't getting good educations, foster families aren't being screened well enough, all of this stuff gets a lot worse and it gets worse for groups that are already disadvantaged, kids who nobody wants to adopt do like problematic trends in society.
Proud to oppose.