We should abolish eminent domain.
Our model's really simple: basically, we just think it's really not okay for the government to take any property without the consent of the people who currently own it, even when they are providing compensation.
We think the people have to accept the offer.
Like, we think it's really bad that eminent domain allows the government to set a price and then just automatically get to take it, and that's something we want to be counteracting.
We have two main arguments, first on why it is principally wrong for the government to engage what is essentially stealing because, yeah, even if you gave money for it, the fact that it wasn't a consensual interaction means that it is still thievery.
Like, imagine that I saw a house I really liked and I just walked up, gave the person like a hundred thousand dollars in cash, and said the house was mine, we don't think that's okay, because that person never consented to taking that money.
They never wanted it, they never asked for it.
Similarly, if I just walked into someone's house, took like an expensive tablet or something, left like some cash on the on the desk, that's not the way it works.
Like you can't just take people's property, even if you're giving them money.
It's still thieving if that person doesn't consent to it.
So, first, it is not representative of the people when it takes from them.
The state is meant to serve the people under it.
So it's really problematic when it starts taking from them, because it means that it no longer serves the people but rather its own interests.
And oftentimes, these actually happen to be corporate interests, like when the government will seize houses because a like big oil company wants to drive a pipeline through there, and like the government will use eminent domain.
That's the government benefiting that pipeline.
There's no clear way in which that's so good objectively for the people that it's worth hurting some of their citizens.
And we think the fact that it invites these kinds of special interests is really damning for side opposition because they essentially have to explain why it's okay for the government to harm their citizens and take from their citizens for nebulous, arbitrary gains that nobody can actually guarantee will benefit the general populace.
It's also just unclear why the government has a desert claim to any land within a state.
We just wouldn't think it's fair if some large actor could just demand any of our personal belongings for a price they name.
Like, people are owned are owed consistency in their ownership.
Otherwise, it shouldn't be called ownership, in the first place, if the state can just take it.
When someone buys something, you need to honor the understanding that it is theirs.
This is what creates the laws in society that prevent chaos, because we respect that someone can own something, and that makes that item off limit.
And we think what side opposition has to explain is why it's okay for that consistency to be broken, why it's okay to inject that uncertainty and untrustworthiness into our society, like what exactly the large benefit of eminent domain is that it outweighs that risk and that untrustworthiness.
Our second argument is about maintaining trust in the government.
People need to trust and believe the government in order to feel like they should keep following its laws and contributing to its systems.
And when the government does things like take property without consent, it signals to the population that their government is more worried about special interests than the needs and rights of the general populace.
The existence of something like eminent domain is a constant threat of government overreach of the general population which creates a general feeling of ill will among them.
And these kinds of laws also are often most often used against minority groups that don't have the political capital to prevent the government from forcing them into these agreements, which which often takes away one of the few forms of wealth that people can acquire without needing old money in their family, because a lot of the time these are like houses or land that maybe were acquired a couple of years ago for a lot cheaper, but the property value has risen since then.
So when the government comes in and takes it away, you oftentimes end up with people who just can't afford another one, because this was something that was like passed down to a certain extent.
It also just allows the government to devalue property in order to get a hold of land they have no business touching, because they can just offer someone much less than the land is actually worth and prevent anyone from competing with them because of the government.
So we think you should abolish eminent domain.
Proud to propose.