The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit natural gas.
By we we mean the US government, by exploit is that we think that like a significant amount of current resources that are used to buy oil from other countries or used to frack for oil in within the united states we would prefer would be used to exercise efforts to further like take out natural gas and like extract natural gas within the united states domestically.
With that, two main areas of clash, first on whites better for the environment.
Look obviously green technology is the ultimate goal like we would prefer a world in which everybody drove hydrogen cars that like used hydrogen gas to power them and produced water but the problem is that this is a world that is relatively far away and we live with an ever growing need for a different source of energy and one that is preferably cleaner than the current things that we have.
Like at the end of the day, oil is running out and it's probably not the case that hydrogen cars are developed enough for those to become the replacement so in the interim we need something that can be that can like serve us without forcing us to change all of the technology that we have pay like expect the average consumer to pay a lot of money to upgrade to a car that like that that like is experimental vastly in technology.
So I mean emmissions wise it's really important to note that natural gas is significantly less dirty than oil and other kinds of forms of energy that we've been using.
This is just like something that is like a characteristic of the compounds and so we've noticed that like cars that drive using natural gas produce less harmful emissions into the environment and don't contribute to global warming as much.
But it's also more environmentally friendly in terms of efficiency because recognize that like the rate at like the amount of time that you can like use the same gallon of gas also determines how much needs to be produced using methods like fracking that can often be damaging to the environment so if we're able to like use the same gallon for longer for more mileage that's preferable because it means that less has to be extracted per person which is necessarily environmentally friendly.
So we think at the point that natural gas is an also more efficient form of energy that is also preferable.
But our second area of argumentation is about why it's economically positive.
First it's good for the US specifically in that we have for a very long time relied on the middle east to supply to supply our energy needs because we personally did not have enough oil and had more environmental regulations on areas that did have oil and so we couldn't access them ourselves.
The difference here is that we have tons of natural gas and this allows to cut down the dependency on these four nations which is really good because for a really long time we were facing mass amounts of pressure from these countries to ignore their human rights abuses to ignore their antisemitism on the like the idea that we need we need them for gas and we can't afford to have them cut us off.
So once we are allowed to cut down on that dependency we're able to be politically free like maybe we're really tired of saudi arabia mistreating women and punishing people too harshly so now that we don't rely on them for the majority of our energy we're actually capable of expressing that through the use of sanctions or anything else.
We also think that it's like allows us to become an exporter which is something that is really positive in terms of energy because when you become an exporter you to also set the price on things like natural gas especially since very few other countries are able to export it to the same degree as we are because they have less access to it and have less like allocated market so we think it's actually really good when the united states gets to do things like say like look like now by our gas because it necessarily makes us richer but it also just creates a massive amount of jobs domestically and we think this is really important not just because jobs are generally good and we like it when people are able to earn their own money and contribute to the economy but also because of our existing in a world for automation is happening in amazingly high rates the same time more immigration is also happening to peak with refugees coming across borders so we actually it's really important that you're creating jobs that you don't necessarily need to be incredibly educated for but will still be able to provide for you.
For these reasons proud to propose.