We shouldn't subsidize sustainable development.
Government probably talked all about how we need to protect the environment and incentivize good environmental practices but we can do this without putting money into subsidies rather the government can do things like offer tax break or other economic incentives for good behavior.
They can also just simply put laws in place that fine companies who are bad for the environment which would literally like gain the government money rather than spending it or losing out on it.
Like we think that there are multiple alternatives to the government's using taxpayer money and given the circumstances and the amount of money that would be needed in order to actually make a difference, we don't think this is a good expenditure compared to those other policies which would achieve the exact same results if not better.
Two main arguments: first, on monetary trade-offs.
We think that there are simply better things to do with the money.
Tax money comes from the present citizens and so needs to be used to subsidize things that benefit the majority of current citizens because it's money that's been taken from them.
Sustainable development primarily benefits future generations and so shouldn't be the responsibility of the current generation to pay for it and but also there are really real pressing issues that are faced by individuals within this current generation things like healthcare and educational insecurity that hurts people significantly more than environmental issues especially given that we can develop the scientific capacity to deal with those other problems as we go.
We think that the government owes its owes it to their taxpayers to make sure that tax money is actually maximizing social well-being which sustainable development doesn't do.
But our second argument is that this is simply a small step that isn't worth doing.
In order to truly combat global warming or environmental damage there needs to be massive change among every country in the world's government and corporations so that the real actors that are causing the problem stop doing so.
At the end of the day, adding a couple of like wind energy power stations or changing a couple of companies, like the kind of differences that could be made by these tax dollars, simply isn't going to be enough to actually make a dent in overall global warming or climate change or pollution and I think that's the real problem in this kind of debate is that we're offering a one government, couple of companies solution to a world government problem and I think until we get some kind of guarantee that participation will come from other countries as well and until the money exists to make sure that subsidization is done across the board, the united states government should simply focus on other stuff.
A government subsidy will do nothing for climate change but using that money to help individuals and to fund social programs will make a really big difference for the people affected by them and I think just on the scale of like impact that you're making, the impact you have on individual lives will always be higher than the impact you have on pollution or environmental damage and we think that that's what the government should defer to because it's trying to maximize the change it can make with that money and this would be using that money incredibly inefficiently and irresponsibly.
Proud to oppose.