The motion for today's debate is that we should increase international volunteering.
We think this would mostly take place in developing countries insofar as those are the ones that need it most and it's just really unlikely that germany would give a give any kind of care for people coming in to volunteer for them if they're doing okay.
And we think it will also take the form of anything between like people getting formal positions within other states government to someone coming in with an NGO, like amnesty international or any other group like doctors without borders, that do work across across country.
Ways to enforce this it might be like a mandatory x number of years or months volunteering abroad.
We think more likely what would happen is that there would just be a lot of education campaigns as to how volunteering abroad can help you and like a social value on volunteering abroad.
With that three main areas of clash: first on affecting social good.
Developing countries struggle for many reasons: lacks of a lack of resources, manpower, money, too much corruption, and but like a really good thing about this is that volunteers undercut a lot of these problems.
They don't really paid, they often come with their own resources and they can fill a lot of gaps that are hard to find manpower for.
So just boring government jobs or traveling with NGO's that pass up really necessary food and medicines that people would otherwise not have access to.
In this way they also undercut government corruption by providing directly to the individuals who need them most.
We think this can be really helpful in providing for those who can't who can't provide for themselves, who need it more, but also targets young populations that would be doing less important or impactful stuff back home.
We think that a lot of the time individuals after college would just be entering the workforce right away and so we think that it's a good one instead they can go help others and then enter the workforce afterwards.
Like in a choice between going on to your job right away or spending a few months abroad, we think it would be like very good for them to first go help others before they come back and do things for themselves.
We also think that it creates individuals that believe in community values and cooperation which is generally good as like contributors to society.
Our second area of clash is about cultural exposure.
People from different countries tend to live in echo chambers.
They're exposed to one majority culture for their life and they create, and this creates narrow minded individuals that are more likely to believe stereotypes and propaganda because they're never actually exposed to the reality so they just believe whatever their state feeds them.
We think that more international volunteering encourages a cross national pollination.
People learn new ideas and experiences and leave with better opinions of other nations and cultures.
It's a lot harder to straw-man one group of people as lazy or especially violent or specially uneducated if you go and meet them and see their circumstances.
So we think that you actually end up with individuals that think a lot better about other nations and this encourages corporations between different groups, when the stereotypes in those nations can also be disbanded.
Like we think a lot of the time other countries have perceptions of people in western powers etcetera as like a certain type of person that can never be helpful to them and we think it's good when you take away that stereotype.
Our third area of clash is about fulfilling obligations.
Large western states screwed up a lot of smaller less developed states through things like british colonialism and imperialism, US hegemony in trade, US pushing certain countries to specialize in one type of thing because they would buy their product.
A lot of these things really changed the way that countries developed and hindered them a lot.
Within that you help alleviate this and help fulfill some of that obligation that you've created by screwing them over over and over again, by sending over individuals that can now help you develop and help like promote a better world.
So we think insofar as there's like an obligation created by the fact that these larger nations took something from these smaller nations, that has taken them hundreds of years to recover from, we think that you ought to be internationally volunteering.
For these reasons proud to propose.