Don't introduce goal-line tech.
Sam spends a long time talking about how he gets more accurate results that makes the game more fair.
We agree but we don't think that he told you why fairness inherently matters, either other than when he later talks about how people shouldn't get angry as much.
But we think at the end of the day, a lack of fairness is part of what actually attracts individuals to the game in the first place, and other and we think that part of like what that attraction is is the element of humanity and potential for human error.
He actually decreases interest because people now feel like things are boring, and people love to rage about how things are unfair, so without that kind of ability, they're less likely to want to be involved with the sport.
Sam is worried that it takes up too much time to evaluate like goal goals right now, because the refs have to actively turn everything off and like look at a screen for a while, but we just don't think that this is something that people mind very much.
If anything, it's a good time for snacks and conversations with the people that you're watching the game with, but also we just think that this gets outweighed by a lot of the arguments that we make later, specifically because this just doesn't make such a big impact.
Two main arguments, first on the spirit of the game.
Sam pretends that the resultant anger about bad calls or the perception of bad calls is a bad thing, and we just don't think that that is true.
It is a massive part of the sport to have some amount of uncertainty around goals.
Fans like to be able to get riled up and hold their breath, and they also like being able to get angry whether a call was wrong or not.
It's the activity of being able to get loud and angry over a call and find camaraderie within that loudness and anger that matters a lot more than the truth of it.
All goal-line tech does is remove the aspect of uncertainty and prevent fans from being able to enjoy an integral aspect of the sport.
We're always going to value the enjoyment of fans more than the truth of whether the goal was made or not, because the fans are the ones for whom sports are created for in the first place.
Without fan enjoyment, there wouldn't be any football for us to have this argument about, so we should always maximize that enjoyment to maintain the sport's existence.
Our second argument is about how it's an unnecessary expense.
Goal-line tech is expensive and even if large athletic events can afford it, the majority of smaller teams can't.
We think that football should be accessible to people and leagues who don't have money, and what goal-line tech does is it puts a block between professional leagues and smaller goals smaller groups and younger, less rich kids that give groups with money an advantage.
It's those groups that will get to practice with the same technology that they play games with and those groups that will feel like they belong in the stadium that mimics their practices more closely.
This might seem like a small detail, but the cultural significance is is a lot.
Goal-line technology has the potential to make certain teams feel unprepared and less than, even if they aren't in reality.
It also makes referees irrelevant, which we think is a bad thing.
We think that referees are a valuable part of the game.
They add another human element for fans to connect to and rage against and maybe have certain fandoms about.
And at the end of the day, we think that given that the game has lasted for so long and there's some traditional aspect to playing it the way that it is, injecting unnecessary technology doesn't actually serve a purpose.
Proud to oppose.