Don't abandon voter registration.
Our side is fine with making voter registration significantly easier.
We recognize that the right answer is likely in the middle of no voter registration and what we have in the status quo.
But the extreme of getting rid of it entirely is an awful idea.
Tim's solution is using your ID.
We think of this isn't just this just isn't enough because it's easy to fool one person who glances at your ID briefly before moving on to the next person in line.
You literally have high schoolers who can get a hold of fake ideas that can scan and look almost indistinguishable from the real thing.
So when you're in the crunch of going in to vote, when there are long lines behind you the people who are checking ID's have been working since early in the morning are probably exhausted by this point.
We just don't think this is a reliable system for catching fraud.
So insofar as that is true we think there needs to be some kind of voter registration that occurs beforehand to make this process smoother and easier and not something that first, allows voter fraud to get through, but second just makes voting day infinitely less accessible because of the kind of lines that you're going to have to be waiting through and other kinds of things.
With that three main arguments, first on preventing voter fraud.
We need to make sure that our elections are fair.
Otherwise our democracy gets completely devalued.
And recognize that this weighs directly against tim's argument where he says that: " look, this is so undemocratic when you don't allow people to come in to vote. "
But we think that you have to find a balance.
Right?
Like yes, it's bad when individual's aren't coming out to vote, but it's also bad if you have voter fraud or if you have some kind of situation that questions democracy in a way that like lies about the statistics and makes it seem like you have larger voter turnout or a larger political opinion for someone than there is in reality.
There are massive incentives for either political party to facilitate voter fraud as well as for large corporations and oil tycoons.
It means that attempts will happen happen and you have to prevent them from occurring.
If someone is missing out on voter registration as tim says is easy to do, we think that's on them.
Voter registration is very prevalent in society.
We see your parents registering, you see signs in random places about voting, it's all over social media at this point.
The state needs to balance its other obligation with its obligations to voter registration.
As long as registration isn't overly complex we don't think the state is being anti democratic or exclusionary.
Our second argument is about facilitating data connection collection.
We think that it's actually really important that we get this separate database that picks up on all of this voter registration data.
Its important to tie ID numbers to the vote to make sure that people aren't fabricating ID numbers and to exclude those who carry non-citizen ID's.
We need to take the next step and link that to political preference as well and so actually when you're able to collect this kind of data through voter registration you have a lot easier time doing voter research.
Like tying demographics of voting tendencies, figuring out where there are higher rates of voter apathy and low voter turnout.
And this research research is fundamental to determining how to fix problems with different political parties and taking action to do things like fix lower voter turnout.
Our third argument is about backlash.
Voter registration makes people feel safe.
Without it it's really easy to blame voter fraud when the outcome of the election isn't what you wanted to be or something similar.
Even if that's not what happened in reality the fact that you're going to have people who blame it on that and say that that's what happened is enough to how damaging impacts already.
And this alone is more important than tim's argument about making politics more accessible because we think that backlash takes the form of making the voting process murky in other ways or electing extreme politicians who will take hard line stances on immigration and similar topics that are often tied to voter fraud.
So for these reasons proud to oppose.