Don't ban casinos.
We agree that there are really toxic parts of casinos but we don't think it is the government's job to ban it.
If anything, we think that it is true when james says the government has to take action to ensure that these contracts are fair but that doesn't have to happen through banning casinos entirely rather we think it is the government's job to inform people of those realistic risks by releasing statistic on statistics on the odds you have of winning at casinos and making information about gambling addiction easily accessible.
Insofar as casino use can be discouraged without an entire ban, we think you should defer to less government intervention and a maximization of freedom.
In the same way that we're not doing things like banning cigarettes but instead putting a lot of money into running a realistic advertisement about their impacts, we think that we can treat casinos in a similar manner.
The anti-cigarette campaigns worked.
There are very few people who are smoking in the status quo compared to a situation where only half a century ago we had almost the entire population addicted to cigarettes.
So insofar as we know these kinds of changes are possible without limiting individual freedom, we should always defer to that.
Two main arguments: first, on personal freedom and choice.
We don't think the government can just ban whatever it decides is a societal bad or good.
You have to have standards to make sure that the government isn't prioritizing efficiency above individual and societal freedom.
This is really important because countries are made up of people, not simply governmental institutions and what that means is that we have to care about those individual needs more than we care about the needs of the overall institution and we have to care about those needs before we care about the overall population because it is those individual needs that make up the long term overall population.
Governments can't just ban things because they're bad for the individual.
Individuals know their own context best and can choose to do something that is bad for them because they feel like the benefits they accrue outweigh the harms.
This is why we don't ban things like alcohol and cigarettes because even though we know they're objectively bad for the individual like scientifically proven so, we know that the individual person can decide that they personally get more benefit out of these things.
Like sure, cigarettes may be bad for me but they really calm me down when I'm stressed out and they really help me regularly my appetite.
These are maybe things that someone relies on much more than they rely on things like long term lung cancer or maybe they think they can mitigate those things later.
So we think that that is that person's right to do and the government shouldn't infringe on it.
For casinos this means that people can rationalize using a small amount of money because they're having fun with friends or like the games or letting loose for a weekend.
James says that we're leading to a world with less with less gambling.
Like no, we don't think that's true, right?
We think that what happens then is that gambling movies online or to like basement games between friends.
Like people are going to find ways to gamble either way, it's just a question of what mode they use to do so.
We'd rather have gambling with more legal oversight and restrictions because then you can do things like apply heavy taxes or do things like take like parts of winnings and put them into charities, like a lot of good things that we do in the status quo.
Our second argument is about the pragmatic good of casinos.
James says they're bad for the communities that host them and we just don't think this is true, right?
We think this is a myth that is propagated by overly religious people who worry about prostitutes and drugs but in reality, even if you eat at the casino or stay at their hotel the majority of the time people will get bored and will do something outside of that casino at least a little bit but also spend time at other shops or establishments nearby.
It also provides jobs for people to need them.
James tries to pretend these are dead end jobs but they're not dead end for someone who isn't getting a college education or anything else.
Like for a lot of people it's better than having no job.
We also think that a lot of the time the taxes from casinos go toward social spending which is good and often is a means for indigenous communities to prop themselves up economically.
Proud to oppose.