Don't increase ecotourism.
Two main areas of clash, first ony why it is inherently unsustainable.
When there is a large influx of capital people change jobs to like go along with that influx.
We see a lot of of the time with like large sporting events and large sporting games like in brazil when they started building olympic stadiums and hotels a large part of the working population switched to jobs within that sector.
We saw in greece when they built a completely tourism based economy that the majority of working individuals in greece were in some way involved in that tourism economy whether it was through supplying of goods that went to tourists, actually like being the faculty within hotels and resorts, or any other type of activity tangentially involved.
We think that this is really bad because these areas are inherently unsustainable as environmental goods.
First it's bad because these areas are always going to be targeted for poaching so I think that even if there is a demand to look at silver backed gorillas there's also a demand to kill those silver backed gorillas and have there fur on your mantle or whatever but also because changes in the weather like changes like one crisis anything necessarily changes that environment and could make it less desirable when it collapsed and the problem is that at the risk of it collapsing when it collapses it collapses the entire economy which makes it a pretty big risk.
When a large portion of your GDP depends on twenty gorillas and those gorillas might die you probably don't want that to become the like only thing that matters in terms of the continued existence and solvency of your country.
It's also just not a solvent later on an economy in other ways.
Recognize that it caps the economy out if your primary source of income is tourism because you have limited growth.
As other countries develop, other tourism locations become more popular.
All of this starts to drain the economy because you've already input so much on it but it doesn't retain the same kind of value that it started with because it has more competition elsewhere.
It's also bad when all the people providing services to the west because it means that your own people aren't developing.
Recognize that those that consume ecotourism are vastly like western tourists who come in from like from like areas that have very little trees to like look at your own trees basically right look they're not people who are particularly respectful of your culture but they're also not people who are asking you to be more than servants to them.
We think that not only does this further a cultural imperialism in which countries that are non-western are forced to bow down to western countries but it also just means that your own people are not doing things like innovating or like creating revolutions in terms of industry and things like that.
But our second area of clash is how it's bad to put value on nature in terms of dollars.
Recognize that when you start seeing these animals and the environment in terms of revenue it means you're not going to put money into non-revenue creating nature.
This misses the nuance of ecosystems and hurts them over all because what happens is that I'm willing to put money into the silver backed gorilla because it looks really pretty but maybe the thing that the silver backed gorilla preys on I don't know the like something something rat is also endangered but because it isn't going to make money because no one wants to look at a rat, no one actually protects it.
This destroys entire ecosystems and makes it like things that you can never get back essentially.
But it also just doesn't value like diversity and animals and nature for the sake of diversity in animals and nature and only values them for how much money they can bring in, it also means that nature will always get bulldozed for companies that show profit potential because you turn all of these kinds of interactions into a waiting game of which one is going to earn you more.
We think that what they're doing is creating a fundamental shift in the mindset of society that says that from now on we are going to value these animals and value this nature on the basis of how much it costs and like how much will bring in which means that you're always going to bulldoze that like park because it's the only thing you're going to weigh is the money that it can bring in.
It also just means that you're going to have way more touristy like attractions built next to these environments which is first bad for individuals like recognize these areas aren't very safe the majority of the time because necessarily wild but also it's really bad for the environment because it's going much more likely to pollute those areas.
For these reasons proud to oppose.