The motion for today's debate is that we should end development aid.
By we we mean the united states.
We think it's still fine to have other forms of aid, like often there is tied aid or there's military aid, we're fine with that, we just think that funds earmarked for development are irresponsible and shouldn't occur.
Two main areas of clash, first on creating dependency.
Because recognize the problem with development aid is that it is money going into a system that basically says like use this for development, but doesn't actually establish a source by which they can replace that revenue into the long term.
So like the hope is that maybe they will develop enough that they are developing new spheres of commerce or things, the problems is this is very rarely the way that it works.
Like money earmarked for development often goes to like very infrastructure based things, it doesn't really attract new business or create new business, or goes into like social health care.
And the problem with this is that it means you require that money to continue in the form of aid.
We think this is actually really bad for the countries that require development aid because it means that when we get into a sticky political situation, like I don't know trump gets elected and he really doesn't believe in helping other countries with our money, that money can get cut off but there isn't a replacement, and they have no way of coping with that.
So we think that even if it is something that is difficult, we think that a more stable country is ultimately achieved if they figure out streams of revenue and stability on their own.
Like we think the problem is that there are like there are two issues here.
First, we don't think that the united states should carry on a like consistent long term obligation to keep doling out money, but second, we just think it's really bad for these countries when they find themselves in situations where the money is gone but the need is still there, and they haven't developed any alternative sources of revenue.
It's also just bad for their economy because it allows the economy to stagnate, there's not actually an impetus to change or develop in any meaningful way, in that like if you have this money coming in, you might as well just like continue doing other things in the meantime.
So we think what happens also on their side of the house is that rather than putting money into like developing new sectors of commerce etcetera, they put it into the easiest stuff that can satisfy the people the fastest so they can stay in office, like political incentives lined up, and then they don't have anything when that money ends.
We also think that there are a lot of semi-despotic regimes in a lot of these areas, like the venezuelan like prime minister, or like a lot of the smaller countries where even though it's like not full on despotic regime, it's a lot of corruption going on, so we think that this money doesn't get utilized efficiently either, and we think that that's also a problem.
Our second area of clash is about prioritizing your own population.
Recognize that the government has a hierarchy of obligation.
IE, you have your people first, and we think that the reason for this is incredibly intuitive.
Insofar as these are the people who monetarily pay their taxes to you, insofar as these are the people who elect like positions to office, like insofar as all of that is going on, these are the people who you serve first.
And we think that this also has an alternative way of enforcement, and that these are also the people who can usurp you if they feel like they're not putting them first often enough, so this obligation works in both directions.
So this obligation just like exists, like you ought put your people first because of all the things they do, but if you don't, then the people have a check on you as well.
And we think that even if they like comparatively there are people in the united states who suffer and their suffering is less than other countries, it is still the case that there are many people in the united states who don't have homes, who don't have jobs, who don't have like basic needs fulfilled, and we think that it is the job of the united states government to solve those problems first, before they go on to solve other countries' problems.
This is both because it is an obligation, but also because if you are able to get your country to function at optimal, then you are also able to produce more economically, so you are able to do things like provide aid in other ways to other countries later.
Proud to propose.