Single-sex schools should be banned.
Two main areas of clash: the first on contact theory and the relationship between schooling and the real world.
We think that fundamentally school is meant to prepare you for the future and reality insofar as it teaches you workable skills that allow you to be released into the real world and function there.
But we think the problem here is the future and reality is mixed gender.
There is never a world in which boys coming from a single-sex school are only ever going to come in contact with men with the rest of their lives.
Like once you're released into the real world, it's very much one in which you interact with a multitude of genders, and we think that kids need to learn to deal with and communicate with other genders from an early age in order to set the basework that later allows them to live meaningful lives in the mixtures.
We think that it's bad, thus, to present them with a one-sided view of the world that only lets them look at it through this like lens of being from a single-gender background.
Social scenting is really real in that if you spend your entire life only learning to communicate with a specific demographic, you don't know how to speak to other people from different groups, and you're way more likely to draw from stereotypes or not ascribe equal value to the individual with whom you're dealing with.
I think a lot of the time we see this like actualized in all-male schools, where it's really easy to perpetuate the " angry period " trope or the " manic pixie dream girl " trope, because there isn't actually anyone there to correct or disprove you.
You live in an echo chamber of teenage boys who always tell you you're right, and you're barraged by the media with these ideas that like women are there to be objectified and like serve you and things.
And as such, like given no real female models that exist in your same sphere, you don't actually imagine them as individuals that need the same like attention or worth or deserve the same like credence.
And we think the problem is that these people grow up and then go into the real world.
Then they become policymakers, they become professionals who work with women and head the policies that affect them, and we don't think you can be truly empathetic to someone until you like recognize what their struggle actually is.
We think it's infinitely harder for a boy from a single-sex background to ever understand why women might need something like free tampons or pads given that, in their mind, they conceptualize periods in a very one-sided view, uninfluenced by a woman.
Our second area of clash is about single-sex schools aiding in the propagation of problematic norms.
I really want to focus on all-male schools here because I think they become the biggest perpetrator in some really problematic ways.
First, I wanna talk about misogyny.
We already told you why it's easier to believe stereotypes when you're surrounded by people all of your own background and gender, but we also thinks it become think it becomes infinitely easier to objectify women when your only model for this are the media that barrages you in the way that other boys are talking to you about it.
Like we think at the point that young men are constantly like given advertisements in which women are object, like watching porn in which women's in which women are like serving men, we don't think that it's good to then put them back with teenage boys where they're all discussing the same thing, and they have the same perception of that situation.
These echo chambers are really toxic.
Like just think about the situation with trump and the locker room talk in which it's this is the way in which they like justify their problematic behavior, where they're like, " oh, but at least there's no women around. "
We also think that these kind of schools become the worst growth for toxic masculinity.
Like boys are taught to compete with each other infinitely more when every single person is your competition, every single person is a boy.
Like you end up in all-male environments so there's never actually a break from them.
There're usually masculine teachers who like put their own view of who you ought be on you, and more than this, a lot of the time both like any like single-gender school tends to be infinitely harsher in terms of bullying and sexual assault.
Like a lot of the times, children use these kinds of taboo subjects to exploit each other's weaknesses and be mean.
We also think it's just really bad for any minority gender or sexuality group student, because you're stuck in this homogeneous area where there's an expectation of you to present yourself in a certain way and so, there's never actually a world in which you feel like you can break out or come out comfortably.
For these reasons, proud to propose.