We should abolish trade barriers.
We mean by this is that we would remove any kind of barrier to trade as like exactly as it sounds basically.
If you have very high import or export taxes, we would try to make those as low as possible.
We would remove any kind of trade sanctions, such as what was happening between cuba and the united states for a very long time.
We basically want free trade as much as possible between every country as possible.
Two main arguments, first on supporting the free market.
We think that competition on the international level oftentimes is good in an objective sense, regardless of what the outcomes are.
Because on an intuitive level, less trade barriers just mean that you are going to sell more.
More in depth on this, we think that oftentimes there's a fear that if you want to like particularly politically punish a country, or if you're worried about them outcompeting you, it's this fear that like you have to do things, like have really high import taxes in order to protect your country personally.
But we think the problem is that these kinds of behaviors often get mimicked, right?
Like we think that when one country starts to put up trade barriers because it's trying to protect their domestic product, but it continues to export mass amounts of those products, other countries get a little bit scared by this, and they oftentimes react in similar manners.
But we think that oftentimes that sale is always going to matter more than the amount of money you might make off of the import or export taxes, and is always going to be better economically than any kind of political preference for a certain country it might look politically.
We also think that if it is the case that another country can outcompete you, as is the fear by a lot of countries that protect their domestic market by having like high trade barriers, we think that that that is just a signal to your economy that there are countries out there that can do this more efficiently, which means you can switch to buying from them oftentimes for a price that is cheaper than what you are using to grow it in the first place.
It also signals to you that you can switch and move your labor to something that you're more competitive in.
We see this a lot with first world countries in the status quo, where they're switching from manufacturing to things like research and development, because they're recognizing that manufacturing is just vastly more competitive in more developing countries that have less labor laws and less restrictions on their corporations.
And we think this is a net positive move, we think that it actually works in a very symbiotic matter, where those developing countries can now have more of like economic edge in their particular field, but you as a more developed country can develop your economy even further and grow even more developed.
So we think that's always positive.
But we also think that this impacts the way that corporations make decisions.
Because we think that high trade barriers are essentially a signal of risk to the corporations that are considering investing or placing their companies within your countries.
This is why we often see manufacturing companies go to those developing countries in the first place, because they have really low trade barriers and really low regulations inside.
And we think it's actually really bad because if you're a country that uses a lot of trade barriers, which happens to be a lot of nations, that limits which which corporations are going to be willing to be within your country, which we think is very problematic for you.
But it also limits the interactions that corporations can have.
Like if I'm an american corporation and there are sanctions in cuba, that necessarily prevents me and might work as a reason that I might want to leave and do this in another area.
Our second argument is about creating cooperation.
No one wants to go to war with their trade partners because once a trade relationship is established, doing something that jeopardizes it can harm your citizens.
And we think what happens right in the status quo is that your infinitely more likely to start conflict if you aren't trading with that country, because you know that you're not going to have to be afraid of like the trade stopping and like the suffering that your economy might get from that.
We think that we want individuals to be more wary of these kinds of situations.
And what we mean by this specifically is that we think that having that extra step of " oh, I know I'm trading with this person, maybe I'll go start a compromise or start some kind of like send an ambassador there and we'll talk about it instead ", is a positive way of using trade to actually foster cooperation between countries.
Proud to propose.