Don't end water fluoridation.
Tim spends a while talking about government legitimacy.
And it might be true that actions need to be democratically taken, but we don't think it's the case that this means that people have to have an individual voice and actual policy.
Rather, we think the reason that we are democratic, as in representatively democratic and not an absolute democracy, is because we recognize that you have to sacrifice some amount of democracy in order to maintain efficacy and to make up for the fact that when you have large populations of people that simply weren't possible in the like long history, where maybe greece had a small enough population to have an absolute democracy, in the status quo, individuals simply do not have the time or the interest to keep up on policy enough to even know what is best for them.
So, insofar as we democratically elect our representatives with the understanding that they will then go on to act in our best interest, and we elected them because we trusted them, we think it is thus democratic that any policies they pass, unless they later get recalled because democracy was so upset about it, are fine and aren't, on a principled level, undemocratic or problematic.
Our entire democracy is based on people understanding that the average person doesn't necessarily know what is best for them scientifically or politically, so they choose people who are more informed, understanding that even if the policy is unpopular, the person has a reason for choosing it.
Two main arguments in favor of fluoridation, the first is that it is harmless.
First, we think that people do still have a choice.
So when tim waxes poetically about how you're taking away the ability of people to choose whether their water is fluoridated or not, it is the case that you can buy unfluoridated water at any kind of store that you go into.
However, it is not the case that you can buy fluoridated water at any store, only that you can get the unfluoridated version.
So we think that actually it is their side of the house that removes options from individuals, because you remove the option to get fluoridated water at all.
But also, by tim's reasoning, all laws are undemocratic, because we don't reexamine them every time a new generation are born.
Like, of course, there are decisions that are made in the past that perhaps are less popular with the current voting populace, but that doesn't mean that we change them if there's no real uproar, which there hasn't been for fluoridation.
Fluoridation doesn't hurt anyone, the science is very concrete, and the only person the only people who tend not to want fluoridation are rich, very very entitled and kind of privileged soccer moms who have enough money to pay for their own private water if that's what they'd prefer.
We think that what matters in this round is those who are poor and can't afford regular teeth care, who do appreciate fluoridation.
Our second argument is about it being beneficial to society.
We think this is objectively true.
Like tim pretends that fluoridation is this unnecessary thing, and people can just take care of their teeth independently, but this is a misunderstanding of how much effort actually goes into regular care of like your teeth and oral health.
Like, first, we think that when something goes wrong in your mouth, this is something that translates to the entire rest of the human body.
Like having a cavity also instantly affects your hearing and how much your head hurts over time, and it can also do things like transfer bacteria into your bloodstream.
And we also just think that oral health care is really expensive.
Like many people don't have health insurance, and it's really hard to go through for things like regular cleanings or even take care of cavities once they start.
So we think this is actually a really good preventative measure because it takes care of the fact that for a lot of people, people aren't brushing their teeth correctly.
They're not going to the dentist regularly enough.
And even though fluoridation won't solve all of that, it is a good step in the proper direction of at least having some kind of preventative cure.
It would be like if we could have antioxidants in all of our water.
That would probably be a good thing, even if it is not something we necessarily ask for, because regular antioxidants tend to be a little bit expensive and maybe not something that the average person thinks about.
So we think that, if anything, this is just another way for the government to take care of their population.
Proud to oppose.