We shouldn't subsidize daycare.
Government probably talked about how productive parents could be if they didn't have to worry about daycare.
But it's unclear to me why the government should be encouraging people to have children in a time of overpopulation anyway or why the solution is a broad policy instead of looking for ways to help parents who are in need and also part of a more vulnerable group intersectional.
Because I think the massive problem with these broad policies is that it doesn't matter if you're someone who would be able to afford daycare or has avenues by which daycare could occur.
When we subsidize daycare broadly, those benefits go to everyone.
They're not need-based or tested and I think that's actually really important because I think that at the point that we are using taxpayer money to benefit someone other than that taxpayer, we have to make sure that we're actually solving for some kind of inequality.
So your money shouldn't be benefiting people who might be even better-off than you are just because they fit into a particular like category of human that isn't intrinsically disadvantaged.
And this brings us to our first argument which is that it's not the government responsibility to subsidize daycare in the first place.
People choose to have children.
The government doesn't force it on them and since people can just easily choose not to have a kid at a time when they can't afford it, it's really unclear why the government should be paying for something that is ultimately personal responsibility.
Like we think at the end of the day, the reason the government subsidizes in the first place is to provide in terms of social services things that are guaranteed rights or solution to inequalities that are not the fault of the individuals in those situations.
So guaranteed rights would be things like education.
There's like a discussion of whether healthcare should be one of those things, food stamps and the things that are affecting the things that people can't control would be like poverty where this isn't something that you can reasonably expect to take yourself out of when it's been inter-generational or race where this is kind of like a minority status that's been forced on you by your birth and not by something you control and parenting is the opposite of that.
Having a child is fully consensual.
Like even when you first get pregnant there are ways to like cut that pregnancy short and we think the fact that this is someone who chose to get pregnant, chose to follow through on that pregnancy even if it was initially an accident this is someone who doesn't deserve to be receiving government services for those actions because it's ultimately the fault of that same individual.
So given that things like having a child is completely controllable by the individuals involved, this would be like saying the government should pay for people's pets.
Like just don't get a pet and there are more important things that the government should be paying for that help more people in a more meaningful way which brings us to our second independent argument which is about monetary trade-offs.
When the government spends on things that don't support when the government spends on one thing it necessarily means they can't spend on another.
Subsidies specifically come out of tax money which means it should be used in ways that benefit those taxpayers or at least benefit people who are worse off than those taxpayers and basically what we're saying is that the government should be maximizing utility when using tax dollars and it has an obligation to the people that took the money from in the first place to make sure it does so.
Parents make up a really specific part of the population and subsidizing daycare broadly doesn't even distinguish between poor versus rich parents which means plenty of them are people who don't even need this money.
We should instead pay for things that affect larger populations of individuals than just those who have children or things that we've already agreed are basic rights of individuals that aren't fully fulfilled right now.
So things like the fact that there are massive asymmetries in information across the united states in terms of education and public access to education, or the fact that there are people who aren't getting healthcare or shelter, these are more pressing issues that the government should account for.
Proud to oppose.