The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the monarchy.
By monarchy we mean any monarchy in the world, so including the british monarchy but also not limited to that.
So the saudi arabian monarchy we would also replace a democracy.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why democracy is good.
First we want to explain why the only just government is one in which there is some sort of agreement between the people and the government that allow for people to elect their representation.
This is because in order to justify taking away someone's rights, which is exactly what a government does when it limits a person's mobility by borders, when it takes parts of their paychecks away through taxes, they must consent to it.
But this never occurs in a monarchy because people never get the ability to say, you are who I want to be my leader, rather whoever becomes the next leader of the nation is whoever is next in line for the monarchy usually by blood.
But even if you don't buy the principle, we think that there is a pragmatic benefit to having a democracy.
We think that when you have a more stable or that that a more stable and less violent society occurs when people feel engaged and represented by their democracy.
This is because if I feel like my government is doing what I want them to do, or if I feel like I had a say in that government, I'm much less likely to feel like I have to fight against it.
More than this though, we think that even if people are discontent in a democracy with their representation, they are much less likely to use violent tactics then in a situation where people are discontent with their monarchy.
This is because in a democracy you feel like there are avenues by which you can reach out to the people you elected by virtue of the fact that you had a say in their election in the first place.
So maybe I am unhappy with my current government, but I don't feel trapped because I know that I'll be able to vote for a new one or I'll be able to write an email.
As such in democracies, people are much more likely to opt for for peaceful protests than in than in monarchies where, because people feel trapped and never get a say in who the new leader is, they're much more likely to use violent tactics to fight back and show their discontent.
Our secondary of clash has to do with how the corrupt systems of monarchies cycle.
First, recognize that monarchies encourage collaboration between the king and whoever the upper classes are.
This happens because if in situations where you where kings want to maintain power, which happens essentially always given that power given that the desire to maintain power corrupts and people tend to like to keep fancy clothing or fancy like residences, kings like palaces and if they're no longer kings they don't get to keep them.
Or even if they're mobilized by noble causes so they think they'd be the best for them, the best way to keep that power is by insuring that you have strong allies and given that people with a lot of money have the most power in society, they oftentimes opt for that.
This essentially oppresses those of the lower class though because now it becomes the economic incentive of the upper class to maintain their money which means they can't allow it to trickle down to lower classes because it would mean losing some of that.
But even if but even if you even if you don't buy that and think that the majority of monarchies are made up of by noble kings and just kings who are not going to corrupt themselves, the problem is that you can never predict who the future is going to be.
Without a system in place to transfer power democratically you're still going to have situations in which maybe this king was a nice guy but you don't know what their son is going to be and more than that, you don't know what the son after that is going to be.
So at the point that this system essentially, even if it begins noble, oftentimes leaks into corruption, we think you ought defer to a system that puts a stop in a block in place and says let's revamp this every few years, let's have a democracy.
For these reasons proud to propose.