We should introduce a pollution tax.
As a model I think keep in mind that we are doing this on corporations that breach a certain size I don't think it's the case that with a pollution tax we are attempting to target small businesses or mom and pop shops but once you reach a certain density the tax will be staggered to the amount of carbon output that you as a corporation or factory have.
Three main areas of or two main areas of clash, first on creating accountability.
Recognize that currently companies don't have any of the cost of pollution in terms of their own internalization.
So if I'm a corporation that lets out enough carbon to create the smog that covers japan it doesn't matter to me because there's no world in which that affects me.
It only affects the individuals who have to breathe that in and the cities that are maligned by that smog.
We think it is important for those companies to start finally start feeling the burn of what they have done to the planet but also create a world in which there is incentive for change and we think the only way to do that is to do things like input a carbon tax because recognize that if there's one thing that companies understand it is money and what hurts their profit margin and we think that there are two ways that interact together to force companies to change their behavior or at least maintain accountability when it comes to this carbon tax ie fiscally just the fact that you have to pay money and we think that the money would be quite a lot in order to overcome the fact that some companies can simply afford to buy these kinds of costs.
What this means is that either they have to bite that cost and just have less profit which they oftentimes dislike or they're going to have to pass this cost onto consumers which necessarily creates a world in which consumers are less likely to buy your product for two reasons.
First because it now costs more so maybe they can't afford it anymore or maybe there are other competitors out there providing at a cheaper price because they are paying less carbon tax, but second we think a lot of people especially in the current world are growing more and more ideological when it comes to the way that we treat our planet.
So we think knowing that there's a carbon tax and knowing that this is a company that has to pay a lot of it is enough to discourage a fairly large portion of the population that could still afford the product from having to buy it.
But I think this is something that is a meaningful incentive to change behavior which leads us to our second area of clash which is about decreasing pollution into the long term.
Companies don't want to decrease productivity so they have to find a way to decrease their carbon output without decreasing how much product they're able to put out.
This means that they are likely to do things like buy green technology.
These things are one-time purchases that yes tend to be incredibly expensive and require some amount of shit in terms of efficiency which is why companies don't do it in the status quo, it's simply cheaper for them to continue their previous behavior but when you hit with something like the carbon tax then it stops being then that cost starts being lower than the cost that you are paying on a yearly basis so doing something like applying filters once every four years or so or changing your production so that you are using not fossil fuels but rather sunlight or something similar which would be even cheaper because it would be a one-time change is something that a company is infinitely more likely to do.
This is probably the best outcome possible because it requires the long term depletion in carbon output that we are looking for because companies are structurally changing the way that they behave which structurally and into the long term changes how much carbon they are producing and what their impact on the environment is.
But it also has a really nice side effect in that once you are able to see that green technology is being invested in green technology as a market starts to grow.
There's a problem in the status quo where green tech is seen as risky because the fossil fuel companies hold so much power both over the government and over the global markets but when you have things like large amounts of companies investing in green tech it signals that this is something that is desired which means you are more likely to have more research and development into these technologies, lowering the cost barrier for everyday individuals and smaller companies to acquire it.
We think that's net good.
Proud to propose.