Don't adopt the metric system.
First, recognize that drew's main argument, the idea that it affects international cooperation, is absolute nonsense, because specialized americans are really good at switching between the two systems.
And, moreover, since all of those anecdotes he lists about how we had miscommunications with scientists from other countries, american engineers and scientists have switched entirely using the metric system when they do their own measurements and innovation.
Like you're never going to see something measured in inches in engineering.
You're never going to see something measured in liters in chemistry because these kinds of things have long been converted into the metric system already given the fact the united states recognized that it was impacting international collaboration in the science fields.
Understanding that, two main areas of argumentation: first, on why it is unnecessary and causes a lot of confusion.
Technology can easily convert between the metric system and the imperial system when those kinds of things even come up.
While it may have been true in the past that the english system was actively detrimental due to how often conversions were necessary, at this point we have enough technology and enough separation between spaces that the need for the metric system and those that need the american system is not an issue.
We think that at the end of the day, there are going to be spaces that use the metric system, like engineering and hard sciences, as I mentioned, and there are going to be spaces that use the american system like the rest of our everyday lives, how our gas is measured, how our milk is measured, the way our temperature is measured at the end of the day.
And because those things are so far away from each other, and because they're intersection can be solved by opening up your iphone and looking up the conversion on google, we don't think this is necessary at all.
And since the switch is so unnecessary, we value the confusion that it would create even more.
There is the real reason this is the real reason that it's not a matter of just switching.
People in science, engineering, and other fields that have international collaboration and application of measurements are already using the metric system in the status quo, and high schoolers, who are taking those specialized classes, are also learning the metric system.
But for the average american who doesn't need the specialized information, switching to the metric system will disrupt a significant portion of their everyday life.
Every application for everyday life that currently uses the english system will need to change, from buying milk, gas, measuring the temperature, weighing something out, these are all things that people have already created schemas and expectations for.
There is no reason to destabilize the american population this way given that we can already use the metric system when we need to.
Drew makes an argument about how it's easier for children to learn, but this just gets outweighed by all of the people who have already learned and will now have to convert to an entirely new system while they're in their middle ages and so on.
We also think that it's really obvious that children are capable of learning it given that we've been with this system for so long.
So we think the difference that it makes to kids is marginal at most.
Our second argument is about how switching over would be really expensive.
Having to change the measurements on all package products is a really big deal because this includes food, housing lots, temperature, mileage and speed signs, vehicle production and the way that you write down the gas information.
This is literally millions of billions of dollars to do this, and this doesn't even touch on the educational sphere where you're going to have to change out all of the textbooks and current educational material.
This is also independently millions of dollars worth of changes, especially given the high price of textbooks and and educational materials in general.
The burden is also likely to fall on individual schools and teachers given how hostile the current government administration is towards education spending.
This means that private schools and rich public schools will likely be able to make the shift, but poorer public schools in areas are going to be stuck with the same materials as before.
This will unsync much of the public education system within the united states.
Proud to oppose.