The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
Important thing to know, we think that you can still have single occupancy bathrooms that anyone can use of any gender, you just can't have multiple toilet bathrooms that are labeled unisex rather than labeled male and female in terms of sex, which is I think like the status quo essentially, where you can have like both gender or like all genders, both sexes, like single occupancy bathrooms that can lock like have a door and lock, but you but most institutions don't really have like large multi-stall bathrooms that are unisex.
Two main areas of clash, first I'm creating safe spaces.
Recognize that there are very few places in public where someone, but especially women, can get away from the opposite gender.
The majority of the world is unisex and specifically male dominated, and we think that it's really important for women to know that there is somewhere to go when they are uncomfortable or exhausted.
We think that this makes it that having these two separate bathrooms makes it really easy for female friends to check in on others if there's harassment or some emotional issue.
Like we think the example of women going to the bathroom together illustrates this idea that a lot of the time women need to be able to get to a space where they can either communicate about the situation in private without anyone else listening, or where they're able to just be like hi, I am here for you, if you are in an uncomfortable situation of any sort.
Like we think the stereotype exists for a reason, but it's not because women are weird or finicky as men like to believe, rather it's because women are faced with a myriad of incredibly dangerous personal obstacles in their everyday life, and the way in which they cope with it is by creating solidarity with other women, and going to spaces wherein men cannot reach them.
And we think that that's currently something that bathrooms provide, they stop providing when they become unisex.
The other issue here is that we think that if you've had past traumatic experiences, like people who are survivors of either physical or sexual abuse can genuinely feel incredibly uncomfortable performing actions that are so private, such as using the bathroom, around people of the opposite gender, or like hearing them can be really problematic.
We believe that there's a reason that a lot of bathrooms will have the like will have the advertisements for like specific helplines up on the walls, or like a lot of like safe space rhetoric goes around goes on around them.
Because we think that it's really hard for survivors already to find spaces they can rely on within like general society, and we think that what the bathroom does is it provides somewhere where you can go reliably and know that no one is going to be able to follow you, if suddenly you feel really trapped or if you like someone is coming after you, that's somewhere where there's like a social stigma against it occurring, then you feel more safe reaching out.
Even if it's just like a phone call to the number that's on the wall or something like that, and we think that it's actually incredibly important.
Our second area of clash is about about efficiency.
Recognize that there are like just like having bathroom split based on sex is just a more efficient way to have bathrooms in the first place.
We think that first we actually want to discuss urinals really briefly.
First they are more cost, speed, and eco-friendly, but it only ever makes sense to have urinals in all-male bathrooms because it's not something that a woman could ever be able to use, given a lack of or like a woman by sex, not necessarily by gender, would even be able to use due to lack of penis.
And since that's not an efficient use of space in a unisex bathroom, that's not something we'd ever see.
But like women's bathrooms already constantly have longer lines than male equivalents, so we think that adding men to that equation doesn't actually help the situation in any way.
We think that what happens on their side of the house is that unisex bathrooms are just an excuse for new buildings not to include two sets of bathrooms, rather they can just have one and use half of the space and half of the money and they say oh look, it's unisex so it's fine.
And we think that insofar as it's always preferable to have large amounts of quantity even if it's not the most politically liberal kind of thing, then we prefer that world.
Proud to propose.