The motion for today's debate is that private universities should be banned.
What we mean by this is that any universities that are currently private would either be disbanded or forced to go public in that they would be teaching government funding from government funding, and any kind of large donations coming in would also be split between all universities.
Two main areas of clash, the first on education as a facilitative right.
Because we tell you at the point that it is difficult for me to get a job or function within a society that fundamentally undervalues those and looks down upon those who either did not receive an education or come from lower classes and are less educated, then the then then necessarily education becomes a right by which I am able to access other rights.
At the point that in order to access rights that everyone agrees on, such as the right to life, the right to freedom of speech, I first need to be educated.
We tell you that it is also a fundamental right and ought be treated as such.
But also, at the point that the type of education you get determines your future opportunities, for example, if I go to harvard as compared to someone who goes to a suny, it is easier for me to get a better job than that other person.
We think this also makes it much more fundamental, to the point that everyone ought have equal access to it.
As with any right, we think it's a problem when it isn't applied equally.
We'd say that if I was taken into a room and shut the door and locked behind me, even though I can yell at the walls all I want, I'm still not being given my right to free speech equally, as compared to others, and we we would consider this a rights violation.
We think it's a problem that the type of college I go to is vastly determined by income and my family name rather than my actual accomplishments or my ability to learn.
We think it's even a worse problem when that college defines my opportunities and my future, because we don't think it's the case that harvard kids are just smarter, we think rather it's the case that harvard kids come from backgrounds that have more money, come from private schools that gave them better standardized testing prep, and have more opportunities when they get to harvard in the first place, because harvard gets more funding.
So even though suny kids are just as intelligent, suny schools just don't have the money to offer the same level of professors, offer the same level of internships at other places, have the same networking with large corporations.
This means there is a fundamental inequality of access.
Our second main area of clash is so so basically what we're saying in this first part is that equalizing our options, by making sure that everyone goes into the same types of schools with the same funding, means equalizing the playing field into the long-term for these people when they look for jobs.
Our second main area of clash is about how we make public universities better.
We tell you that, now, the same large donors that were going to invest in harvard or yale, or any private universities that their grandchildren happen to go to, are going to invest the same money in the public funding in the public system.
This money then gets displaced and actually allows public universities to get better with it.
We also say that this decreases the fight for resources that currently occurs when the best professors, the best corporations, all go to private universities because of the name recognition rather than paying attention to state schools.
When private universities don't exist, those professors have no choice but be hired by state schools, and those corporations have to network with state schools.
Finally, when people graduate with a more equal playing field, we tell you it is no longer a competition within the job market to come from the biggest-name school.
It means that I'm not getting arbitrarily shut out of a position because someone from harvard also happened to apply.
We think that standardizing this against grades is also really important.
At the point that I can be a straight a student coming from a public university and still get chosen below get get ranked below someone who came from harvard and had a much lower GPA, simply because they went to the school named harvard, is a problem insofar as insofar as there's no way to actually compare these different standards.
Is the is the name worth more than the grade?
We think it's preferable when everyone gets to go in the same kind of system.
For these reasons, proud to propose.