Don't abolish homework.
Right off the top I think it's really important for us to note that our side of the house is fine with assigning less homework.
We think that we've entered a time in society where children from like as young as the age of seven or eight are starting to have hours and hours of work upon coming home from school and we don't think that our side of the house has to support that because we can recognize that there are problematic impacts of overburdening a child but that the fundamental value, the fundamental material that is homework, ought still exist in some form.
The only burden on opp is to show you that there's some value to homework such that in whatever form that it might be it ought exists.
Meanwhile gov has to show you that there are no redeeming qualities, that it ought to be banned outright and I don't think that they've done that for you.
They have an infinitely higher burden than us and keep that in mind because we can still change everything else about homework just not whether or not it exists.
Three main areas of clash, first on why homework is incredibly preparatory, because insofar as these kinds of bans apply only to elementary and high schools we don't think that you are meaningfully changing the way in which children are going to be forced to work in the future.
You're not going to be changing the college professor that assigns work and doesn't even call it homework but just refers to it as your mandatory reading or mandatory assignments and we think insofar as you're going to be thrown into that world either way, your younger life ought be preparing you for that in every way that is possible.
Otherwise you get there, you get overloaded, and you give up and it is also too late to learn the skills that you need for those situations.
Recognize that forcing myself to sit down for hours on end and work on something that is incredibly boring and uninteresting the majority of the time even if it is an interesting subject that is probably not work that I want to be doing is a skill that is acquired through being forced to do that over and over and over and over again.
It's really hard for the first time to do that and then expect it to be a long time habit.
This is why we hear about people talking about things like study habits having to be something that you learn over time and we think that what happens when you like ban homework from schools is that you stop providing that resource and that skill to individuals who are going to need it in the future.
They're going to be unprepared for college and unprepared for life.
Our second area of clash is about practice material because recognize that homework, besides just serving as this extra grade and having kids do this thing outside of class, also services meaningful practice for tests and quizzes that come up later.
It's really hard to force a child to practice if it's not something that is mandatory because you're always going to assume that you know it and you're always going to assume that you don't need to work more on it or you're always going to know to what resources to turn to.
What homework represents is a free practice book, right?
Like if I'm prepping for the SAT's that would always be easier when there's a class on it, when I'm assigned assignments afterwards, because it holds me to a schedule without forcing me to hold myself to one on their own.
When you're working with children who are younger this is especially important because if you want them to learn the material it's not going to be enough to hear it once or twice over the course of an hour rather it is something that needs to be ingrained through practice so that they will remember it into the long term.
The problem on their side of the house is that they take away the main tool for establishing that kind of connection and establishing that memory and that skill.
We think that is incredibly bad for child retainment.
We think this is what the what this leads to is necessarily a world in which you have to go over the material of the previous class or the previous year and every class that follows which wastes massive amounts of time.
Our third area of clash is about how this allows for a metric of success besides tests, because there are plenty of children who suffer from test anxiety or struggle with test taking specifically but still know and understand the material they just don't have a way to demonstrate to you that if they're only meaningful greatest tests.
What homework allows is it allows you to say hey look I might do poorly on the tests but here's something that will be a percentage of my grade that shows you that I'm someone who was willing to put the work and the effort in to try and succeed.
This is really important so that children don't give up on that subject because they feel like they're not performing well in class.
Give them a metric of performance that is separate from something that they can't control.
Proud to oppose.