Don't require community service.
Two main areas of clash: first on demonstrating a meaningful choice.
Recognize that there are specific types of people who tend towards doing community service.
They are often those who genuinely care, are hard-working, empathetic.
Sometimes they're doing it just to build a resume but even then, we think that having the choice between multiple things that might build a resume and choosing community service is still meaningful in terms of representing preferable characteristics in some individuals as compared to others.
And we think this is an important marker, right?
Like, oftentimes colleges and employers are comparing between two incredibly similar candidates, and so we think that providing a way in which you can differentiate even further is quite important, like especially since it's good for people who tend to come from either worse schools or worse neighborhoods, who can't demonstrate those same qualities through their academics due to a lack of options.
Like, oftentimes, in like, using brandeis as an example, individuals who come from rural schools are at a massive disadvantage because the level of academics portrayed is way lower, but because schools can say they are someone who value service, etcetera, they can still choose, like individuals can still get into that university based on these other criteria.
But there's also, I think, many really good reasons as to why people ought not be required to do community service either way, just through a value of like choice.
Like we think the government exists to maximize individual choice, and we think that if we show you there's a valuable reason for why individuals don't do community service, then it's okay for them to prioritize something else, IE, there are a lot of people who are just genuinely too busy for that.
Like first-time parents or even like single mothers, stay-at-home mothers, et cetera, have have or like people with jobs that are incredibly demanding, can't prioritize something like community service because it necessarily comes at the cost of these other activities, so they don't have time for it.
And this idea that you can just always make time for something so small isn't true when this tradeoff happens on a day-to-day basis and a like very, very busy schedule, so you're always going to end up behind.
But another reason you might very validly not believe in community service is if you are someone who doesn't get represented well by their community, IE, african americans are massively over-policed and abused under the current government.
We don't think it's fair to say that they then owe anything back to that government through community service, given it doesn't represent them in the first place.
We think that insofar as the government is created to maximize the choice of individuals and allow individuals to live as free of a life as possible, it's not okay for the government to sacrifice those people who have valid reasons and are truly affected negatively by a policy like this for the few who might just be lazy and therefore non-contributors.
But our second area of clash is just clarifying what this world looks like, because tim seems to think that people owe something to their community and maybe, but we think that people pay that debt back when they pay things like taxes, or have market interactions, or do nice things for their neighbors.
We think that insofar as there are many people who are actively harmed by their community or choose to leave that, then we're unclear on why this kind of obligation exists universally, which is what he has to defend when you're requiring community service for everyone.
But also, we just don't think communities are separate entities in the way that he pretends, rather they are aggregations of people, and these people had no consent into these obligations.
Like we don't think that arbitrarily being born in a certain location makes you obligated to make it prettier, right?
Like we think that you had no choice over that in the first place.
We also think that people who are forced into community service tend to do an infinitely worse job about it.
Like, we think that we would prefer for people to choose this on their own so that we get a hundred percent, or we prefer for those people, the people who don't want that, to spend that time working, so you get more of an income tax them.
We think that if you just took more taxes and put them back into the community, you would get the same impact that tim is talking about without all of the negative externalities I told you.
Proud to oppose.