Don't cap executive comp compensation.
Two main areas of clash, first on why it is unenforceable.
I think something that drew never answers in his speech is what exactly the enforcement mechanism or punishment for this is / they're not going to throw people in jail because that's too much of an economic problem and corporations contribute a lot to our economy so they don't want to disincentivize execs at all but there but the only other alternative is something like a fine.
This is something that can either be swallowed by a corporation that is rich enough or it just incentivizes smaller corporations that are afraid of losing their good executives to switch to a large bonuses that are completely untraceable ie you can just have a really big christmas gift that doesn't have to be rewarded or if that's something that you can like somehow bring out you can lie about it or switch to other benefits ie I get this exact position and I get a like five hundred thousand dollar car and a really new phone that gets switched out every month and they pay for my film plan or like I get vacations all of these things are like things that could be used instead that would have the same impact providing a large amount of compensation to execs but would become completely untraceable but you probably don't want to do this if it's unenforceable because then you lose out on the income tax you can't tax something that you deny exists but also it breeds a lot of bad political will and wastes a lot of resources in attempting to enforce it.
We think what happens on their side of the house is that corporate leaders that have a lot of political power start lobbying for looser taxes and other loopholes now that they feel like they're not being compensated the amount that they deserve.
We also think that you end up with a false sense of solvency in that people think they are solving income inequality but execs are still allowed to quietly grow richer and richer on their side of the house.
We think that if you're truly going to change income inequality it's about first raising things like the minimum wage so individuals can actually afford life but then after that just like discussing how else you can help these individuals like we don't think that you're actually going to get meaningful change in terms of income inequality by targeting one specific group.
Our second area of clash is about how it's ineffective.
Recognize that plenty of people make a lot more money than executives.
Hedge fund manager, types of lawyers, etcetera but execs probably more are more necessary because these companies are actually oftentimes doing good even if not socially then definitely economically.
Like clearly these are people who are going to care about wage either way like if I'm a really smart individual who only cares about social good I wouldn't have chosen an executive position in the first place like that wouldn't be something that I have a goal for we think what's really important is that like insofar as this is someone who's going to be choosing a job that pays them a lot do we want them to choose something that is like higher paying but even shittier because we think that like hedge fund managers are always less useful and like more problematic than executives or do we want them to go do something that is productive for the economy and oftentimes productive for innovation.
I think the second area of clash under this is about how it harms productivity.
There are always going to be worse executives if they aren't paid as much either because you can't recruit the best anymore because they want those higher wages and they're going to go somewhere that offers them even if it's a different field or because there's less incentive to work hard once you're earning less.
Why would I put in tons of extra hours like stress myself out to massive degrees and like put my own blood sweat and tears into a corporation if I don't feel like I'm getting compensated enough for that and I know that I'll get away with doing less because people can't replace me with anyone because all executive positions now pay approximately the same?
So there's never a reason to choose one part like for a person to choose one job over another.
This means that corporations are less productive and it makes them actively harmful to the economy.
It also leads to corporations having to let go on their size and cut down workers because they aren't making as much revenue to be able to afford that.
Recognize that wage is a is a reflection of contribution to a company.
CEO's who built from the ground up or it made the company a lot more productive deserve what they are valued at even if it is often times bad for income inequality and other things.
For these reasons proud to oppose.