It's important to realize that opening to all four minutes to tell us two things: that because nations are arbitrary, and some people suffer more, we should prefer them.
I'm going to talk to you later, about why your nation, your national identity is not necessarily arbitrary, but with regards to suffering, we think it's unfair for opening to straw man the ways in which people suffer across the world.
We think that in the end, sure, there are more safety nets in western countries, than there are in some other countries.
This doesn't mean that everyone gets those safety nets.
We think that people starving in one place are indiscernible from those starving in another, as per opening's own argumentation.
At the point that this is true, we don't think that meaningful levels of suffering are enough for them to distinguish between, whether or not I should volunteer abroad or in my own home.
At the point that, often times the levels of suffering are very equal, then you cannot compare whether someone suffers more from being homeless, or whether they suffer more from being hungry, we think these are uncomparable at their core.
So, two main areas of clash, the first on obligations and the principle that opening is so worried about.
We think that obligations, first and foremost, exist to yourself, but secondarily, they exist to those who you affect and affect you.
Insofar as my attempts at, like maybe I benefit of a certain system, this usually means that, because I gained something from the system, I might be obligated to someone who loses it.
So because of this, we think that you more directly affect those in need at home, insofar as you benefit from the governmental systems from the, like, capitalistic systems, that harm them the most.
We think that, at the point that the suffering is often times equal, or at least indistinguishable from each other, because you are more directly connected to those who are closer to you at home, you ought work to volunteer for them first.
But, secondly to this is that we don't think that anything is truly selfless, including volunteering.
We think at point that you live in your own society, you ought do what benefits that society most.
Making functional citizens of those who are currently not, through volunteering at home, allows them to become people who buy into the market, who actively help the society around you, and we think that it's good to take the loads off of your systems first.
We think that, people like getting more people off of welfare, or getting people into houses and working jobs, means that in the future you're going to have a healthier, better society that can move to more good, and do more good abroad.
Our second area of clash, though, has to do with why we think that oftentimes international volunteering does more harm than good.
We think that historically, people bring ideologies and opinions on how things ought to be done, when they go abroad to volunteer.
We think that missionaries wiped out massive amounts of different african cultures, by bringing in their own religions, and saying: this is the only way to do it right.
And that, peacekeeping forces were often the most abusive and most violent.
The issue is that there is no fundamental amount of respect from those who go abroad to volunteer, because they go with this mind set of: these people are in need, and I'm the only one who may help them.
We think that, true true help and true volunteering must be built first on equal opinion of these people to yourself, not seeing them as inferior, and we think that this is just not something that you can apply in the world, given the kinds of world views, and mind sets, that are built around the volunteering industry, especially with regard to international.
More than this though, we think that not knowing cultural tendencies can greatly offended the people who you are trying to help.
We think that oftentimes, going into a village and not knowing their culture, showing disrespect from that culture, and trying to propose your own, is more offensive, and creates a situation in which they don't want your help anyway, because it is toxic to that culture and toxic to that area.
We think in the end, you're going to know your own society and your own cultures best, stick to where you can do the most good.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.