Don't end cheerleading.
Two main areas of clash, first on promoting free choice and preference.
Recognize first and foremost that literally the entire world is sexualizing and objectifying young women.
And unfortunately this is seen in any field of sport or physical exertion that we see.
Whether it is something like dance where we are often taught to dance in a suggestive manner, whether it is something like soccer or volleyball, where the attire is something that sexualizes us, or even if it's just our everyday existence and the ordinary clothes that we wear, men will find a way to sexualize women.
The question becomes: given that this is the status quo do we want women to be able to operate as freely as possible within those constraints?
We think the problem with what danny is proposing is that he is saying: " okay, men sexualize women so let's give women less options. "
We think they should be the opposite of the situation.
We don't think there's something inherent to cheerleading that makes it an objectifying sport or makes it problematic.
We think the idea of pride in your team and support for your teammates is something that is generally positive and we think the superposition of short skirts and problematic objectification is something that has been overlaid on top of those pure principles by the patriarchy.
So we think that insofar as danny didn't provide a way in which this is meaningfully different from any other sport, we don't think that it is actually like possible to remove this without adversely affecting women without but but not actually solving the problem at hand.
We think that it is good for women to have options.
First and foremost because men are always going to have them.
We even see men infiltrating usually female dominated sports like cheerleading and dance, but very little integration on the opposite front.
So we think that providing women with more options is going to equalize the playing field more than saying we're going to remove one because men have made it toxic.
But also I think that there are people who genuinely identify with that kind of presentation.
They like to dress in that way, they prefer to be objectified in some way, they prefer to sexualize themselves.
And we think that those kinds of stances are fine.
We also just think that like cheerleading is a reformable example.
Right?
Like you can do things like make it about pride.
You can regulate the clothing that people wear for the or like the for cheerleading outfits.
You can have an age barrier on it so that you don't sexualize overly young children.
All of these are possibilities without completely removing the freedom to participate in that activity.
Our second area of clash is about creating empowering female dominated spaces.
First recognize that cheerleading just isn't what danny characterized it to be.
If he had actually ever seen a real cheerleading competition he would know that it is a lot less about looking pretty for the boys and a lot more about the fact that you are using your body to do incredible things like back flips and team assisted flips and things like that that don't exist in other sports.
So we think that insofar as this truly is a unique type of sport and something that people can have a competitive preference for we think that that's important.
But also, recognize that women are stuck around men a lot and it's really hard to find a female friendly spaces for personal empowerment or just to get away from that kind of constant stimulus and.
And even of cheerleading is something that we don't think it's a perfect system, we think it is something that provides women with a meaningful community that they can identify with and often with things like female coaches to have role models as.
We also just think this can be used for things like resume building, there often cheerleading related scholarships.
We think that the problem with danny's world is that it doesn't create a replacement for these kinds of opportunities he just takes one of them away.
Proud to oppose.