The motion for today's debate is that we should increase drug testing.
We're gonna model this pretty broadly, we think that would be positive if on net we increased drug testing in all of the current fields that we have them.
We're fine with adding additional drug tests like we think that drugs are illegal and we ought be enforcing it essentially.
So three main areas of clash, first on why the good is idiosyncratic and the only way in which we can actually enforce any kind of good or determine any kind of good is by laws and customs and first on how the good is idiosyncratic.
Recognize that it is just like true that though our definition of the good and how individuals define the good is different depending on who you talk to.
Like maybe I'm a vegetarian and I really believe in protecting animals but like other people might not be and so we think that what happens is that we aggregate what individuals believe is the good and that's why maybe we don't have laws that prohibit the eating of animals because the majority of individuals don't see that as an automatic good.
And so we think that like once you have laws that determine that good based on their aggregation and based on the majority then you have to enforce them otherwise you just end up this like discriminatory law that enforces depending on individual status and circumstance which is necessarily unjust.
And so we think that like this denies individuals equality underneath the law but also prevents that law from having legitimacy insofar as it isn't something that is like truly consistent within that society and allows individuals to think that like maybe they'll be lucky enough to slip out from under it and then punish punishes individuals who just happened to not be lucky while other people got away.
But our second area of clash is about why we think that that would be harming cartels and why that's really really good because recognize that as long as illegal selling occurs we need to punish consumption because punishing selling only gets us so far insofar as if they're still consumer base and people want to buy all this means is that sellers raise their prices and go deeper underground or like maybe have like slightly less stock make it really really expensive because they know that people are going to buy it either way.
The only way that you decrease the that you actually hurt sellers and like have a chance of eliminating cartels is when you decrease demand by increasing the associated risk.
So if no one wants your drug you have to lower your prices a lot and oftentimes this makes it not worth the risk of selling it like not worth the fact that you're putting yourself at risk and your family at risk and like not earning that much off of it and like maybe it's really expensive to produce and things like that.
And so we think that when people are much more likely are afraid of getting caught afraid of getting punished in circumstances they usually wouldn't be they're way less likely to purchase it.
Like it's really easy for college students to buy marijuana or like start harder drugs like cocaine because we think that marijuana is probably fine but like things like heroin meth etcetra aren't when they know they're insulated by this intellectual bubble that administrators aren't going to puncture like we think that only once people don't feel protected is when they stop consuming and when they stop consuming is when we can actually like access cartels.
And recognize that cartels are really really bad because they're the ones that are actually propagating gang violence in like local areas that like sell that like grow these kind of drugs and we prefer a world in which they just didn't exist given like the associated crime rates.
Our third area of clash is about pushing for drug legislation because recognize that there are good and bad drugs ie it's probably worse when people are addicted to meth than when they occasionally smoke marijuana and we think the problem right now is that the law doesn't differentiate between drug classes because we just painted them all with the same broad brush and then since people know that the law can be lenient with specific drugs they don't care enough to actually like create political will to change that law because they're just like oh no one's going to get caught with it anyway but the problem is that a lot of people still do get persecuted with things like marijuana because it's a way to justify our ingrown racism and so we think that once you have middle class white people going to jail it's much more likely to to like get like political will and get political efficacy and like maybe making marijuana legal but maintaining heroin's illegality.
Proud to propose.