Don't limit genetic testing.
I think the biggest thing we're going to have to establish here is that we recognize that although there may be issues associated with over testing such as the fact that corporations might start getting a hold of your data or the fact that that companies that you work for or insurance companies might start denying you coverage, we think that a lot of this gets solved through legislation ie if we really think that this is a big issue in society and we think that it ought not be happening in a way that is big enough for it to impact our decision calculus about limiting genetic testing in the first place, those problems need to be solved given that they are not inherent genetic testing but rather inherent to the society we live in.
We think we already see similar legislation in that we have laws against what can be considered a pre like a predecessing condition and what can be considered a condition that your insurance company has to cover preexisting condition.
And so we think that insofar as that is true it becomes incredibly important for us to continue using those mechanisms rather than allowing us to prevent the use of something that can be incredibly helpful because we're afraid of it being mishandled.
It's essentially just like a simple weighing calculus why because of this possible externality would we prevent something that could do so much good especially when those externalities can be controlled in other ways.
Two main areas of clash, first on the potential that this brings and how it can help individuals.
Recognize that the problem of the status quo medical system is massively that it uses medication that is generalized across populations of individuals and so we don't actually have a way of noticing how your specific body and your specific chemical makeup and your specific allergy history or anything like that would it would react to different kinds of treatments.
This is why we end up in situations where someone might have a disease that is exactly the same as someone else but the same medication might not work for them both.
We think the beautiful part about genetic testing is that it is able to solve for these issues.
You can scan someone's DNA, look into their predispositions like tie that to how they're going to respond to different treatments, and then personalize your treatment plan based on that.
But also there's something even bigger at play here.
A lot of our current medication is massively like treatment-based.
It treats symptoms that already exist.
We think that what having genetic testing and therefore identification of diseases in advance means is that you're able to do things like have an understanding of how the future you is going to develop and respond so although currently you might not have x disease if your genetics indicate that you are likely to have it in the future you're able to make better decisions about whether or not you're going to interact with different risk factors like maybe you're someone who is really prone to to diseases that might be contributed to by stress and if that's the case we think what happens on our side of the house is that you can do things like avoid specific stressors because you know that you're sensitive to them in a way that other people might not be.
It also becomes really important in terms of considering whether or not to have a child.
Like we recognize that the big things are still going to be allowed on both sides of the house so like if you are if you're someone who has like the gene for cystic fibrosis both sides will know but we think a lot of people have fears beyond that like if someone has a history of schizophrenia they might be afraid of passing on those predispositions and we think that in the status quo a lot of those people just defer to not doing so automatically because they're afraid of the risk but on our side of the house you can look into their genes, consider what those risks look like, what percentage chance probability looks like, then determine whether or not they are willing to risk that based on that information.
We think that individuals have a right to know about their bodies, have a right to know about what their future is going to look like, and how it's going to affect other people they interact with and we think that personalized genetic testing allows us to access that.
Our second area of clash very briefly is just that we need this collective.
Aggregation of gene data is what allows scientists to aggregate and generalize treatments in the way that in the status quo doesn't really work but definitely would with genetics.
It lets us look at demographic interactions and generally facilitates research.
Proud to oppose.