Don't ban tattoos.
Right off the bat I think we make it we want to make it incredibly clear that we are fine with putting limits on how old you have to be to get a tattoo, we are fine with putting limits on corporations in terms of what kind of ink they can use, we have we are fine with making sure that there are regular safety checks at tattoo parlors very similar to what exists in the status quo like the point we're trying to make here is that literally every damage that sam comes up with is something that can be mitigated through legislation and recognizing that adults probably have the autonomy to choose whether or not they want a purposeful a long term purposeful mark on their body for the rest of their lives.
Three main areas of clash, first on freedom of expression.
Recognize that in countries like the united states and other western liberal democracies, not only does the constitution recognize things like freedom of expression, but this is something that is considered a fundamental right to the self actualization of an individual.
If you put me into a dark room, turned off all the lights, closed all the windows, and blindfolded and gagged me, then although I theoretically have the ability to self actualize, I don't have any of the tools necessary to actually exercise that.
This is why we value a lack of limits, because we recognize that different people have different ways of achieving their best self and when you limit them that's bad because it prevents them from accessing what literally every other person around them and what every person should be able to access.
Tattoos are meaningful.
They are a form of self expression and we do think that people can meaningfully consent once they've reached a certain age.
We think the argument that sam is making is basically like oh in the future you are a different person but scientifically individuals stop becoming different people around the age of twenty six, so if that has to be the new age for tattoos we're fine with that.
But actually we think that it comes down lower than that because recognize that it's not about being a different person, it's about being able to consent to that future action so saying yes I recognize the consequence and whoever the future me is will be able to deal with that whether it's tattoo removal or something else.
The argument that sam is making in an argument is an argument for someone never being able to make a decision that will permanently change their life.
So where I go to college is something that future me can never consent to like where I who I have a child with future me can never consent to but these are all permanent decisions that can never be changed.
In fact we'd say they're more permanent than something like a top to that does have removal laser processes in the status quo.
Our second area of clash is about the formation of the black market.
Very few countries have banned tattoos, but we see in those that heavily stigmatize them that tattooing still happens, it just happens in back alleys with dirtier needles and people who are less likely to talk about it.
We think that that's incredibly problematic, not only because it does things like spread disease much more frequently, but it also often facilitates younger people and those who shouldn't be getting tattoos getting them because the people who are doing this in back alleys don't care about how old you are, there's no government incentive that says you can't put tattoos on minors.
The only time that you can have meaningful regulation is when you have unbanned the thing that you are trying to regulate.
Tattoos tattoos in japan are a really good example because they have been stigmatized for years and years and years and yet you still have people were willing to wear long sleeves for the rest of their lives.
Clearly there is something about tattoos that makes individuals value them so much that they are willing to do this unique way of self expression even at the cost of their future future freedoms in terms of the clothing they where and how people view them in society and we think that it's important that people have the ability to do things like get them safely.
People we think that it's bad that on gov's world people would be afraid to go to the hospital if there's something like an infection.
Third though, we just don't think there's a justification to ban.
Tattoos don't hurt anyone around you and they don't even hurt yourself once they're healed.
Proud to oppose.