Don't nationalize the energy industry.
Three main arguments, first on government bureaucracy impacting quality.
You can subsidize energy as the government either way.
This is a debate about whether the government should own the means of energy production as drew points out.
Recognize first and foremost that government bureaucracy is awful.
They don't have a profit incentive so no one has a reason to work very hard or to make sure that they're doing their best.
There's a lot of tiers of bureaucracy to get through so everything takes a lot longer.
They're also constantly trying to cut costs which means you're going to have a distinct quality difference that doesn't get near it in terms of the price since the government is unlikely to lower prices if it's the only one selling, there's no meaningful incentive to have good customer service either which means it will take ages to fix any problems that arise.
This is especially important because the united states is absurdly large, so providing coverage to everybody regardless of location is ridiculously difficult especially when you take into account a lot of those nooks and crannies where you have maybe like fifty people per like sixty miles out in the south or in like the midwest.
And so we think that making sure you're able to fulfill those niches is something that is really easy for a private company to do especially when you have multiple private companies that kind of split the united states into portions but is really really difficult for like a large government conglomerate to take care of.
We also just think we want the experts to handle this, like we want to prevent a world in which crony capitalism situations arise where the government can make energy companies sacrifice quality or efficiency to get their own people better jobs and similar situations.
Like we see this issue arise a lot in countries that have kind of nationalized their large energy or like large other kinds of productivity companies.
We see that they then try and replace the people in them with their own friends or family members and this really hurts the profitability of those companies but also the efficiency and service quality of those companies.
Because now they're choosing to be crony capitalists instead of providing what they promised they would.
Our second argument is about accountability.
It's really hard to sue the government for poor action and we think it's actually easier to deal with private corporations because what happens on their side of the house with a with the government is that the courts are already against you because you are suing the government.
And moreover because this kind of entire thing is privatized it's a lot easier for the government to kind of silence individuals who feel unhappy with it or to shame them or to tell them that it's like risking their jobs things like that.
Whereas with private corporations, you can bring those kind of lawsuits up to the government and the government can support you within them.
We also just think the government is likely to pollute just as much as private corporations, it's just harder to work against it which is bad.
We also think that our side of the house allows a world in which we push for the government to create more regulations on the actions of private corporations.
So if we're worried about how much they're polluting in particular areas or if we're worried about the way they're treating workers, these are things that our side of the house has the mechanisms to solve.
But once you make the ship to nationalization, you're no longer going to have the ability to solve the other problems that we think get talked about a lot here.
Like having like if the government starts being the group that causes all of these issues, that's something that you don't get accountability for because the government is unlikely to regulate itself.
Our third argument is about competition creating quality.
When the government is the sole provider, it can just set its own price and provide whatever kind of product it wants to.
Like sure companies need profit, but they also can't be too expensive because then other companies will be more competitive with lower pricing.
So sure there are some large energy companies but there's still a lot of competition in terms of who provides electricity in different areas.
So maybe individual border type there are individual almost close to monopoly type companies, but not a real monopoly in that there is still potential for competition if they start messing up and not providing good service.
Drew's side of the house literally advocates for the government becoming its own monopoly.
We think that private corporations also have more of an obligation to innovation.
They want to know how they can maximize profit and in order to do that they're more likely to experiment with quality and like work towards max efficacy.
Proud to oppose.