We should abolish the filibuster.
Three main arguments: first, on why it is anti-democratic.
We think it is incredibly unjust that the minority gets to put a stop on a on democratic proceedings, not even with an actual minority, not with a group of people who represent a specific interest, like maybe there's oppression of minorities going on, but the problems of the filibuster isn't even that, right?
It's just one single individual who can hold up an entire country just by having their stamina working, just by going up and talking for a very long time.
We build our nation on democratic principles that say that if the representatives of the populace have a majority enacting a policy, then it should go through.
We live in a country that respects the desires of the majority and says, " this is what should occur. "
It is completely contradictory to our entire democratic system to give so much power to one person, but also to disrespect the power of the majority so much to literally say that even though you have gone through the correct channels, even though you have come up with the right opinions, you still cannot enact the policies that you prefer because of this one individual.
So it's like a bidirectional problem where it's both an issue of giving one person control, but also an issue of taking away the power from the people who need it, and who deserve it, and who rightfully have it.
Also, recognize that it is completely arbitrary.
Whether or not someone has the stamina to go through with a filibuster doesn't depend on how much support they have or whether they're doing the right thing, it only depends on how much physical and mental stamina they have so that they can last for so long.
This is why the filibuster is bad as a general concept.
Because even if sometimes it is used for good things, there's nothing that guarantees it will be used for good things, but we know that it is always undemocratic, so we should vote on that first in this kind of debate round.
Prioritize that which goes against those core principles in instead of the side that maybe says, " look, sometimes it does good things. "
Our second argument is that it is inefficient.
You're literally just spending hours of time doing nothing, and this wastes citizen tax dollars, because congress gets paid either way.
The electricity to that building is working, the lights are on.
It's a problem that they can filibuster, because it essentially means they're wasting time on the population's dollar.
It also leads to government shutdowns.
Filibusters in times of emergency often lead to shutdowns which are incredibly bad for the public image of the united states, but also stall the running of the country in other ways.
Like government-supported internet domains get shut down, people who work for the government get stuck doing do get stuck without their work or without their pay, and it massively contributes to gridlock, because it literally just prevents policies from getting through, right?
Like, someone can go up and filibuster a policy and it's just not going to happen, and also you're not going to talk about other potential policies because you're busy filibustering.
And that's really bad because in a country where we struggle with getting policy passed in the first place, because of the fact that there's this bipartisan system and people don't agree with each other, we think adding another way in which you are preventing people from being able to pass policy, IE, the filibuster, is really problematic.
Our third argument is that it reduces faith in the government.
People see that the rules don't mean anything when they see that the faith of their country rests on one individual choosing to hold up proceedings whenever they want.
The problem is that we have a very real code of conduct and laws that dictate the way that laws should be passed or not, and it's problematic that there's this random loophole someone can activate at any time just because they don't want a law to get passed.
It means that all those previous regulations and democratic safeguards don't matter because at the end of the day, democracy can be stalled by one person, in a diaper, reading from doctor seuss.
This produces backlash from the people on the other side of the filibuster as well in that the individuals from the party that isn't filibustering, it is trying to get those laws passed, now have a direct incentive to not work with that other party in the future.
So you're also just going to have more gridlock down the road as consequences of this filibuster, even if they are not direct consequences.
Proud to propose.