Don't ban hunting.
The problem with danny's speech is that he focuses entirely on this idea that people are going to hunt animals that are near extinction, they're going to hunt exotic animals, etcetera.
What he fails to recognize is that the motion isn't about about how we are like banning like how we have to like ban how we have to like when we unban we unban everything, rather op ground has to show you that some forms of hunting can still be regulated, we just shouldn't ban the entirety of it.
What we tell you is that the status quo already accounts for animals that are especially at risk of extinction or exotic, in that it requires licensing or just has complete bans on hunting them at all in specific nations.
For example, you can't hunt elephants in the majority of the different countries in africa without a very specific license then that costs an incredible amount of money that often goes towards conservation efforts anyway.
You also would never be allowed to hunt an animal that is near extinction, because that's also on a special list and you can never require a license for it.
So our side of the house can still defend licensing, it can still defend retraining, we just have to show you that not all hunting ought be banned.
With that, three arguments as to why that's true.
First, on population control.
Because recognize in a world where many natural predators have been forced out of areas where a lot of people live, IE it's really dangerous to have a city dominated by coyotes, so they're often terminated or pulled out of that area entirely, but the deer that those coyotes used to hunt still exist.
So you see a lot of rural areas that have massive problems with overpopulation of specific types of animals, because the natural predators have been forced out by the people currently living there.
This means and these animals actually are quite dangerous, in that deers destroy farms, roads, cause car accidents by stepping in the middle of them, etcetera.
And the alternative is a mass killing or poisoning on the part of the state which is expensive, dangerous, a massive waste of resources, especially when these dead animals can't be eaten afterwards, and a lot more inhumane than allowing individual people, who have been oftentimes trained in hunting to and oftentimes trained in killing them as quickly as possible after the initial shot, do so.
And we also think that at least on our side of the house, it's not the state wasting money that it could have used for other things, and in addition to that people are able to eat that, are able to use it as a form of communal bonding.
All of these things I'm about to talk in our second independent point, about all of the reasons that individuals hunt and why those are valid.
First, recognize for some populations such as native populations or poorer people in rural areas depend on hunting for food.
Meat is really expensive, and being able to kill one deer and store that meat for an entire winter in the freezer, is really helpful for people who tend to not be able to afford fresh or healthy meat on as regular of a basis as many others could.
There's also like then danny says this thing, where he's like " oh, but we don't allow dog fighting ".
Well, the problem here is that dog fighting is an like an incredibly sadistic activity that wouldn't happen in nature.
We think that like this does do things that like provide food, provide fur, etcetera.
It's used as bonding for families, and it doesn't have to be this inhumane thing where we just torture animals, like very often it just takes two shots to the neck and that animal didn't suffer at all.
Our third brief argument is on animal rights.
Like we're just unclear on why in a world in which animals violently hunt each other in the wild, why humans are excluded from this activity.
It seems like if anything, it is a lot easier for a human to be humane in their killing than it is for any natural predator to make sure that they are painlessly affecting this animal, because we are able to do things like aim better, check like to make sure they're dead before we start cutting them open, so on so forth.
So like even if animals have some rights, we don't think that the animals have a right not to be hunted, insofar as that is the natural environment either way.
Proud to oppose.