We should protect animal welfare.
We think of the should scale with the consciousness of the animal so we think that mice are always going to matter less than say elephants, and we should treat the animal in accordance to what that animal presents its needs to be.
So if a dolphin needs x amount of acres to swim in because that is what keeps it healthy and fulfilled we would provide those amount of acres, but we recognize that mice just don't need that amount of space to be happy or to be comfortable so we're okay with keeping them in cages.
And we think the dolphins feel pain more acutely in the same way that monkeys do, so you put the barrier on experimenting on them a lot higher than on ferrets who just don't.
So we think it's really important to recognize that animal welfare is contextual.
It is to each animal according to that animals needs.
Not just we have to treat every animal as though it is a completely autonomous equal to human kind of being.
So two main arguments, first on the justification for the existence of animal rights.
Recognize first and foremost that consciousness, which is the most used standard by scientists and researchers in the status quo for whether or not an animal deserves rights, is true for a lot of different types of animals.
Whether we're talking about elephants that can form family bonds and have communication or we're talking about ferrets that can create loose colonies of groups that can work together into some extent.
So we think it is the case that when we recognize that these animals have varying degrees of consciousness we must treat them according to that because it is the case that we do the same with humans.
Right?
We recognize that children have less consciousness than adults so we are more comfortable with mandating things about their existence.
We force them to go to school, we give them very little control over private property.
But as they grow up in their consciousness increases in their acuteness increases, that is when we say: " okay you are a full fledged human now.
You are deserving of full human rights. "
So we think that what we have to keep really clear here is this line between consciousness and like non consciousness.
But even if an animal doesn't have the same kind of consciousness as a person, or nearing that, even if they can't form family bonds, we think it is still the case that that animal feels pain and wants to avoid it.
So if you pinch a mouse that mouse hurts.
It runs away from you, it doesn't want to have that anymore.
And we think that insofar as humans are like similar in that respect, we can understand trying to avoid pain, we ought allocate animals the same rights we'd prefer allocated to ourselves in that regard.
So minimizing pain, minimizing torture.
And we think of course there are instances in which we can rationalize why that pain is worth it.
So maybe if you're doing some like cancer drug treatment that will save the lives of millions of people and prevent their pain, maybe it's okay to torture a couple of mice for it.
But it's probably still not okay to torture an elephant for it because of the fact that it combines with consciousness standard.
So we think this is something that is like very fluid but we think that insofar as it exists, that is something that is important.
Our second argument is about preventing animal cruelty.
Even if you don't buy into the philosophical justification of animal rights, if you're going to acquire an animal you should maintain its welfare.
First because of obligations.
Animals become helpless when a human takes it.
It would have been fine in the wilderness but the fact that we created the dependency, we said: " we're taking you out of that wilderness ", means that we now have an obligation and responsibility to make sure that it is not hurting significantly more than it would on its own.
We also think that this means we have to specifically make sure that animal isn't suffering because we would become the individuals who created that suffering and who caused it.
We also in this important with regard to developing the empathy of individuals.
Animal treatment is a reflection of many psyche disorders and it's important in the development of animals to see how a person or a child treats animals.
So we need to create a society in which animals are treated well to make sure that individuals are developing properly.
Proud to propose.