We should fight for palestinian independence.
What we mean by this is that we would prefer a world in which palestinian independence existed ie there would be a two state solution in which israel occupies a portion of their current land and palestine is provided with a livable piece of land as well it gets to be its own statehood its own representation and whatever international bodies it is a part of etcetera etcetera.
Three main areas of clash, first on rights.
I think first and foremost recognize the rights claim to the land that is currently israel and palestine is incredibly difficult to adjudicate if possible to adjudicate at all.
What I mean by this is that the individuals who claim israel's their right of birth because this is an area of their ancestors applies to both groups of individuals whether you are palestinian or an israeli.
This makes it incredibly difficult for any unilateral body to go in and say look this is the rightful owner of this land which means that this kind of conflict can literally rage at infinitum because there are always going to be people who are displeased with the outcome should there be a decision of one group over the other.
We also just think that this is a justification for the right of the individual to stay there.
If we think that israelis deserve to stay in israel because it is the home of their ancestors and therefore has been seated as the protective land by other international bodies this is an argument that also applies to palestinians and so ought be respected.
Both groups ought have a portion of that land.
But also I think it's important to note here that palestinians are stuck in an area of pseudo-citizenship where israel does not accept them as full citizens even if it treats them fine but we'd say that a lot of the time israel's actually quite cruel to a lot of palestinians especially on the border.
Doing things like cutting off aid coming into coming into palestinian territories allowing settlers to go in all of these are actions that are incredibly rights violative that are propagated by the israeli government and we think that insofar there is no way to create a world in which palestinians are viewed equally in israel and that is not a world that is preferable to either group the only natural solution would be to provide a palestinian independence.
Our second area of clash however is about why it's better for israel because recognize that there's a problem of differential fertility where should arabs or palestinians be given the same amount of citizenship as jews living in israel, they will out populate the jews there because they tend to have more children than israelis but also because there are simply more of them living in border towns than there are currently in israel.
This is really really bad because recognize that israel is an ideological state probably ought not be giving probably cannot maintain that ideology if they are if the people with the ideology are out populated by individuals of a different religion.
We think as such we as such it is always going to be a preferable alternative to israel to provide palestinians with their own state so that you can maintain a religious jewish ideological state because otherwise it is simply impossible.
You become a country that has a minority group ruling over a larger majority and that has never boded well through history.
But also it allows it it stops the rest of the world from doing the thing that we currently dislike so much where the UN constantly scapegoats and constantly calls out israel for their treatment of palestine and we know that in itself is important because when those things happen it delegitimizes israel in the broader sphere and prevents them from being able to accomplish what they actually want to do regarding their trade, regarding growth, and all things that we think you are prioritize if you want to build a good nation.
But finally let's talk about why the conflict is bad as a whole and why this solves it.
Currently both sides suffer due to the ongoing conflict of this of like the nation.
You have you have groups from both nationalities who really would prefer to just see the two state solution happen because it has been going on for so long which is why it currently polls of israeli youth show that the majority of them are pro the two state solution.
Look at the point this is a democratic solution as well as a preferable one end the conflict give them a state.
Proud to propose.