Don't end public housing.
First of all recognize that we just don't care if the apartments aren't in beautiful conditions as long as people have somewhere to live.
Even if they are being short changed people living there have clearly decided it's worth it given that they choose to stay there.
So sure, it might be objectively true that these apartments aren't in great condition, it may be objectively true that they are paying more than they are worth although we think that is contradicted by the very definition of what public housing is, but at the end of the day those are the decisions that those people should be able to make individually without the government deciding on their behalf.
This is a debate about whether or not public housing ought be an option for some people in the first place, whether or not it should exist.
When sam talks about discrimination, we thinks we think that he forgets that you can have anti-discrimination laws and we actually think that those are more effectively implemented with public housing than with regular housing because the government can actually keep an eye on it and talk to the people who are bureaucratically in charge of that housing, as opposed to private housing where although you might have some ability to take the landlord to court there is no one inherently watching over that landlord.
Like there is no accountability metric that reports directly to the government in the same way.
So we just don't think this argument makes sense in I any world because even if it is discriminatory at least some people who need the benefit get it but second because we just don't think it is as discriminatory as the other private options that occur in the status quo.
Two main arguments, first about access to cities.
Public housing can be built anywhere unlike other kinds of housing that has to be built in places where the amount of money that you can spend on that housing aligns with a million other potential factors that change whether or not someone pays for that house.
Meanwhile public housing you often have it built in or on the fringes of cities but this is the only way for people who are poor to get access to the resources that cities provide.
This goes everywhere from better job opportunities, better public transport, better social welfare support, to other things like a more close knit sense of community, and more options for the extra curriculars you might use to fill your time.
Using the not having these kinds of options forces people who are in poverty and cannot afford general housing to either be homeless or go look for very cheap housing in areas that they might not be able to get to or in areas that they have no connection to which makes it more difficult for them to succeed there.
This brings us to our second argument about helping those in need.
We need to find some way to provide people with affordable housing because the alternative is that those people don't have anywhere to live.
People are often region bound by their job, family, a lack of transportation, or money for transportation which means a lot of people can't just pick up and look for cheaper accommodations elsewhere especially since in the areas with cheaper accommodation it is often also the case that population density and job density is a lot lower.
The government needs to deal with homelessness and the lack of housing issues, public housing is the cheapest and most long term solution for that.
At the end of the day, this is about monetary efficacy and what taxpayers will be willing to support.
Building public housing is cheaper and creates long term solvency for families than the alternatives like putting money into shelters or giving money directly to individuals.
We think that this is one of the mostly bipartisan types of policies that allow for compromise between two sides and also happen to benefit a fairly oppressed minority within the country at the same time.
Proud to oppose.