We shouldn't fight the gender pay gap.
Two main arguments: first, on backlash.
I want to make one thing abundantly clear.
This isn't a debate about whether the gender pay gap is bad.
It's about whether there should be government action to change it, because I'm sure that government probably talked all about how harmful the pay gap is, and we agree.
But we think that if we show you that having a political action against it will have worse consequences, then we're fine with having a suboptimal system in the status quo.
Currently, the majority of the united states leans fairly conservative, which means that most people think that it should be the employer's choice how much to pay people, and many are just straight-up sexist and think that women deserve to be paid less, because their work is less valuable and because the market is something that we ought not interfere with.
If the government forces an action, there will be backlash on the corporate and personal level, because corporations are likely to just not hire women anymore on principle, and men are going to be angry and will elect more extremist politicians and treat women worse in their everyday lives.
And we think this is likely to happen because the world is simply not ready for the government to take radical feminist action.
There's too many individuals who still feel too self-entitled.
We think that we have to wait for the point at which men start to recognize that their behavior has been problematic, where we have more dominant messaging about why men and women are equal.
And at that point, first, we like think it'll resolve itself, which we'll talk about more later, but second, we think that only then can you advance these kinds of policies, because you can actually expect approval.
If we show you that the end result is just a more extremist politician who not only repeals these kinds of policies, but also makes the state of women actively worse, then we will win this round, because sometimes the consequences of a good action are such that you ought not take it in the first place.
There is no principled obligation to do good, regardless of the consequences, you have to weigh the benefits against the cons and see whether or not you're accruing something worth it.
As long as women are being paid a livable wage, as long as women are still able to advance themselves, and as long as women can still advocate on their own behalves, we don't think the government needs to.
This brings us to our second independent point, which is about providing an incentive to hire women.
Currently, there's an artificially higher value placed on men due to historical cultural dynamics, IE that men have traditionally run the world and traditionally ascertained themselves to be more important than women.
The reason women get hired at all is primarily because companies can get away with paying them less.
So the cost benefit analysis of hiring a man versus a woman allows a woman to come up on top, simply because they know that she will have to get she will be paid less, and so they can keep her and get the same quality of work for the same amount of money.
We think that the alternative is that when you do have to pay them the same, there stops being a reason to hire women at all, because you could hire a man for the same cost and have this artificially more valuable person in your workplace.
And this isn't something that companies do on purpose.
This is a very, very subconscious decision-making calculus, right?
We live our entire lives with the dominant messaging that men are more valuable, smarter, more important, and then when we're sitting in a room choosing whether or not to hire someone, all of those impulses, all of those influences are necessarily changing the outcome of our decision such that we cannot objectively make a choice.
So we think that when someone knows, " I'll be able to offer this individual less money, " that's an objective calculus that counteracts all of that social messaging in their head.
As society gets less sexist and women show that their labor is worth the same in terms of productivity, the market will have to adapt.
Individual women are going to demand equal treatment either way.
The government doesn't need to get involved, because companies will have to adjust if they want the talent.
And we think given that there are many, many powerful women in the world that are showing that their talent is worth it, it is inevitable that this will strain itself out on its own.
Proud to oppose.