We shouldn't abandon brick and mortar companies.
Government probably came up here and talked a lot about how brick and mortar stores are obsolete, but they forget that the obsoletism is an artificial construction.
Online stores could choose to be brick and mortar instead, they just don't do it because it's cheaper for them not to exist in reality.
And vastly, the reason that brick and mortar stores are more expensive for the corporations that own them has to do with a lot of the things that we actually think end up benefiting the rest of the society, even if it hurts the profit margins of the corporations, such as the creation of in-place jobs, the fact that you're actually paying for things like buildings that on their side of the house will go empty, all of these things might hurt the profit margins of corporations but are actively beneficial to the economy.
And what this means is that in this kind of debate, we have to decide if we care more about these corporations and their rights or more about what is better for society as a whole.
Our side of the house is always going to say that the profits of a corporation do not matter nearly as much as the existence of all of the side benefits, especially since most corporations that we're going to talk about, we think, can afford to have brick and mortar stores.
They just choose not to.
Two main arguments, first on job creation and other economic good.
Remember that brick and mortar stores participate in the economy in many more facets that online ones ever will.
What I mean by this is that while online stores basically just have an online domain that they might pay to upkeep or some like costs when it comes to the association of jobs of engineers, web designers, and then the people who manufacture and produce the good, this isn't nearly as much entanglement within the economy as brick and mortar stores provide, where you have companies that are paying for the building that they are in, the heating of that building and therefore, like, trickling their money into those sectors, in addition to the fact that these companies often have many more jobs, because not only do they have the jobs that are associated with manufacturing and distribution that occur on side government, but you also have in-person job creation of just like the people who have to man the store on a day-to-day business day-to-day basis, the people who are managing and like other people.
And we think that those jobs are actually a lot more valuable, because while being an engineer of like a website often requires a college degree, we think that when you just have jobs that are retail essentially, those jobs don't require the same level of education, which is something that you are seeing less and less in western liberal democracies, where it's becoming more and more common that a college degree is necessary in order to obtain what you want in life.
So we think at the end of the day, even if government talks about how you have jobs created when you have growth in online businesses, it's just not the same as the type of jobs that we think get created on our side of the house.
Our second argument is about social connections.
Without brick and mortar businesses, you lose a lot of the interpersonal components that mark the current shopping experience.
With brick and mortar shopping, people need to leave their house houses.
They have to interact with others.
They get to feel the items out, try clothes on, and these are real physical experiences, even if they might seem marginal.
And I think that this is actually really important on a personal level, because you're getting people out of the house and making them feel productive, even if it is in this really minor way.
I think that all of us have had that moment when we've spent all day indoors and we're feeling really gross about ourselves, and we're lonely, and we're restless, and we don't really know how to alleviate that feeling, except when you finally leave the house and you feel rejuvenated, even if you didn't do anything.
And I think that given that we all know that feeling, brick and mortar stores really help prevent that.
Additionally, they're good on a social level.
It forces people to interact with each other, and even if it's not interactions with friends, these interactions are still valuable insofar as they are interactions with other people.
You also just like are less likely to overspend as much.
You're going to buy things that are of higher quality because you can actually see them in person.
Proud to oppose.