The motion for today's debate is that we should limit asylum.
What we mean by this is that we would make the requirements for asylum more similar to that for regular immigration, IE, not only are you proving that you are facing an imminent threat from your government or for your life, but you also have to show that you have no criminal record, and we would have prioritization for those who will contribute to society, like the same standards that we have now, but we would be fast tracking people who also are facing death from their society.
Two main areas of clash: first, on fairness because, in the end, most immigrants are coming to the US because their home country is inhospitable.
Nobody leaves a pleasant situation where they are making enough money to feed their family and where there aren't better opportunities abroad.
Like, the majority of immigrants are coming in because they're facing intense hardship, and we think that when governments draw the line between what deserves asylum and what doesn't, they often don't consider the nuances of people's situations.
In the end, there's very little difference between leaving a war-torn country, where there's political oppression, and leaving an area, say, in mexico, where it is torn up by gangs, there's a lot of drug violence, and it's very difficult for you to have any upward leverage, because you happen to be born into a lower class, and there's like a shortage of of jobs.
The only difference, in fact, is the western perception of the situation in which they get to say, " well, because you are politically oppressed, you somehow especially deserve asylum. "
But given that there is equal desperation, we probably should give them an equal opportunity to enter the country.
It's unclear why one should get a fast track while the other waits for years and years, especially if the first one has a criminal record.
We think that when you force them to meet the same standards, you're creating a world in which you're going to be more fair to both parties, and you're also opening the door for more immigrants to be let in and not just asylum seekers, because these are oftentimes very similar quotas and like, especially politically, very similar in terms of how many conservative politicians are willing to allocate to both.
So we think you actually leave space for more immigrants to come in on our side of the house.
Our second area of clash is about protecting society, because when the government takes away people's individual rights such as limits the right to movement, like limits the right to speech to a point, they do so with the promise that in exchange for these rights, we're going to make sure that you are safe and protected.
And as such, the the government first owes safety to its citizens before it talks about people who are outside of that system, simply because it is the citizens who are doing things like paying taxes or giving up their individual rights, and so there's more of an expectation for the government to provide for them first.
And so we think that you violate that promise when you let in convicted criminals who could be potentially dangerous to that society.
You're breaking the trust between the citizens and the government, and we think that it's really problematic to do so, because then you are taking away people's rights in an unjust manner, given that you're not fulfilling your side of the contract.
So I think our side of the house better fulfills that nonverbal social contract between the government and the individuals.
We also think that these kinds of policies protect other immigrants, because the common individual doesn't know the difference between an immigrant who came here through normal regular immigration means versus those who came on based in asylum.
So if an asylum seeker has a bad record or behaves inappropriately once they're in the country, it looks bad for all immigrants, and oftentimes leads to the harsher legislation governing all immigrant activities, not just asylum seekers.
So we think politically there's very, very little difference between immigrants and asylum seekers and as such, we ought be holding them to the same standard, given that immigrants are already often criticized more than any other member of society.
And when you add to that criticism by being a like criminal asylum seeker, we think that you're directly harming those individuals.
For these reasons, proud to propose.