Prenatal diagnosis can be made free and available as an opt-in system on both sides of the house.
The question in this round is do we mandate it for everybody?
Our side says no.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why it is unjust to mandate.
So, as I just said, we think that both sides of the house can have a world in which you can offer to pay for the prenatal diagnosis and incentivize people to do so.
And we think that a lot of patients will say yes.
A lot of parents want to know what is going to happen with their children in the future and whether their children are healthy.
But we think that those who don't want to, reserve the right not to be forced into it.
There are multiple reasons that people do not want prenatal diagnosis, among them is religious.
A lot of people are religious beings and believe that god will give them whatever they need or whatever they can like work towards, and they don't believe in seeing this child beforehand or seeing what conditions might arise, because it would be going against the work of god to consider things like abortion or to even like see this beforehand.
We also think that choosing not to do prenatal diagnosis means that parents are consenting into the potential harm after that.
Because if they've been educated about the possible risks, if they've been educated about why this is a better option and they still say no, it's essentially them signing a piece of paper that says: I understand what I've said no to, and I consent to what happens afterwards.
Given that we allow people to do things that harm themselves and their children all the time, a great example being cigarettes and secondhand smoke, at the point that these are literally cancer sticks that can like can both like hurt the child and give them cancer in the long term and definitely hurts the parents using it, we think the marginal harm that these parents might experience from not being able to prepare early enough, like given that they didn't look at the prenatal diagnosis, it's probably true that they weren't going to opt for an abortion either way.
We think all of this is marginal by comparison, and thus is within the purview of parental rights.
It's also unclear why this is different.
Like, as long as the impact is only on the parents and the unborn child, we don't think this is something that can be mandated.
Like, we reserve the right in our society to let people do stupid things.
And we think that even if this is something that is especially stupid, all the government can do is encourage people to do it and not be stupid.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it creates pressure for parents.
We exist in an ableist society that places more value on children who are born healthy.
Already, we see that parents face a lot of societal pressure to abort disabled fetuses.
Because a lot of the time, especially young parents are told: look how hard this child is going to be to take care of.
You're not going to be prepared to handle it, you should just get rid of it now and try again later.
The problem with this is that we don't think that there is anything that like this there there is anything that intrinsically makes this disabled fetus somehow less worthy of life than an able-bodied one.
We think the fact that you're going to be born with disabilities is arbitrarily assigned to you based on your genetics and just how you're forming within the human body.
This isn't something that you personally control, and thus you ought not be punished for it.
Prenatal diagnosis makes this so much worse.
Because now there can't be an excuse that you didn't know, and it provides a lot more time for parents to get pressured into choosing abortions.
The problem with this is not just that we think these children have an equal right to exist, but also because it harms disabled communities significantly.
Many communities have formed around disabilities, like bright communities around autism, deafness, cystic fibrosis.
They have brilliant cultures of their own and accept people who are like them.
We think that when you have essentially many communities and many cultures as subcultures of the larger one, detracting from them, simply because of their characteristics, is both ableist, but also harmful to them politically.
If you have less of a population that is willing to advocate on your behalf because less of your population exists, you're much less likely to be able to effectively argue for things like more public spending on handicap access or like more political will to provide like access in schools, etcetera.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.