Don't subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
Look, I think that all we're saying is that we're fine with embryonic stem cell research existing, we just don't think that the government should be the one funding it.
So when james spends so much of his speech talking about how there are no moral qualms with stem cell research, we agree.
That's not what this debate is about, rather it is explicitly about whether it is the government that should be the actor in subsidizing this kind of research rather than leaving it to private corporations.
Two reasons it shouldn't, first on political backlash.
Although we will generally be personally agnostic on the ethical implications of stem cell research, we have to recognize that there are plenty of people who aren't.
We live in a country with a very strong religious leaning.
There are plenty of people who assign life to embryos and who are genuinely offended by the concept of stem cell research, not because they're bad people or because they are confused, but rather because their understanding of the world is fundamentally different from someone else's who does not see life as starting at conception.
We think that the backlash is also likely to actualize in really bad ways, like cuts to scientific funding more broadly, in addition to the stopping of the stem cell research itself.
It also means that people will vote for individuals who are more extreme in these views and believe less in science, so that they won't risk having this kind of thing happen again.
Recognize that our funding for sciences as the US government is already constantly on the chopping block, because it isn't seen as something that is absolutely necessary.
We think that stem funding embryonic stem cell research is literally just providing a reason for individuals to bring that knife down and make it even lower.
We also just think that when james is like saying he's worried about shady research happening in other places that he doesn't understand what he's talking about, like, right?
Like, first, we don't think it's the business of the US if there is shady research somewhere else, but also we just think that he's painting an incorrect picture of what countries like thailand or other countries are, right?
Like it's not as if they're these savage nations that are just ripping embryos from people's bodies.
Like these are people who are incredibly intelligent.
They went often to the same schools the scientists in the US went to.
They have laboratories, and they're never using like someone else's fetus, rather they are also growing them in a lab, the same way that we would.
So we just don't think that james's portrayal is accurate, and if other countries are interested in doing this, we're fine with them doing that.
Our second argument is about how there is more important research for the government to be funding.
Embryonic stem cells are cool but they are vastly getting outpaced by induced pluripotent stem cells, which don't need to be extracted from embryos.
Moreover, we think that the government should be focusing on subsidizing scientific projects that are less experimental and have more clinical potential.
Like stem cells, despite all of their written potential, are still vastly theoretical.
They're still in the research phase, and we haven't even gotten to the point where we understand them enough to start implementing them in therapeutics.
So when james talks about how it'll be good for people who are sick, he doesn't seem to acknowledge that there are infinitely more other kinds of therapeutics and drug approaches that are already much closer to publication and public use that the US government could subsidize to send over the brink and actually help individuals, rather than pouring money into something that is basic research where the benefits won't materialize for at least the next thirty years.
We we think that if james actually cares about maximizing the good, then the thing that the US government should actually be subsidizing is this other research and other therapeutic agents that are more close to being official and FDA approved.
We also just think that at the end of the day, when james says that this is a short-term investment, we think this is exactly the reason you're not voting side government, right?
Like if something is so short term because we know it's about to be obsolete, because we have all this other research, then we might as well just focus on those other research instead of burying ourselves in something that won't get validated in time before that other stuff materializes.
Proud to oppose.