We shouldn't protect net neutrality.
I'm sure that government talked all about how private companies are now going to be able to slow down or extort certain websites or block websites who have political messages in opposition to those sites and I think on net these are good arguments, right?
It is very likely that we will not be able to catch all of these loopholes but I think that really the question in this round is how much we care about business in innovation and catering to business industries in a in a country that is based in capitalism and based in supporting these industries and I think that at the point that that's what we're discussing, the frame of this debate really shifts.
Like we think we care a lot less about human rights and a lot more about these corporations that do things like provide jobs and take care of people.
But I also just think that we've had a lack of net neutrality in the past and it hasn't led to these massive abuses and the reason that hasn't happened is because consumers still hold the reins when it comes to the way that internet service providers behave.
So if they suddenly start really slowing down the service to specific websites or really extorting websites, that's something that consumers just will drop them over, right?
You'll get a different service provider who doesn't do that and I think that given that we have this kind of check on their behavior, we can give them more rights.
Two main arguments: first, on promoting network innovation.
The rise of bandwidth heavy services such as video streaming and content downloads mean that ISPs have less money to spend on upgrading and extending their net networks because they have to put a lot more resources into these like heavier conglomerate sites.
Allowing them to charge these large website conglomerates like google and microsoft for their resource intensive services would let them put more money back into innovation because in the status quo they have to charge these people the same and provide the same kind of service regardless of how much of that bandwidth you're using up and I think that's something that's really bad because it means that they can't kind of way out how much exactly each of these different conglomerates is taking up.
Like obviously a small DVNR page isn't that bad but when we're looking at services like netflix or amazon, those are things that really take up a lot more resources and we also just think it's more fair because now you can actually like weigh out based on resource use rather than just have to provide the same for everyone.
Our second argument is about decreasing obscene content.
Right now internet service providers have no way of preventing problematic content from entering the internet and as a result we see tons of pornography and illegal file sharing sites and the promotion of illegal content or even like drugs on line and I think a lot of this has to do with the fact that there isn't really a check against their sites if there isn't something explicitly illegal and even when there is something really illegal you still depend on someone else outside noticing that because internet service providers can't do anything about it and I think this is really actually important because if net neutrality was removed internet service providers could block these bad services or at least require them to verify individual age so that you get lost children accessing sensitive material.
I think this is really a way in which we can rely on internet service providers to kind of do a good for society when we give them more rights.
Proud to oppose.