We shouldn't subsidize condoms.
I think a really important point of framing here is that I think what government is defending is like why uniquely there should be a government subsidy that is cordoned off only for for condoms, cause I think it's the case that a lot of the time, condoms end up under the umbrella subsidies of a lot of other institutions.
So any money that goes to planned parenthood also often goes to buying a bunch of condoms that sit on their like front desk and are free to individuals, and universities often also have a like pertinent interest in making sure that their students don't get pregnant or have an STD.
So even without government funding, they're really likely to provide free or incredibly reduced cost condoms.
As such, I think it's important that like we show that government actually has to show us why the federal government has to provide the subsidy, why individual groups can't just do it on their own or why that's not enough?
This is what brings us to our first independent point which is about why we ought be subsidizing something else.
At the point that many institutions are going to be providing free condoms either way, we don't think that you need a specific subsidy, and given that even if like we don't buy that institutions already do this, condoms are incredibly cheap.
Danny says like " but oh, people who are poor still can't afford them, " but I think at the point that you can get like a pack of twenty for literally a dollar off of amazon, I'm not sure that they're actually exists a meaningful barrier regardless of how much money you make.
We think it would be better to use this money elsewhere.
It's probably more important to provide food, shelter, etcetera, to the citizens of your country insofar as there's like a hierarchy of needs that corresponds to a hierarchy of government obligation.
I think it is the case that you should probably feed your starving citizens before you provide extra food to those who have already eaten insofar as those who are starving face much greater risk of actual death and need that food a lot more.
And I think that's a really good example as to the order that we ought be following for the majority of other things as well.
Our second area of clash is about why the government shouldn't be encouraging sex.
Recognize that when the government subsidizes something, it issues its own like seal of approval and in very subtle ways, encourages that action.
This is really bad because sex is a really personal decision that individuals should take on their own without any kind of undue government influence that would be changing their mind or like an endorsement of that action.
And I think the problem is that in the status quo, it's already really difficult, for women especially, to be able to non-coercively make the decision about having or not having sex.
When you add like the government desire for you to do so as signaled by this, we think that it gets really, really complicated and incredibly pressuring for people who don't want to engage in it yet.
Our third area of clash is about conservative backlash.
When these kinds of policies ban are passed, it's seen as endorsing hedonistic behaviors.
It becomes a useful tool by which they recruit especially liberal religious people, who might have really strong religious ties that tell them that like sex before marriage is bad, but like maybe they believed in same-sex marriage and maybe they believe in a lot of social welfare programs, but because religion is so important to them, they're willing to forego all the rest of that in order to make sure that people are going to be like are not going to be having sex, or like the government isn't promoting them do so.
I also think this ends up being a way by which like by which conservatives pass anti-abortion laws, because a lot of the arguments against these kind of flaws are that women often don't have any control and shouldn't be forced into situations where they raise children they don't want.
But if condoms are free or incredibly subsidized, the question becomes like what control did she not have that she couldn't have used a condom before having sex?
As such, I think that the fault of like the woman being pregnant, even if she doesn't want it, falls more totally on the woman and is very damning on their side of the house.
For these reasons, proud to propose.