The motion for today's debate is that we should end affirmative action.
Two main areas of clash: first about political backlash.
I think it's really important to understand the ways in which affirmative action gets framed in political rhetoric.
Because very few individuals actually recognize that affirmative action is something that facilitates an adjustment to previous inequalities that no one could control, or were often created by people who were white and more privileged.
But the way in which politicians do you construe it and the way in which a lot of white people see it is that it's become massively synonymous with cutting people of color slack, like lowering the academic bar to make it easier for people who couldn't achieve it on their own.
It seen as disenfranchising those who are more deserving and like seen as reverse racism, like white people are now being discriminated against.
These things are obviously not true, but it doesn't change politicians' and change individuals who might be less educated minds about using this kind of rhetoric or believing in these kinds of ways.
And as such a lot of people really resent this policy.
They see it as an addition to a list of things that people of color want as handouts rather than working hard for themselves.
Like the conflation of people of color with things like welfare has been massively detrimental in allowing individuals to see these kinds of policies as necessary.
Rather they see themselves as individuals who have pulled themselves up by their bootstraps and then don't understand why people of color or minority groups can't do the same.
This resentment presents a massive rallying force in that a lot of the times politicians will use this to get people on the margins.
Like: " look, you didn't believe in us before but now that you see that you're being treated so unfairly and you're being discriminated against us, you should be voting for us. "
So we think this actually loses democrats a lot of potential political capital, which is really problematic.
But there's also a really problematic outcome in that it actually affects public policy.
Like it's really hard to pass other things that might benefit people of color into the long term because it's seen as extra handouts.
Like doing things like allowing unemployment to last for longer or making sure that like there's well funded support for welfare or food stamps, all becomes a lot harder when it seen as added to a list of potential handouts.
And we just think it's a lot more important to make sure that people have their fundamental rights fulfilled and fundamental needs fulfilled first, like make sure you're not starving and not homeless, before we do things like work with like college education.
Our second area of clash is why it's bad for individual students.
First we think it sends a really bad message to anyone who is a person of color at an elite institution.
It's associated with this idea that the only reason you're there is due to affirmative action or the color of your skin and it creates a never ending expectation and requirement to prove that you deserve to be there, because everyone else sees you as undeserving or less deserving.
And so we think that that is actually a really damaging way for individuals to live their lives.
Like we don't think they should be under this constant pressure.
And we think that they should have a certain amount of control over their own lives and that they aren't just like puppets who couldn't control their own situations and got there through other people's hard work.
And I think that this is something that can be really hard on your own self esteem but can also really be really hard on you mentally because everyone is going to fail sometimes.
There's never going to be a world in which you live up to every single person's expectation.
But when that expectation is tied to the entire like the rest of your racial group we that's really bad.
Like at the point that one black student doing poorly on an exam or failing out of college is a like mandate against all people of color, that's just too much to put on one individual.
We also think though that it affects how other people treat or think of them.
Like other students.
We think that you end up being treated more poorly because it's seen as a trade off between benefits for you or them.
A lot of the time students end up excluded or abused by other students because they're seen as people who are deserving to be there or they're automatically assumed to be stupider than them.
And we think that when you remove affirmative action it basically mandates that every single person within that context is someone who made it their of their own hard work and of their own free will.
For these reasons, proud to propose.