Don't have year-round schooling.
Sam pretends the only reason that the current system exists is because of agriculture.
Even if this is true, we clearly now maintain the system because there are still other benefits to having time off, but also we think that massive parts of the united states are still agriculture-based.
So even if it's true that the only reason the system of year-round schooling doesn't exist is because we need breaks to take care of the farm, there are massive swathes of the united states that do need people to take breaks to take care of the farm.
So we just think that this is absurd.
He also spends a lot of time talking about how people should wake up later, but this isn't unique to creating year-round schooling systems.
We can do that, too, without year-round school, just by adding another hour at the end of the day and letting people come in later.
There, problem solved.
He also talks about guarantees for students having a meal a day, and we think that this is true that it is important, but we think that there are other reasons that this can still occur on our side, or it's just outweighed by the arguments we'll talk about later.
First, we think that there are subsidized government summer programs that solve for this in a lot of areas, but also we think that the students who benefit off of this are the same students who need summer off in order to be able to work more full-time jobs so that they'll have the money to study during the school year.
Two main arguments, first that it's better for children.
Sam is right that the students are exhausted and unfocused, but he doesn't seem to understand that year-round school would make that worse.
School is something that is exhausting emotionally, physically, and mentally.
It forces kids to stick to a very strict schedule, stay seated for hours of the day, and interact in controlled social interactions with populations of individuals they likely don't want to be interacting with in the first place.
These are conditions that adults are capable of dealing with because adults are more developed and have built up stamina, but for children, this is a really high ask, especially since physically, children have more energy and require more time outside and being physically active than adults do.
It's also bad for their emotional and mental development to be overloaded with work all the time.
Summer break is a good way of creating more of a balance when it comes to work.
It still prepares kids for the real world and provides them with the positive parts of an education, learning and other skills, but still gives them a long enough uninterrupted period of freedom that they don't feel too overwhelmed.
In this way, summer break prevents fatigue, while year-round schooling would exist would exhaust kids to the point that they would feel like education is unenjoyable.
This is how we see burnout happen in a lot of countries that these kinds of systems exist in.
People who go through year-round school before college are burned out by the time they get to higher learning and don't perform as well as they would have.
Our second argument is that it's important for extracurriculars.
This is more important than sam's argument about consistent education, because we don't actually need that consistency in order for people to learn, right?
But we do need this time to help build up resumes and other things.
First, it just give students the opportunity to do something besides school.
The first independent point applies best to elementary and middle school kids, but we think that summer is really important for high schoolers as well.
During the school year, you rarely have time for anything besides classes and school-focused extracurriculars, maybe a job if you need it, but you can't allocate very much time to it.
You don't have time to throw yourself into intense projects or full-time job positions.
Summer gives in an uninterrupted span of time in which high schoolers can do things like take extra classes at a nearby university or pick up an internship.
This is good both on a personal level and in terms of building resumes for college.
It's also better for those in poverty in that summer provides a span of time where people have who have to work to help provide for their families can build a little bit of a nest egg or at least contribute more to make up for the time during the year that they won't be able to work for the same extent.
We think that this lets people strike a healthy work-life balance.
Large populations of kids who are lower middle class, who don't have enough money to not to not have to work, but if they can up their hours over the summer, they can do less work during their class time, and this lets people who still need to work, either way, make more money.
Proud to oppose.