Don't abandon coal mining.
First and foremost we want to talk about providing jobs because I think a massive problem with government's case is that they can rail into why coal mining is bad but they never provide us a meaningful alternative.
The fact of the matter is that coal mining whether it is bad for the environment or bad for the individual is a meaningful way for a person to make sure that they have enough money to support themselves and their family and that is always going to be a priority insofar as that person otherwise wouldn't have the means to continue to exist in a way that is humane or oftentimes away at all.
We think the topmost priority in this round is always going to be about protecting an individual's ability to subsist and if government isn't providing us with any alternatives to that coal mining job, then we don't know what they're going to do.
Because sure, maybe it's harsh and maybe it's bad and maybe individuals can't completely conceptualize those harms or consent to them when they have no alternative, but the fact of the matter is that even if I have no alternatives I'd still rather do that thing and if they don't change my alternatives or make more of them then they aren't meaningfully helping me by taking away the only one that I have.
We think that people can consent to a job insofar as it allows them to continue to survive even if that job is personally bad for them.
A lot of people who don't have access to the money or the education settle for things that make them unhappy whether it's standing for hours on end because they are waiters or whether it is working in a coal mine, these things are both detrimental to the individual physically and emotionally but they are things that people choose to do because it is always better than starving.
We think this is especially true in small towns that literally have nothing else.
If you go out to rural rural pennsylvania, the rural rural midwest, we'll see that although individuals live there and don't really have the ability to move around whether it's because they have strong familial and cultural ties to the area or because they physically don't have the money or the opportunities to go elsewhere because they know they won't be able to find a job there so they can't transfer themselves, we think that this means that when you abandon coal mining you're especially messing with those towns and those people.
We think that this is fundamentally problematic and we are always going to think it's more important that those people continue to have a way to do things.
Our second argument is about the responsibility of the government, because gov's advocacy in this situation is basically like hey it's bad for the environment and sometimes it's bad for individuals stop doing it, but they neglect to recognize that we always ought be putting the people and their rights and their preferences before anyone else.
Recognize that the US abandoning coal doesn't change anything politically on a more like geo worldwide level.
Other countries will continue to behave however they want.
This is essentially a symbolic action but it comes with hurting citizens who now lose their job from coal or losing tax revenue from the coal industry so on so forth.
We think insofar as this would be the government prioritizing other countries and other countries' preferences over what is pragmatically better then for their own we think that is bad because even if coal mining is a bad thing similarly to many other industries it is something that also produces a lot of money provides a lot of jobs and keeps a lot of influential people within the united states.
Our final argument is about how the market will solve.
The problem with what with with what tim is saying is that he's essentially saying hey look we can just artificially stop the production of this thing because we think it's bad.
But this is essentially an artificial interference of the government within the free market.
Recognize that if people really don't like something, if they have decided that it is morally corrupt enough that they will not participate in it, then that thing will stop proliferating on its own.
That is what it means when we say that the market will solve.
When you artificially abandon it you are being antidemocratic and antimarket because you are basically saying that us as the over arching hegemonic government will not consider the preferences of the individual and take this act either way.
We think that is incredibly problematic and we are proud to oppose.