The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon online dating services.
What we mean by this is simply that we prefer a world in which online dating was not something that people would normally turn to or use in order to find their potential sexual or romantic partners.
Two main areas of clash: first on why online dating is uniquely sexist.
First under this is that it promotes objectification.
Insofar as when you are online dating you don't actually know the individual that you are talking to or you don't actually have any way of understanding their interests or their intellect as you would from even a cursory conversation, then it makes it very easy, and in fact necessary, for you to evaluate them based only on their physical appearance as you see it in the photos that they have on their profile.
This encourages men to continue seeing women as pieces of meat for their own appraisal.
And base their judgments of women on their physical appearance, rather than things that we think ought matter more such as their intelligence or their emotional stability or like the way they relate to the world and the similarities that they share with them.
We think that any practice that propagates the norm we have in society in which women are assessed not as individuals made up of like working components of their like emotional self, like past their physical self, then we think this is like incredibly bad.
We also think that it's really bad for women and their self esteem and their confidence.
It forces women to judge themselves by the standards that they think men would use.
This necessarily leads to a world in which I feel infinitely less comfortable eating the food that I want to eat or putting up photos of myself that I feel truly represent myself, because I have to make sure that I look sexy enough on them.
We think that what's even worse than patriarchy using patriarchal norms is that they force women to use those norms as well.
We think that in theory a world in which men just used their standards to assess women in a bubble might be fine.
Like it would still suck, but it might be fine.
But the fact that they force women to use and live under those same standards is infinitely worse and necessarily bad.
But also, recognize that these kinds of website promote gender roles.
Man are pushed to present themselves as hyper masculine and women as hyper ladylike.
Because when you are meeting in regular dating life, you meet the people the person to person and oftentimes in unexerted situations in which they act like they usually would.
But when you're online, you're more likely to pretend to present based on societal expectation.
This necessarily reinforces that norm over and over when scrolling people online.
Even if you don't think that's true, we think it's the case that when people meet on an individual day to day basis it's infinitely harder for us to imagine what all of those people look like, or have a conception of how they might behave.
We think that online dating makes it really easy to just scroll through people's photos and look at the way they present, and construct our social norms from them.
There's no world in which we fool ourselves into thinking that gender rolls might actually be going away.
But second area of clash is about why this is bad for relationships.
First, I wanna talk about catfishing.
Because recognize that it's infinitely easier to lie on the internet than it is to hoodwink someone in real life.
Like in real life, maybe you'll be able to lie about things like your job, but as the relationship goes on it would be very very difficult to continue doing so because that person would just necessarily want to get closer to you.
Meanwhile with the internet there's necessarily more of a standard of an anonymity and like more waiting periods between the person entering your physical life.
Especially since these relationships over all often happen over long distances.
This makes it really easy for someone just continue to lie about their job, or their image, or their name or their voice for a really really really long period of time.
Insofar as they can just keep making excuses as to why they can't travel the many miles to get to you, or they can just lie about where they live in the first place and things like that.
We think this is incredibly manipulative and it hurts people's emotionally and it wastes their time in a way that regular dating wouldn't.
We also think there's a certain amount of separation that a screen creates that makes it more difficult for people to connect with each other on a deeper level.
We think that when you are, when you meet online, you're necessarily built on superficial grounds that like tell you that you have to appear a certain way, or like going to be judged in a certain way, which necessarily doesn't mean that you're connection to someone in the way that you would otherwise.
For these reasons, proud to propose.