Don't ban foreign workers.
Tim puts a lot on this argument of reciprocal obligation.
He talks about how the state only has obligations to its own citizens and not the citizens of other states who might be visiting it as foreign workers.
But the problem is that in order to win on this argument he has to actually show there's a meaningful harm to domestic citizens.
We think at the end of the day, he listed a bunch of stuff that could potentially be unpleasant but nothing that is actually harmful in reality.
We'll get into why his arguments about job security aren't true at all or job trade-off but we also think it's important to note that things like the remittance argument that he makes aren't particularly accurate as well.
Two main arguments: first on or three main arguments first on benefits for the economy.
Recognize that foreign workers fill in for jobs that don't otherwise get filled.
It is a misconception that foreign workers are taking jobs that americans want because we see that the jobs they take are the ones that americans often don't want anyway.
We saw this when fields in the south laid fallow when immigration crackdowns happened in the united states because there is literally nobody to work them.
When these jobs don't get filled that rebounds onto the american economy because it decreases general production of that economy.
For example the fact that those fields didn't produce any food means they didn't go to market, means they didn't get sold, means the farmers didn't get paid, means you don't get the kind of trickle down economics that may or may not work but are often times the backbone of our society.
Not to mention the fact that people just didn't get to eat that food which is bad as well.
Foreign workers are also just often likely to work a lot harder.
They often need the money to send back home, as tim mentions, they often want to show that they're good fit for the job, want to demonstrate work ethic.
Americans are infinitely more spoiled and less productive than foreign workers.
So we think it's important then that foreign workers provide companies with more options of who they want to hire.
It means that jobs can be more competitive and hires know that they're actually getting the best worker and most efficient individual at the end of the day.
Let's deal with tim's argument about remittances now.
We think this literally doesn't matter because the economic output they create by working in the country in the first place far outweighs the potential that goes away when they send money abroad.
Because first recognize that people who send back remittances aren't meaningfully different from those who just put their money in a savings account instead of spending it.
Like at the end of the day, these people still generate a lot of economic activity not just from the productivity they put into the economy when they help produce products or services but also because there are some economic activity that is generated just by them spending money to live.
Like they're still paying rent, they're still buying food, they're still doing things on the weekend sometimes when they need to de-stress.
Like sure some money will leave the economy but if you compare this to what the the actual counterfactual is likely to be we don't think that person is going to be spending so much extra money in the economy that it's going to be significantly better or more economic output.
If anything we think that person is just likely to be unemployed and you have fallow fields in the south.
Our second argument is about social benefits.
We think that contact theory is really important here.
Having foreign workers puts americans in more contact with foreign people which we think is net good.
Like we think the fact that you get more interactions between different groups of people who previously would never get to interact is what subverts the kind of stereotypes that allow for racism or like phobias of different groups of people to grow.
We also think that cultural enrichment becomes really important here.
Like foreigners bring culture with them food, music, different ways of thinking, and we think that that's something that really grows the way that you the united states and citizens without the within the united states or any western liberal democracy think about their country and think about their culture.
Our third argument is just that it is humanitarian.
Foreign workers often come because they can't find jobs or are being mistreated in their home countries.
They can get better treatment and working conditions within western liberal democracies and moreover, we often think those western liberal democracies contributed to the harms that they're experiencing in their home countries anyway.
So if anything it's just net those countries giving back what they ought be giving given how much harm they caused.
Proud to oppose.