Don't decrease automation.
I think the important part of these kinds of debates is always about how long and whether we can effectively actually prevent the kind of things that these rounds want to prevent because sam's entire speech is all about how automation can take over jobs, threaten individuals, and how keeping it from going up will protect people.
And all we have to show in order to beat that is to show that the amount of protection that you can provide is ridiculously limited.
If we prove to you that automation is inevitable and that all you do by decreasing it or legally attempting to stop it is prolong the process but not actually solve the problem, then you're going to side with op because you're going to side with a world in which we face our problems head on, have like a rough period of time where we have to realign and figure things out for society, but get on track much faster than you will be getting on sam's side of the house.
Two main arguments, first on making peoples' lives easier.
Yeah we're going to have a short term rise in inequality as sam says.
It is the case that when you increase automation and you have the replacement of jobs then you're going to have a situation in which the people who previously worked those jobs have a transition period where they have to find an alternative.
But what sam forgets is that this happens with literally any kind of shift in our economic industry.
Like when we switch from being textile based to non-textile service providers, that was a major economic shift that lost a lot of people their jobs and resulted in an increase in inequality but stabilized over time as we were able to reallocate individual labor to places where they were more necessary.
Like we think that this is just a situation that is likely to level out over time as people shift which careers they choose.
Now that blue collar work has been automated, the next generation's lower class aims for interpersonal jobs and other work that is more based in like customer relations or technology management that can actually be done with very limited education but is probably not something that we're going to be able to automate around.
And we also think that the important part here that he forgets is that increasing automation is likely to help with inequality in a lot of ways, mainly by providing equality of access to a lot of services that in the status quo poor people are blocked out of.
For example, the development of robots that can dispense medical care can help an overstaffed hospitals that turn away low income patients.
These things we think are always going to be more important than a short term loss in job security or a short term increase in income inequality, because these are the kinds of things that can support individuals throughout their lives and allow them to actually change the course of their lives so they can break out of those cycles.
I really don't understand sam's argument about the decrease in quality.
It's really unclear what his logic is.
There's no reason that things would decrease in quality.
If anything machines are more efficient and less accident prone than humans so it's likely the quality will actually be higher.
Our second argument is about keeping an honest market.
We value making sure that the government isn't artificially messing with the economy because that's the type of thing that leads to long term economic problems and inequality.
We need to recognize that automation is inevitable even if you can ban it in one country other countries will continue to work on it.
This just means that the US will be less competitive on the global market because companies will go elsewhere where they will be able to where they will actually be allowed to use automation.
This is actually the worst possible outcome because it means both that the US will lose the jobs they do provide and the economic revenue they provide but also because now we'll just have to be paying to import the products that could have been produced in the united states in the first place.
At the end of the day this is a really simple debate about whether or not we're going to value short term over long term and sam hasn't giving you a particularly good reason as to why the short term matters more.
We think the reasons for the long term mattering more are self evident if we're able to create stability over a long period of time, that is something that can continue to keep our economy productive and keep our society well running.
Proud to oppose.