We should limit freedom of speech.
What we mean by this is that we would keep limits from the status quo things like slander, things that could present a clear and present danger like yelling fire in a crowded theater, and we would also add to this limitations on things like hate speech and other inflate inflammatory language.
Two main areas of clash, first on why the freedom of speech is not an infinite right.
Recognize that rights exist as an equalizing structure.
Everyone ought have equal access because everybody has them equally regardless of your race, your gender, or any other identifying characteristic.
It is defined by humanhood, not on any other identity.
The problem is becomes when you are applying a right infinitely, especially with something like speech, is that it compromises other peoples' access to more basic aspects of other rights that they might have.
People can still sufficiently self express without using hate speech, slander, or speech that presents a clear or present danger.
Things that like call you to hurt someone else or calls to action against a certain like person or body and we think that what the difference becomes is that although you can still sufficiently express yourself, the person who you have threatened might have a threat to their personal security so the right to life or threat to their own freedom of speech to a more extreme degree because they can't express anything about themselves once you have silenced them to such an amount.
I think at the point that we shown you that these kinds of things are limited or are potentially limited, we think the way in which they interact in reality allows us to legally limit them in order to protect individuals who cannot protect themselves.
This is why we do things like have governments in the first place because otherwise you would just have a bunch of people running around with the strongest one beating everybody else up and requiring their possessions and whatever else is good.
But our second area of clash is about the prioritization of societal good because even if you don't buy that this is an if this is a right that we can limit, even if you think it is infinite, we think what you probably don't think is that would you probably would agree with is that we prefer a society that is functional and protects other people over one in which a minority get to exercise all of their rights but nothing else works.
So a world in which every single movie theater was constantly in fear of having someone yell fire and have a stampede out the door is probably a world in which movie theaters can't function very well.
Apply this to everything when it comes to government.
So if people could just infinitely do things like slander others and slander politicians and have that taken as truth and have no recourse against them it would be incredibly difficult as it almost is in the status quo to figure out what is true and what is not true.
We think that we care more about marginalized groups' feelings and their ability to feel safe than groups that are already in power exercising free speech.
Hate speech silences minorities and limits their right to travel and other such things by making certain areas off limits.
You don't want to validate those viewpoints by giving them a free space because it empowers them to continue doing so and make more and more people unhappy and unsafe into the long term.
So arguments that say who cares we still think they ought be able to say what they think are probably untrue because who cares if they sat what they think if what they think is actively detrimental to someone else.
This is why we do things like not allowing mislabelling of products by corporations because we don't care if that corporation thinks their product is going to do things like make your hair shine infinitely.
If that's unproven you cannot put that down with full authority.
We think that this applies to humans as well because who knows how you can tell the difference between someone lying or someone saying a belief if those two things are the same thing so when you have politicians who do things like feed into white nationalists by talking about the danger that immigrants present even if those politicians don't believe it oftentimes the people who spout that nonsense do but we ought to treat both equally regardless of whether they are expressing free speech in either regard.
We think the burden is on op to show us some place to show us why this right is absolute where as all we have to do is show you a a example of where it isn't absolute given that this is just a question of whether or not we should limit free speech.
Proud to propose.