We should protect internet privacy.
Two main arguments, first on preventing doxing.
Lots of people get really angry at each other on the internet and it's not just about your basic like interactions, like maybe you'd have in person when you're really mad at someone who's driving slowly in front of you.
These are actually individuals who are able to collect themselves in concentrations of people like them.
So if they happen to be aggressive or emotionally unstable they're likely to be interacting with individuals who are also like that, or individuals who aren't like that but they're already in environment where they feel comfortable being like that or like they don't know who they're interacting with, so even if I'm like a ten year old on the internet I don't know if I'm talking to a really angry sociopathic thirty year old man or another ten year old like me.
So the problem is the internet is one of the few places in which you have contact with complete strangers who are capable of being incredibly unpredictable and incredibly unstable in a way that doesn't happen the same way in reality.
And if privacy is not protected it's really easy to trace someone's internet presence and make it into their like reality location and reality entity.
And we think this is really dangerous because what can be just a regular internet fight for you can be something that deeply offends someone else and they now decide to do things like track you down, like hurt you or harass your or harm your family.
And we think this can get really really predatory.
Like we already see this with women in gaming communities.
We see that it is actually an incredibly unsafe space for them because men in that area see it as an area that is male dominated, they objectify woman fairly aggressively, and you see first of all that this results in less women being in that space in the first place but also that these kind of communities aggregate these people who tend to be more aggressive, who tend to be more sexist.
So we think what would happen on their side of the house if you don't protect internet privacy is that it's a lot easier for one of those men to get a hold of that woman's information and show up at her house and do her harm.
We think this also ends up with like young children.
We think a lot of the time there are individuals on the internet who are involved with crime and we think that sometimes there's like a lot of sex trafficking happens over the internet.
So if you're interacting with a child who doesn't realize how to protect themselves that's something that can be really dangerous for them.
So protecting internet privacy isn't just about like accountability or about a person being able to post hate speech.
It's about protecting people from the individuals who do that.
Because those are the people who are more likely to take action against someone who is innocent.
It is unlikely that innocents are going to take action against someone who is doing bad things.
And so we also just think their safety is always going to be more important by virtue of the fact that they are innocent.
Like sure, we'll let some bad guys get away with being bad as long we protect individuals who really need protecting.
But our second argument is about promoting individual freedom.
Because recognize that the internet has become to mean way more than just a mode of communication or a mode of distracting myself when I'm bored.
It's become a viable path by which individuals self actualize and discover parts of their identity.
And we think oftentimes this is done through things that people would find incredibly embarrassing if individuals were to confront them about it in reality.
Like the kind of pornography that I watch or the videos that I watch or the video games that I play, these are all things that I might find to be shameful or embarrassing just because of societal stigma, but in reality these are ways in which we discover more things about myself.
So we think it would be really problematic because a perceived change in privacy is what makes people feel uncomfortable with accessing the previous forums that brought them joy.
So we think that when internet privacy decreases those people stop feeling comfortable being themselves.
It's also just about the individuals who aren't permitted to do things around their surroundings, so if you don't buy that an individual has the right to be comfortable on the internet and be safe and secure in their private doings we do think you probably ought buy that a child born to homophobic parents in a homophobic area ought be able to access the forms that allow them to discover more about themselves.
Proud to propose.