We should abolish the presidential pardon.
Three main arguments, first on why it is undemocratic.
When the president provides a pardon, he basically flies in the face of all of the laws and democratic will of the people for whom he's supposed to serve.
Because when a person is found guilty and punished for a crime, they receive the punishment the society has communally decided on and essentially consented into.
This is the one thing that is oftentimes, and it needs to be, incredibly consistent within society.
The idea that similar punishments need to be punished in similar ways because just because you have the status of knowing the president or the status of being some type of person does not exempt you from the punishment that you ought be having, the one that everybody in society opts into.
This is why we see massive movements against asymmetric judges and against people who receive different punishments for the same crime, because the one thing that society all consents to is when you have done wrong you ought be punished and here's the punishment it will be.
So when the president pardons, he places the person he pardons above other members of society and deems them above the law.
This is problematic because democracy should be run by the will of the people, not the will of the one person who has enough power to do whatever they want.
This disbalances the government branches because it essentially provides the president with a way to fly in the face of both the legislature and the judicial branch by basically saying even though I know you wrote this law and even though I know you enforce this law, I get to just be the person who flies in the face of all of that.
We think this is really problematic both because it gives an asymmetric number amount of power to the president but also because it now means that we cannot rely on consistency within our legal system.
We can't rely on pushing for a more fair system because there will always be this one factor led by this one person who can just do whatever they want.
Our second argument is about why this is really nepotistic.
Recognize that in order to obtain a presidential pardon, you oftentimes have to know the president in some way.
Like, the the largest and loudest pardons have all been for people who have been relatively wealthy.
All have been for people who tended to have some personal connection to the white house and even though sometimes you do get some like low level pardons for people who just like didn't deserve to be in jail, this is something that happens a lot less often than just some rich person who knows the president personally or like is politically beneficial for them getting a pardon.
And we think this is really problematic because it essentially just says if you have enough of like an upper class leverage, then you just don't have to deal with the same kind of complications or problems that the general population has to deal with.
We just don't think that you should be giving such a tool when it's going to be used in a inconsistent imbalanced manner and so we just think insofar as it is nepotistic, it ought not exist.
Our third argument is about preventing long term efficacy.
Our world runs on a twenty four hour news cycle so when pardons happen, they end up erasing the important topics that often underlie the reason for them.
When people feel like the government is unjust or a law is unjust, they can rile up against the law, but in order to accumulate that political capital and that political will, they often need to be able to rile around some kind of stimulus or some kind of action.
So when the president steps in first, the displeasure about the law can be dissipated before people are able to come together and start political movements because he just pardons the person who was the focus of that movement or the start-up for that movement.
We think that it is better to remove an unjust law than to continually pardon the people who get messed up by it.
And to do that, the groups need to be able to amass the political will which happens when hot button topics stick around in the news cycle rather than being resolved immediately by a president who pardoned them.
Insofar as we want long term efficacious change so that we can protect the people who are going to be accused of this in the future rather than just pardoning the person who's accused of it now, we think we should abolish the presidential pardon.
Proud to propose.