Don't exploit aquaculture.
Three main arguments, first on why it's bad for the ocean.
Yeah nets and fishing lines are bad and often times pollutive, but we think it would be even worse to set aside large chunks of the ocean to turn into literal ocean farms which is what drew's world actually looks like, right?
Because using tanks on land is oftentimes really hard to make the balance work, right?
Like the reason they're not very common in the status quo is because in order to grow saltwater fish the amount of maintenance that has to go into those tanks usually makes the product incredibly expensive.
This is why aquaculture products are so like are so pricey but also the reason that oftentimes people won't buy them because if you're going to be paying that much for something you might as well pay for something that's wild caught.
We also just think that like a lot of the time what happens is that is that even when you do have these things occurring on land that the amount of on land infrastructure to essentially create an ocean on land would create large amounts of emissions and other pollutive byproduct which would be much worse than what we have in the status quo, especially since a lot of the infrastructure for ocean fishing is removable, right?
Like if we have better regulations on private corporations, if we require them to take their plastic nets out after they're done using them, if we ask them to put money into ocean clean up, like all of these things are ways in which we can kind of mitigate the bad impacts that they have in the status quo without trying to just divulge divert the problem into like a different form where they're also going to be super shitty and try and pollute a lot.
When it comes to fossil fuels like we just think that drew is lying to you.
Like he has to prove that people actually switch between the two and he also has to prove that on land large like structures and in ocean like farms are going to produce fewer emissions than when we breed livestock.
We don't think it's likely because sure maybe you're going to have less methane but the byproduct for fish is oftentimes ammonia which is equally environmentally harmful and can actually be worse chemically when these kinds of things end up getting into individuals' food and getting into individuals' lungs and like bodies essentially.
Like that's that's a really reactive chemical that we think would be dangerous for people to be exposed to.
Our second argument is about why it's bad for people's health.
First fish contains a lot of mercury which makes it dangerous to people who are sick or those who are pregnant.
It also can't be consumed by those who are younger for the same reason.
Seafood allergies are also ridiculously common so we think that it's one of those things where like the risk of someone getting sick because they're eating seafood because they don't realize they have a seafood allergy is higher than that same situation occurred occurring if someone's eating meat.
Our third and and when it comes to these jobs like we think that first of all like food demands are going to be the same either way.
It's just a question of how they get met and we think that any system in which you meet those food demands are going to employ a similar number of jobs.
Our third argument is about the trade off of resources.
We think it's more important to exploit other ways of getting sustenance because those are going to be more accessible.
Things like the hydroponic of farming of greenery and encouraging people to go more vegetarian, putting money and energy into lab created meats so that we can have meat and seafood like food without hurting any of the environment or live animals.
Finally just to address this argument on ethics, it's like really unclear if it's accurate first of all because sure mollusks and such might not have brains or suffering but fish, octopus, squid, other forms of seafood have a similar capacity to different on land animals.
We also just don't care about this if it's going to simultaneously worsen like general life quality and like the environment as a whole.
We think that those things are more important than just the potential for it to like not harm animals as much.
Like we don't care about animal rights enough to think this matters.
Proud to oppose.