The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon feminism.
I think we're going to be talking specifically about the united states.
We also mean that you we're not saying that you ought abandon the fight for equality, we're just saying that we should abandon the brand of like the term feminism, like regroup the movement, maybe name it something different, and figure out kind of a different way to operate for numerous reasons as to why feminism in the status quo, the way that it is named makes it first a bad image, but secondly is very bad pragmatically.
As a first I want to talk about the branding issue that feminism currently has, because recognize that there is a massive social stigma around just the word feminism, around the idea of identifying as a feminist or not.
We think that conservatives have been able to spend years building a platform around the idea that the word feminist in itself is something that is coinciding with the idea of female supremacy over men, the idea of oppression of men, something that is like incredibly unfair.
It makes people who might believe in equality turn away from the overall movement because they don't want to be associated with that word.
Like we think a lot of people come from conservative backgrounds but have relatively liberal ideas regarding female equality, but because they grew up in these backgrounds that have been vilified the word to this extent, there's no way for them to ever identify with it or like be able to identify with it with that without facing massive amount of backlash.
And we think that the feminist movement has spent massive amounts of resources de-stigmatizing the word, rather than actually taking action and focusing on furthering the movement to try and meet its goals.
Like we see things like it hiring different actors and actresses to talk about how they are feminists, and why it's not about a word, and like campaigns like feminist not feminazi, and we think that if we were just able to stop explaining this to people over and over again, recognizing that they're unlikely to change their mind either way, and focus on actually being able to do the things that the feminist movement wants to accomplish, then we'd actually be freeing up a lot of money and a lot of time, and we'd also be able to actually be able to do things like gain allies and spread the population.
Because recognize that that's all that a movement really is is like the population that supports it, the amount of money that it's able to gain, and you just can't do that when a large portion of the population is turned off because of something like the name, before they even learn more about it.
We also think that it's really harmful because it's gained these stereotype of being exclusionary to women of color, ignoring intersectionality, ignoring the way that gender is fluid, things like that, which creates fracturing and prevents the movement from being truly representative when individuals don't want to associate with having this movement, not like maybe because they're conservative unnecessarily but because they see it as being like trans exclusionary, or too white.
And so we think this is like very legitimate reasons to not want to associate with the current feminist movement, but something that is easily solvable of the feminist movement no longer associates with the same movement.
This brings us to our second area of clash which is about corruption in the current movement.
Because recognize that the feminist movement as it currently stands is majorly run by rich white women, it's really ignorant of the intersection with race, transiness, class, queerness, etcetera.
And these are issues that are structural, which can only be solved by rebuilding those who are in charge of the movement, those that make the calls.
Like we think if we were able to have groups like the me too movement leader etcetera being able to be like making the priorities etcetera, this would instantly become a more representative movement that more people are willing to join and represent.
Like insofar as times have changed, we think that these movements needs to dramatically move with it, which only happens when you recognize that what works seventy eighty like a hundred years ago no longer works in the status quo, the people who we considered our equals at that time are are still our equals but we've added to their numbers now, and this isn't something that the feminist movement represents right now, but it needs to.
Proud to propose.