The motion for today's debate is that we should subsidize condoms.
We being the united states government.
By subsidize, we think that we would make the the price of condoms very low, IK like ten for a dollar in the majority of areas and make sure that condoms are provided for free at any publicly funded health clinic.
Two main areas of clash: the first on preventing unwanted pregnancies.
Recognize that people use using condoms means they're not getting pregnant, and this is oftentimes like the preferable state if there are people who are going to use condoms in the first place, right?
Like we think that people are going to have sex either way, because this is a biological drive that is very difficult to ignore, especially if you are systematically being prevented from accessing it.
So if you are someone who like actively just never has enough money to buy the pack of condoms then but your desire for sex still exists, it's likely that you're going to play the probability game, because you have nothing to lose in that regard, but also because people are kind of dumb when it comes to sex, and they just kind of have it because they have drives to do so.
But we don't want unwanted children to exist, because oftentimes these are the ones who are most likely to be maltreated or most likely to not be like fully acquired by the system well.
But also we think that the woman's life matters a lot.
We think that you ought be prioritizing a woman's future above this like tiny batch of cells that doesn't even exist yet, when we're like providing condoms.
And so we think that given that there's like a non-zero probability that this woman is going to have sex and that it is without a condom, she will get pregnant, we think that it is important to then facilitate her existence and facilitate her future being able to continue.
We think this is especially important when it comes to underage girls and boys insofar as this to be the largest population that doesn't have the money or access to stores with condoms, but also have the greatest desire to have sex a lot of the time.
We think that this is also the situation in which their life really gets screwed.
Like getting pregnant in high school is something that derails your entire future in ways that could never be predicted otherwise.
Society doesn't treat single mothers and fathers very well.
Often, it means that they don't get the same opportunities that people who did not have children early get.
So, this like might be like job opportunities with regards to people portraying single parents as those who have less time to devote to jobs or whether it's like educational opportunities, it's really difficult to attend college classes if you are also a child, and so we think this is really like bad.
But also, we think that sex is like fundamentally important to individual fulfillment, right?
Like we think that at the point that it's going to come at relatively little cost to the government to subsidize this kind of production and would also be beneficial to the economy insofar as it's like is a production that would occur, then we think that it's actually like fine to facilitate like basic human need and basic human desire in such a way.
Our second area of clash is about the government, like the pertinent government interest in the situation.
Because recognize that unwanted children and single parents oftentimes end up relying on the government systems a lot more.
So doing things like needing public housing or welfare or food stamps oftentimes happens to individuals who like oftentimes disproportionately impacts individuals who have had an unwanted pregnancy.
It also they also end up not being able to function in society as efficiently as they probably could, like, for example, not being able to go to college or get the job they would prefer because they're tied down by the child that they now have.
And the problem is that we like prefer a world in which people get to be as efficient as possible, right?
Like we think it's good when people who are passionate about certain subjects get to explore those passions, because I'm probably going to do a better job of doing what I'm passionate at.
We also think there's an important argument here about how this circumvents the republican like rudeness when it comes to birth control.
Like they don't like abortions, but now less people are going to need them, because the government is subsidizing condoms.
We think it's a bipartisan win-win and anyone who disagrees with it is like actively a problem, right?
Like we think you should just subsidize condoms.
For these reasons, proud to propose.