We don't think that we should be banning home births.
Just is an overarching theme, we think that the role of the government is to maximize the choice of individuals.
This is because that government was selected in the first place based on the aggregation of preferences of a group of people who wanted to live under a rule of law, but didn't want to give up so many rights that they would feel oppressed.
And we think the only way that governments avoid oppression, avoid their people choosing to rise up, etcetera, is through maximizing those people's choice that they may live as freely as possible, even under the yoke of an overarching government.
With that, two main areas of clash.
First on providing a choice.
Recognize that the vast majority of people are going to use hospitals either way, right?
Like that is what general society has propagated, that is what is shown on our TV shows, that is what is advertised by doctors when you come in for prenatal checkups, like every force in society pushes you towards a hospital either way.
Moreover, no doula or midwife will accept someone who is old or sick because that creates liability unto them when something goes wrong.
They don't want to be a like service provider who has bad home births, so there's never an incentive to allow people who are at risk to have a home birth.
With that, all this means is that the majority of individuals who choose it have a really good reason to do so, and are unlikely to have any kind of complication.
Danny says that governments have to regulate this because there are issues of safety, but if we show you that it's not a big enough issue of safety for the government to intervene, we think that there are a lot of examples in which governments don't meet that standard, right?
Like we think that danny had to create a bright line from which we protect that safety and he hasn't done that.
So we think that situations like cigarettes which the government knows are incredibly bad for our safety still don't get regulated, because we see that even if there's a trade-off in marginal security, we still value choice more than that.
And if anything, we think that home births are even less dangerous than things like cigarettes etcetera, so there's even less of a reason to meet that standard.
Now moving into why people might have it.
Like we think that a lot of people have really traumatic experiences with hospitals, with nurses or doctors who didn't listen to their preferences, especially women who are often negated as being hysteric when they come in, like they prefer a warmer environment, like or they have like cultural reasons like the amish who don't go to hospitals as part of their cultural practices.
We think that any three of these reasons are good enough reasons that we ought be providing the options for people to make this choice.
Like we don't think that even if like some people slip through the cracks, some of them really shouldn't be having home births but they still are, it's not worth paternalizing everybody because of a few.
Our second area of clash is why vastly home births are harmless, right?
Like if anything we think it is a positive impact that government that hospitals are going to be less overclocked, like we already have problems, especially in inner cities, where governments are overflowing and lines are too long so you can't provide a good standard of care.
So if some people are taking themselves off the hospitals who are close, we think that it's actually net positive.
But also, we think that if you shove someone into a hospital who is genuinely uncomfortable in that environment, it's infinitely more likely to induce a physical problem.
IE, I'm way more likely to have like stress a stressed out birth or have problems with my birth process if I don't like where I am and I am uncomfortable there.
This is a really sensitive process that is easily influenced.
But also, we think that you can just achieve the same ends without public backlash through information campaigns.
Like if we think that home births are so dangerous, we think that we can release large amounts of information on the part of the government as to why that is true.
We think that on side government, they're creating an unenforceable ban that ultimately does more harm than good and deprives people of choice.
If we show you that you can still tell people they shouldn't use home births, but allow those who need to to use them, we win this round.
Proud to oppose.