We should discourage hormonal contraception.
I think it's really important to clarify that discourage is incredibly distinct from banning this, so there isn't a world in which if someone really prefers hormonal contraception it is refused to that individual.
Rather, what happens is that if someone is first trying to to decide what they prefer in terms of contraception, or if they're considering switching forms of contraception, the things that will first be suggested are things that are non-hormonal or the things that or even if the entire list of potential contraception is presented, the things that the doctor encourages more will be non-hormonal.
Examples of non hormonal would be condoms, spermicide, the use of an IUD, or on the more permanent side of that, it would be sterilization of the individual.
Two main arguments, first encouraging better alternatives.
Recognize the things that I listed: condoms, spermicide, IUD, so on and so forth, are all forms of birth control that are equally effective to things like the nuvaring or the depo-provera shot or the pill, but they don't mess with your hormones in the way that those others do.
This is incredibly important.
Because even though we have gotten so used to changing our hormonal balance, because women have gotten so inundated into this world where the pill is the most common form of birth control, it is for a really problematic reason.
IE it is the case that it is the case that the impact on women's hormones has often been overlooked in these kinds of trials of these contraceptive tools, which is really problematic.
Because a lot of people have incredibly large symptoms in response.
Things like mood disorders that develop, depression and like long term issues that are really really bad.
And we think that what we've done essentially is glamorize the pill to the extent that it is really difficult to have someone choose something non-hormonal unless you actively propagate its benefits and say that it is better than the alternative, which is something that doctors don't do in the status quo.
Recognize also that women rely on doctors to give them advice.
Especially when they are new to birth control or they're very young and it's really dangerous to start right off on hormonal contraception.
Like recognize that a lot of people start birth control as young as like twelve, fourteen, sixteen years old and these are times for your bodies really haven't started to stabilize yet.
Which means the impact of taking this pill and like being this person who takes a hormone regulator every month or every day is something that can be really dangerous in the long term, especially when you stop it but you've had like grown this kind of dependency on it.
So we think that it's generally just healthier and that doctors should promote starting the other way first.
Starting with something that is not hormonal.
Our second argument is about the dangers of hormonal contraception.
I already talked about this a little bit, but recognize that the history that doctors have and clinical trials have with negating female pain and negating female symptoms is runs very very deep with hormonal contraception.
Like recent studies have shown that a lot of women face major depressive disorder issues after starting hormonal contraception and that this was happening all along but doctors would often dismiss it as just hysterical symptoms or something similar.
So it never actually got treated in a way that was necessary or justified.
So we think that that's really problematic.
And we think that individuals deserve to know the full extent of those symptoms.
We think in the status quo, because it's been so normalized, people don't give weight to how dangerous it actual is.
But we want to counter balance that narrative and create a world in which we can have a balanced perception of the contraception that we're putting in our bodies, rather than just being like: " yes.
This is a thing that we're so used to by now that we're going to use it. "
Proud to propose.