We should not subsidize student loans.
To be very clear, our side of the house is not against finding other ways to provide students with an affordable education on the college level.
In fact, I think the majority of this debate is going to be about what is the most effective way to deal with the rising crisis of the majority of well-paying jobs being inaccessible to those who cannot afford a college education within the united states.
But I think, right off the top, we need to recognize that drew's proposal is, by far, inefficient the most inefficient way to spend government money on this kind of issue.
Two three main areas of clash: first, on why there are better better alternatives.
Recognize that subsidizing students' loans across the country, for any college that they attend, are incredibly expensive.
There are billions of billions of students within the united states, each taking on an individual loan.
Recognize that when you aggregate this, this becomes billions upon billions of dollars, and we think that it is infinitely cheaper and infinitely more effective to just mandate that public colleges ought be free.
Recognize, first, that they already receive the vast majority of public funding and are able to keep their prices lower than the average private institution.
This means it would take a lot less money from the government to ensure free education in these kinds of colleges than it would for the government to subsidize the varying levels of loans for students in any university.
I think there's a very clear weighing calculus here.
I don't think it is the obligation of the government to provide students with educations at private universities or ivy leagues.
I don't think it's their obligation to pay for those loans at all.
What I do think is the obligation of the government is to make sure that for that individuals are not barred from education simply because they do not have enough money.
Recognize that in the status quo, it is it is it is like the case that there is a barrier to entry before we even get to like what level of college you can attend, which is always monetary.
And this isn't something that they get rid of on their side of the house, because you still have to be able to afford to get those loans out in the first place.
You're still going to have to pay off something.
You're not actually dealing with the fact that some people cannot afford that or don't look on paper like they deserve financial aid, because we understand that in the status quo, a lot of people are already being handled by universities financially.
I think this is vastly discussion about people in the lower middle class who might not qualify but still want to be able to go to university for an affordable price.
And I think that if we're talking about benefiting the majority of individuals, it is preferable to create entire institutions that are free of charge, that can handle more people, and that can be used as like a " look this is free, either way " kind of thing, so that people coming out of high schools don't feel daunted, rather than spending that money on individual student loans.
I think that this would get all of drew's impacts in an infinitely better and cheaper manner.
Our second area of clash is just about why it's a worse expenditure.
It only benefits students who already made it in.
You still have to take out the loan, you still have to pay a large portion.
It doesn't solve the issue of the expense being too much or of the initial, like, if I am a first generation college student being worried about going to college because of like any price having to exist.
Like I think the only way that we solve this issue without creating a weird solvency in which politicians can talk about how we subsidize the student loans, they don't need anything else, is by making sure that these institutions are free of charge from the start.
We see tons of countries that already do this, anyone from germany to canada, so on, so forth, and we don't think that it would be particularly revolutionary if the united states did as well.
Our third area of clash also supports the idea of free university.
We want to talk about why people have a right to education.
Because we think at the point that this is one of the few ways in which to maintain a stable job later in life, at the point this has become vastly accepted by employers and it's hard to get around without it, we think that it becomes the obligation of the government to make sure that people have access for it.
It's probably my brains that ought determine whether or not I can get through college.
Maybe it shouldn't be how much money that I arbitrarily grew up with.
Proud to oppose.