Yes there are flaws in our current world that make it so that people often do not start off of an equal playing field and oftentimes makes it so that it is easier for those who are born into richer and whiter families to succeed.
This doesn't mean that you abolish the world rather it means that you start to fix it by equalizing that initial playing field.
We think that there are ways to do so without creating a socialist system.
So by allocating equal amounts of funding to school systems and putting caps on the amount that people can donate to them to like a specific district.
We think that this can start by providing medical cost by subsidizing medical healthcare and childcare.
But we don't think that you have to opt for a full on socialist system to do so.
Two main areas of clash.
First on why we think that labor is necessary to a society and that even if it sucks that this is a capitalist society requires you to be productive and measures your value as such that any other society is unfeasible.
So in order for society to function people have to put effort into it if only because if no one is maintaining the roads no one can drive on them and thus people cannot trade goods and suddenly no one is eating because they can't reach farmlands.
And if no one worked those farmlands there wouldn't be food in the first place so who cares if there are roads that take you into empty fields and if there aren't hospitals and people are dying of diseases and you need people to man them.
So if we tout a society that isn't labor based you aren't changing the needs of it you're just changing who fulfills them because currently people are motivated by the idea that is often yes stressful but necessary if I don't create a future job for myself I cannot function in society.
I will not have enough money to live.
But at least it makes everyone a cog that actively supplies goods and services to each other.
The alternative is that if people don't feel pressured to to like give back to society because all of their good all of their needs are provided by others they're much less likely to push themselves to be productive.
This means that a small portion of people are shouldering more work because of some people's lays.
This is unfair 	 because it's currently those people who are shouldering more work would be compensated for it but what tim is advocating for means that even if I'm doing a lot more than my counterparts I'm not getting paid anymore because everyone gets the same basic living wage etcetera.
This is unjust giving that given that it devalues my labor as compared to someone else's lack of labor and says that because someone else is doing nothing they still deserve the same.
Our second area of clash has to do with harms to innovation because a lot of the time the reasons that people are driven to innovate is through market acceptance they want to make money and they want to print like they want to become well off based on this.
When you take away that incentive to stress yourself people aren't going to push themselves to new height because if they're not getting anything out of it why should you stay up night after night torturing yourself why should you do things that are bad for your body in order to come up with the newest discovery.
The problem with this is that we need innovation in order to function as a society because they our needs are changing day by day depending on changes in society.
So oh there's a new epidemic out there we probably need doctors to work on a cure but if all the doctors don't feel like innovating because they're not going to get compensated for it in any way than people are dying off for no reason.
This also applies to areas of technology.
Innovation provides ways in which we can have new technology that makes people's lives better but the only reason that people are going to create it is they're going to feel compensated for it in the long term.
This doesn't occur on their side of the house so you don't get any innovation that can drive society forward.
For these reasons proud to oppose.