We should limit campaign finance.
Our model for this is really simple: we would just put a limit on the fundraising amounts that each candidate running for public office can have as well as an individual limit on how much a single entity can give.
We're fine with ironing out the details of how much this amount is going to be later, the point is just that we think such limits should exist where they currently do not.
So we don't want like national grid to be giving something like millions and millions of dollars to one candidate in order to pay them off.
Like that's the world we're trying to avoid.
So, clearly, these would be reasonable limits.
Like you can still fundraise some, you can still get a good amount of money to fund your campaign, but we just don't want money to play as large of a role as it does in the status quo.
Two main arguments, first on preventing corruption.
When you allow unlimited contributions to campaign finance, you invite special interests into the election and into the government.
This is bad because it skews the priorities of public officials.
Where they should be protecting and promoting the interests of the people, allowing them to receive money from corporations creates an incentive to trade their political capital for that money and support.
This creates a world in which the priorities of public officials stop being the public and start being the corporations that fund them, which is incredibly undemocratic and basically flies in the face of everything that our democracy and elections themselves need to stand for.
It also just means that you don't have people's best interests at heart anymore, so you can't rely on the government to protect people in the same way that they should be.
So then it becomes really unclear as to why people are willing to give up their rights to the government in the first place if the government isn't going to do a good job of protecting them.
We don't think it's worth with flirting we don't think it's worth flirting with the possibility of corruption.
Insofar as unlimited campaign finances are always going to have more of a risk for corruption than limited ones, we think this is already reason enough to vote for government's side.
Like, at the point that money like we know that money definitively can corrupt individuals, we just don't think there's a good reason on side opposition as to why you shouldn't limit them, like insofar as everyone's going to have the same amount of money anyway, which brings us to our second argument about maintaining a level playing field.
We want candidates to get elected because they are the best, not because they have a bunch of money to pay off advertising advertising companies and lie to the general population through the media.
There's a problem in the status quo where some candidates automatically have a much higher probability of election because they will receive tons of money from large corporations in exchange for their cooperation.
This allows them to then do things with that money, like engage in mudslinging and media advertising.
It lets them use those corporations to win votes in areas that are dependent on those corporations.
And it basically just lets them do all of these kinds of things that the other candidates can't, because the other candidates are limited by that money when they refuse to take from special interests and they refuse to like, in the future, vote for their for things and like support those special interests.
We want to even that playing field.
You shouldn't be punished for not being corrupt.
If all candidates have the same general amount of money, the disparity and the differences they can make with that money are much smaller.
Like in the status quo, you can literally have candidates who, because they have no money from large conglomerates, just can't afford to put their image out there at all, sitting right across from candidates that have billions of dollars to play with when they are like constructing their campaign.
And it means that those people don't get defined by their policies as much as they're being defined by their tactics and their lack of money, which is really bad, because there might be tons of people who agree with their policies but they never even get to hear them properly, because of the fact that they're being blocked out by the money coming in from these special interests.
So, basically, we just think we're creating a completely better and different democracy when we limit campaign finance.
Proud to propose.