Don't ban hunting.
Right off the bat I think it's important to note that we are fine with doing things like protecting endangered species, having certain animals be off limits from hunting at all, requiring licenses to go for any kind of hunting during any season, and even categorizing animals based on level of sentience so that we don't get too close to killing something that might be human like.
But what we are what we are not okay is the outright regulation of something that can often serve as a meaningful cultural momentum, a way by which individuals feed themselves and a meaningful way to population control animals that would otherwise get way out of control in a very bad way.
With that, three main areas of clash, first on hunting as a necessary tool.
Recognize first that hunting is often used as a more humane version of animal population control.
We see in areas that have large populations specific animals, so just rural pennsylvania and the amount of deer that they have, that it is actually preferable to allow people to hunt these groups down to a reasonable population rather than doing the alternatives, which would be having only specific like government granted groups hunt them, or do things like poison them which is often times more painful and can have toxic side effects to the environment.
Why is that better?
First, because it means that groups will get to eat them, which we think is always better than just letting a lot of bodies go to waste, but also because when the population gets too out of hand you start having situations that are dangerous both for those populations of animals and for the people in that area.
So when populations of deer get really really high you see a massive spike in roadside crashes because the deer crossed the road in front of your car.
This is both infinitely more painful for the deer than just getting shot but also really bad for the people who end up in car crashes because this animal crossed the road.
Second under this though, recognize that even in areas where you that might not be through desert it is completely legitimate for individuals to find sustenance when they go hunting.
First this is because some meat is not commercially available in large amounts.
Things like venison, arm and other like like rabbit and other small wildlife that you just can't get in store but that individuals might prefer to eat.
But second this can be incredibly cost effective for families that don't have the money to afford regular amounts of meat otherwise.
Because doing something like killing one deer and then having enough meat to last an entire winter in your freezer can be incredibly beneficial for cutting costs for large families who could not afford to have that kind of amount of protein otherwise.
This way they get high quality food without the cost.
Our second area of clash is about hunting as a meaningful activity.
Recognize first that bonding with family through generations is something that we think has fundamental value.
Insofar as the good is idiosyncratic and there's no world in which I can define the good for someone else, this is what we value freedom of of autocracy, then we think that when we have large portions of the population that express their preference to go hunting as a way of family bonding this is equally legitimate to doing something like fishing or hiking or any other activity.
The only difference might be that an animal dies in the process but I'm going to deal with the animal rights argument in a in a second.
Anyway, we think doing things like putting money on making licenses that cost money, can also allow us to create meaningful change by putting that money back into wildlife later.
But our third area of clash is about why animal rights don't exist.
Recognize first and foremost the issue with tim's stance is that he assumes that we have an obligation to respect those right of animals even when this on respected by them.
What I mean by this is that even if this animal right exists in the ethereum, in so far as animals hunt each other and participate in those kinds of cycles of life, what tim did not do is construct the burden for us to give them special deference that they do not provide to each other.
We don't think that there's a higher order desire for fulfilling life that animals have that humans don't get from consuming them.
In so far as we're not doing things like banning sues or any other violation of the animal rights tim constructed, proud to oppose.