We should privatize the postal service.
The model for this is fairly simple.
The government writes up a contract and sells it to the highest bidder and we think that the government can like include whatever it wants in that.
Like we can maintain having set rates based on weight, we can maintain the differentiation between like regular mail versus first class mail, like whatever we think is important about the postal service that the government provides in the status quo, we think we can incorporate into these new contracts.
The important part here is that we need to recognize what exactly the postal service is.
It was meant originally to send letters and make money off of first class classification.
We recognize that even back then most parcels were mailed through third party private companies like fedex or UPS.
But we don't send letters anymore and especially not first class.
So the amount of people who actually use US PS is considerably smaller.
It has gotten to the point where the government loses money on postal service which makes it not worth continuing.
Two main arguments: first on saving government money.
Remember that government money is really just taxpayer money.
It's important to make sure that money is being used in the most efficient manner to provide the most good for the people because otherwise we might as well just leave it in individual pockets so they can decide how to distribute it themselves because they can be the arbiters of their own good at the point that the government is failing.
This means it's pretty much the obligation of the government to make sure that those duties that can be outsourced to private companies get outsourced otherwise they're just spending money unnecessarily because they're too lazy to outsource that labor.
There is no adverse effect to outsourcing the postal service.
There is nothing that the government can do better when it comes to mail delivery.
They can still set the base price for letters and packages.
They could still make sure that every address gets delivered to.
It is opposition's job to show where the unique benefit of the government being the one who owns it comes from.
We don't think it exists.
Not spending that money on the postal service anymore means that money can go in other better places like food stamps or other social safety nets.
Providing for aspects of our society that are actually lacking because recognize that we already see that UPS, fedex, other companies are perfectly capable of taking over the postal services on their own insofar as they've already effectively done so when it comes to like delivering packages so the infrastructure even already exists.
It's just about the government recognizing when it is time for it to check out and allow other people to do the heavy lifting.
Meanwhile that money can benefit people a lot more than getting mail ever will in that it can go towards providing food for people who don't have enough of it, in that it can go to providing healthcare for people who don't achieve it, and all of these are just much larger impacts and needs than having your mail through the government.
Our second argument is about creating more efficient mail services.
The government is clearly incapable of managing any of the changes the post office would need to implement in order to be profitable.
This is because all of the business changes have to go through congress and congress is famous for not being able to get anything done.
Postal services also aren't a particularly hot button topic or something that a lot of people are rallying on either side of.
Democrats side with unions and so don't get don't want to make any changes while republicans don't want to anger the general public when the US PS has to fire some people to become more efficient.
This just result in nothing ever ever getting streamlined when it comes to the postal service.
Clearly these kinds of business decisions need a group of actual experts to manage them rather than a bunch of politicians who are going to be influenced by things other than just what is best for efficiency.
Other countries have privatized their postal service and it's been a really good thing for innovation and efficiency.
People are able to get their packages quickly and cheaply but services also expand more and people get more customizable options like delivery lockers that deutsche post has and other similar things.
Private companies compete in a way that the government doesn't when it monopolizes the postal services and that competition is what drives innovation.
We think because of all this, proud to propose.