The motion for today's debate is that prenatal diagnosis ought be mandatory.
First some framing.
Yes, we admit on side government that a large majority of these tests are going to come out negative.
But we think the fact that you can save a few lives, that you can make a few lives easier with regards to prep, is always going to outweigh.
Because in the end, this test is going to be harmless, but having these having having the knowledge of how to prep for your baby's soon care is always going to be more important.
But secondly, on the debate about whether we care about the parents' rights or the child's more, we think that it is always more important to prioritize a child's safety and a child's long-term well-being above a parent's short-term bliss before the emotional damage of hearing the disease of your child has.
We think at the point the child's defenseless, less mature and more and more likely to get this potential harm, we always prioritize what's going to be best for them.
Two main areas of clash: first on why better prep is both better for the family and better for the baby.
First, let's talk about prenatal care, because we think that something that prenatal diagnosis gives is the ability to better control the environment that your child is in before they are born.
Because a lot of diseases are controllable or manageable or the progression can be stopped by changing the way that you behave while your child is still in utero, things like changing your diet, changing your lifestyle.
All of these seem microscopic but actively change the way that your child develops, and we think that having a prenatal diagnosis allows you to change the way that you live your life in order to better like work with the baby.
We think that it is often crucial to stop or control the progression early and actively changes at the way the child can live the rest of their lives.
But second, let's talk about the prep for postnatal.
Because we think doing things like being able to save money for costly treatments that occur after the child is born, organizing childcare, buying material so that you don't have to scramble the last second to make sure that the things your child needs to survive are in their bedroom, all of these are ways to spread out the burden over time and are only accessible when you have a prenatal diagnosis.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that sometimes parents are scared, and they say, no, because they are afraid of the potential results and want to believe that their child is healthy.
We think that you ought burst this bubble because in the end, you're going to be able to prep for your child's like existing in this world and prevent that last minute scrambling better on our side of the house.
But also, we think that in the end, it allows them to prep emotionally.
We think that we prefer a world in which parents get an earlier shock, but it is less intense, because they now have the entire rest of the pregnancy to prepare than when they get it all at once as the child is being born, and they have to juggle all of these responsibilities the same time as dealing with the massive emotional harm.
Our second area of clash is why we think we make this process cheaper and more accessible to other people on our side of the house.
We think making something mandatory necessitates making something affordable.
We think that on our side of the house, you're going to have government-subsidized funding for this.
You're going to have corporations that recognize that this is now there is now a demand for it and work on producing cheaper technology.
You're going to have programs that even if the government doesn't subsidize, are going to be willing to subsidize it for you.
All of these are things that allow for this to become accessible to individuals who just couldn't do it before.
Because in addition to the emotional reason, we think sometimes people say no to prenatal diagnosis simply because they cannot afford it.
And so, if we show you that we are able to create a society in which more people are able to afford a prenatal diagnosis, we think this is always going to be more important than any one individual's rights or one individual preference, as long as we show you that it's going to be long-term cheaper, long-term more accessible, and long-term more helpful for society.
For these reasons, proud to propose.