Don't end development aid.
I think, to be very clear here, were still fine with having things like tied aid, where you require strides to independence regarding development, IE maybe your development aid is required to be used for investment in specific sectors, we think the problem with what danny is saying is that the examples he brings up are oftentimes food aid or medical aid, which isn't actually considered development aid, whereas development aid is specifically considered aid that is supposed to develop your country and allow it to move more towards being developed rather develop-ing.
Two main areas of clash, first on obligations.
We think vastly that developed countries are the reasons that the majority of developing countries are developing.
Especially the united states.
They practice massive resource extraction, imperialism, they have current international regulations on the environment.
All of these things mess with the ability of developing countries to fully develop.
We saw US intervention in south america, we saw a military intervention in afghanistan, we saw the way that we literally created liberia, all of these are examples of ways in which countries that are currently attempting to develop were stunted from the start by the way that the united states treated them.
We think that insofar as this is something that we have broken, we should probably strive to fix it.
This is just the basic idea that like if I'm someone who caused a problem, it becomes my responsibility to make sure it doesn't exist.
Moreover though, we think that if you want a second layer of obligation here, it is also the case that we can just cause a problem, we also benefited off of it in many many ways.
Recognize that when you told south america like countries in south america to plant massive plots of corn, that completely prevented them from being able to diversify their resources and provide for their own people.
But we were able to buy corn at really cheap prices, that's something that benefited us but prevented them from being able to meaningfully develop.
So we think that insofar as these are things that like we were like we abused like those countries and those countries expectations in order to benefit ourselves then it becomes our obligation to make sure that they are able to be more developed now.
Our second area of clash is about the ability, about like our ability and the way in which it causes positive impact.
Because sure, there are always going to be arguments about having our own problems and issues.
Like we understand that america has a lot of homeless people and its own issues with poverty.
But recognize that these are issues more about fund allocation then fund existence.
IE the US has enough money to solve all of these problems that they enlisted, but it has it makes an active choice not to when we do things like allocate millions and millions of dollars out of our budget to military expenditure while we have homeless people on our streets and a lack of food security.
We think the problem that happens on their side of the house is that these kinds of, what he's basically saying is that other countries ought suffer because of the fact that we can't solve our own political mess.
So we think what happens is that we just never actually fix the problems that dan listed on that side of the house, we just don't help other countries fix their problems either.
We also think there's a question of higher order pain versus lower order pleasure.
We think the worst off people in a lot of developing countries are a lot worse off than people in the united states.
What we mean by this is that is that there's like a net utility thing going on here.
Like if we were going to talk about how every person was going to benefit from this kind of aid, we think that this aid going to these countries is oftentimes able to do things much more dramatically.
First because the dollar just means more in these countries.
It can buy more food than it can buy in the united states, it can build more houses, it can be much more long term stabilizing when you can do things like buy livestock.
But the money just doesn't go as far when you use it in the united states so it won't be able to benefit people as much.
But second, because people are often in much worse circumstances in a lot of these countries.
Like even the poor in the united states are often times much more privileged and we think that we do have an obligation to help the worse off first.
Proud to oppose.