Don't fight illegal immigration.
Three main areas of clash, first on why borders are unjust.
Recognize that the area in which I am born is possibly the most one of the most arbitrary characteristics about me.
Nobody asked me where I wanted to be born, and I'm not provided with particularly much ability to change that after I am born.
These are things that are often limited based on my class, my gender, my race, any number of factors that are also arbitrary, but that compound in order to create the most arbitrary characteristic of all, and unfortunately often the most unchangeable.
Moreover, these borders are often limited are often drawn on weird lines.
Let's look at like europe and asia, in which in in which like literally the majority of those lines were drawn by colonialist powers that nothing about the cultural preferences about the people that they were controlling or changing.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that they're always going to be defending a system at its root that is fundamentally unjust.
Even if there is a law, if that law is based on unfounded principles, we don't think there is a point to uphold it just for the sake of upholding it.
This is why we do things like riot against abortion regulations that we think that they are unjust.
Because even if it is the case that it is the law, the law has no value unless it is just and unless it is supported by the people.
We think that insofar as this is something that is founded on unlawful principles, on principles that strip people of their agency, we don't think it's something that we ought be helping.
Recognize that people get stuck in really awful situations because of the lottery of birth.
Countries that are incredibly stingy with their immigration quotas, even when they have the resources, refuse to take these people in, and the majority of the time they're actually left with no other option but to cross the border illegally.
We're fine with a world in which we keep these laws in place and in which really blatant offenses of large numbers of people are deported and sent back.
We're not fine with a world in which we're spending millions more dollars on on raids, on scaring people, on deporting children.
These things we think are incredibly problematic and bad for general society as well.
Our second area of clash is about the propagation of bad stereotypes.
Recognize that more fighting of illegal immigration affirms the idea that this is something dangerous or bad.
This tends to generalize into anti-immigration sentiment as a whole, because people are really awful at discriminating.
We saw this with the mass amounts of backlash against legal mexican immigrants, the time that trump was doing his thing about why we ought build a wall.
This interacts with sam's arguments about how there's a political cap, there's political capital that ceases to exist if you are like that that ceases to exist for good immigration if you're not fighting illegal immigration.
The problem is that until you normalize immigration as a whole, until you normalize immigrants as a whole, and until you treat illegal immigrants as humans, there is no reason to treat other people from the same country of origin as humans even if they came there legally.
Moreover, you lose the solidarity of legal immigrants with illegal immigrants on their side of the house, which means you get a lot less political capital for future illegal immigration or amnesty pushes.
Because if I'm getting into problems because there are people from my country who came here illegally, I'm infinitely less likely to ally with them because they're creating a more difficult life for myself.
But our third argument is just about the collective costs of like of fighting illegal immigration.
Because sam likes to pretend that illegal immigrants are so bad for us, but in reality we rely on them pretty dramatically.
As sam says, this kind of thing would take millions and millions of dollars more, which we think is money that could be better spent in other ways on providing for a country that has a very high poverty rate and surprisingly high homelessness rate.
Moreover, recognize that illegal immigrants are incredibly productive.
Like we saw as soon as there was a crackdown on illegal immigration that fields in texas laid fallow because they literally had no one to farm them, because as much as the american population pretends they want those jobs, they really really don't.
Moreover, they pay taxes without the government benefits and provide cultural diversity.
All of this interacts with government obligation arguments, because if what you are doing is actually more harmful to your people and your country, then you're not fulfilling any obligation about doing it.
Proud to oppose.