We should protect snowden.
We would mean the US government, what we mean by protect is that we would offer him free return to the united states without any kind of threat of legislation against him or any criminal record, and we would like presumably offer him with some form of like security to make sure that nobody else is able to harm him as well.
Three main areas of clash, or two main areas of clash.
First on the importance of whistleblowers.
Recognize that whistleblowers are one of the only ways of maintaining an informed democracy.
This is because the government always has an incentive to be secretive, insofar as they often have different incentives, such as staying in power or maintaining security of a personal privacy, than maybe the common voter would.
But we think that the population has a right to know either way, because this is something that directly impacts them, because it is a government acting that they elected into office, because the government is meant to represent them, and when the government is not acting in that way they need to be able to have a way to counteract that.
But you can never counteract that or act as a check on the government unless you have the information in the first place.
So we think that whistleblowers serve as a really important method or tool by which we obtain information the government would never provide us with of their own volition.
We also think that it serves as a certain kind of deterrence on the government.
Insofar as the government understand that there's always a risk to leak information, always a risk that they might get in trouble for what they are doing, they are infinitely less likely to do the kind of bad things that we really dislike, like shitty surveillance or like data collection that might be really pernicious.
And so we think that what happens is every time there is a new whistleblower, it reaffirms to the government that they are not doing something that is good, but also that they cannot guarantee getting away with this in the future, so it disincentivizes that action.
Our second area of clash is about preventing bad whistleblowing.
Because recognize that there are different ways to blow the whistle, you can do it in ways that are generally not dangerous.
In these situations you don't release the material that would put active members in danger, you would go through a reputable source that would've fact checked you and checked the security issues, or you can do it in the way that is dangerous, which is info dumping on wikileaks, like doing everything really quickly through non-reputable sources.
So when there's a crackdown on whistleblowing, whistleblowers still exist.
They just info dump in more dangerous ways to protect themselves, so they'll travel to the other country first and then be like " wikileaks, you'll take my information even if new york times no longer will, how about I just leave everything here? "
.
This is really bad because it puts actual people in a lot of danger.
IE, if edward snowden's material had contained the locations of active members in the way that chelsea manning's did, then this would mean that those active members were likely to get killed or suffer, or it would put in danger future government operations.
And so we think that it becomes really really important to deter poor whistleblowing, and the only way in which you do this is by providing less severe punishment to those who do it right.
And it's really important to independently have a legal designation of good versus bad whistleblowing for other reasons too, and that lumping them together means they take less care of how they distribute info, but also it means that other countries don't know how to distinguish between who can they protect versus not.
So a lot of countries protect whistleblowers and will take whistleblowers who are coming from the united states, but if they're able to see that that whistleblower put people in danger, did it wrong versus right, we think we'd get more cooperation.
There's also just less political efficacy to spend when you are trying to persecute or prosecute every single whistleblower, rather than just the ones who are the worst.
Like recognize that edward snowden did everything right, he went to the new york times, he didn't release any like specific private data, like this was possibly done in one of the most correct situations because it had to do with privacy rights.
Insofar as all of those boxes are checked, we think he ought be protected.
Proud to propose.