We should tax remittances.
What we by this, basically, is that the country that the money is leaving in the form of remittances should take a tax or a portion of that money before it is allowed to leave.
We don't think that this should be particularly high, we think it should reflect the sales tax in states that have a fairly low one, but we do think that it ought exist for a couple of reasons.
Three main ones, first, on tax philosophy.
Sending money outside of the economy does nothing for the economy that you're in, which maybe would be okay if we bought into the idea that every single person owns all of the money that they earn.
The problem here is that first, you earn that money with the support of different social structures.
Like your job could not have existed and you could not have gotten to it without things like roads, without the government protecting groups from crime, all of this effort that is built in.
And sure, maybe someone might say that the response to this is that income tax happens.
The problem with that is that individuals aren't just subject to income tax when they are given money.
Sure, income tax is what is taxed directly off of your income, but when individuals go to spend that money, that is the whole point of things like the sales tax, or if you're buying alcohol or cigarettes, taxes that are specific to that.
It is just not the case that once you receive your money it belongs to you with no strings attached.
What is often the case is that when you spend that money in the same country, it gets taxed, and when you send the money out of the country and the people you send it to use it, it gets taxed.
So it's incredibly important then that the country of origin of that money gets benefited, because it's not going to receive the benefits from that money it would usually receive from other money, through sales tax and through the things that I described.
And we think that taking it taking this money out of the equation and by sending it to another country, also impacts a lot more people than just the center.
What we mean by this is that when you take that money out and it doesn't get impacted by those other taxes, that's money you're directly taking out of the pocket of government welfare services, and of other things that it would be allocated to.
Also out of the individual who you would have bought goods from, who would've been gotten paid.
Like the entire essential like train of the way that purchasing works would get disrupted when you send it out of the country, and we think that is worth paying remittance.
Our second argument is about how it is bad for the economy.
When you have remittances leaving and you aren't taxing them, it is really difficult to track how much money is available.
And even when you are tracking them, and even when you are taxing them, it is incredibly difficult.
So we think the tax essentially just makes up for that difficulty.
Because when you aren't able to track your money, it's really hard for you to use economic tools like inflation and deflation to manage unemployment and things like bubbles in the economy, because you don't understand how much money you already have in the economy, and the government doesn't have the ability to control those things as precisely as it needs to.
This is really bad, because it means that your government's economy is generally just going to be more bumpy than one in which we could track that money more effectively.
So we think that a tax is worth that kind of complication.
Our third argument is about doing good things in the country.
Recognize that this is actually a really really large amount of money, even if the amount that you tax every individual remittance is very small.
In twenty fourteen, over four hundred billion dollars left the US in the form of remittances.
So even a small tax would really add up and contribute to things like social welfare.
You can put that money into things like infrastructure spending, social safety nets, and we think that insofar as the state has an obligation to its own citizens, and and those within its borders first, you should make use of all of the tools that you could be making use of, including the taxation of remittances.
Proud to propose.