Don't and censorship.
I think essentially what this round is is opp advocating for the status quo, in that we are fine with the current US situation.
Swearing on radios, nudities in the newspaper and television, large nude ads in public spaces, all of these things, we think, need to continue to be banned and kept out of the public eye.
But what we are not okay with is additional censorship that we've seen in recent times of speech of the internet, of a lot of other things that like other countries engage in, so on and so forth.
So two main areas of clash, first on cultural sensitivity.
I think it is important to acknowledge that the united states is a multicultural country that includes many different religions and many different groups with different value systems.
What this means is that it is not unlikely that individuals exist in spaces who do not who have like very legitimate cultural or religious reasons to not want to see things that we might consider to be obscene.
So if I'm a hasidic jew it is not something that I may do to look at women were scantily clad.
If I am a like conservative muslim, this is also sense true.
Like we think that people have plenty of reasons by which they just don't want to see these things in public, and we think this is a claim that is like very very pertinent insofar that has to do with something like religion that defines their identity in such a way.
We also think that parents have a right to mold their children.
Insofar as children are a product of their effort their imprint on the world and when we see that the state is not allowed to do things like seize kids without reason, like we see that the state cannot infringe on individual parenting and cannot institute the way in which parents have to parent.
It's very fair then that we like have this general accepted right norm in society that parents are the arbiters of their children.
It is then also very fair parents were not want them exposed to obscenity and other kinds of things until they are older.
If I am someone who holds us to be a part of my value, if I'm someone doesn't want to engage with these conversations of my children so early, if I don't want them to like talk about these things and school and get in trouble, all of these are valid reasons for me to not want these things to be in public spaces.
We think essentially what a lack of censorship does is that it puts these kinds of things more in the public eye and makes it more easily accessible for individuals that we'd say probably shouldn't be accessing them.
So we think what happens on their side of the house is that you're basically saying: " hey, like a lot of different groups of people, we're going to prioritize some individuals' desire to see these things, or like desire to not have censorship, over your personal comfort and over your personal preferences. "
Our second area of clash is about providing choice.
Because we think that some sort of material, the majority of the time is still available, it's just not through obvious avenues.
So even though the photo of the skater ice skater who had a nip slip is not available in the united states on the front page of the newspaper, if you google it is still something that you are able to see.
And we think that what this does is it creates a really good choice for individuals.
IE those people who choose to consume this kind of media still can, but people who don't want to are not forced to.
It is infinitely easier for me to get on the internet and google this and find it than it is for me to look away if it is something that is put directly in front of me or stimuli I am directly confronted by.
So we think that we are always going to prioritize that higher order discomfort over the lower order pleasure of someone who wants to see these kinds of things in public.
It's a lot worse to have to face something that is triggering or potentially corrupting rather than to click and extra link on the internet or not have a publicized advertisement.
We also think that there are just like pragmatic harms to children.
A lot of these things have underlying self sexual and cultural norms that can be very objectifying and very harmful, and that's media that we don't think that kids ought be exposed to.
Proud to oppose.