The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish zoos.
Two many areas of clash, first on animal rights.
Because, we think that it is arbitrary to be born as a human, and think of yourself as superior to other animals, just based on your species.
In fact, we think that it is not only arbitrary, but also uncontrollable.
At the point that, I didn't choose to be born as a person, and presumably a monkey did not choose to be born as a monkey, we cannot we must evaluate this behind what would we have wanted, had we been born as the other, given that there was an equal chance of that happening.
But we also think that, all the other metrics by which we evaluate rights in humans, animal share in.
At the point that, they suffer in the same way that we do, in the point that family bonding occurs among groups of dolphins, or even groups of cats, at the point that they communicate with each other, and clearly have preferences and desires, we don't think there's anything left for those who do not believe in animal rights to stand on.
Okay, so they'll come up here and they'll say: but these animals are less intelligent than us.
But the problem with this is that, we account for people who are less intelligent.
So, it doesn't make sense for us to not account for animals who are less intelligent.
At the point that a baby has as much capacity as a monkey, or even less, why ought I protect baby rights, but not a monkey's rights?
If you don't buy the baby example, we think that spaces are created in human society for those who are mentally deficient as well.
In fact, we afford them more rights, because we recognize that they cannot stand up and protect themselves.
We think at the point that there are literally human beings, who have the same mental capacity as monkeys, or dogs, or cats, but we still afford them rights, then we have to afford them for animals as well.
Our second area of clash is why zoos are an unjust infringement on those rights, but also bad in other regards.
First, we think it curtailed the rights that animals do have.
If humans have rights like the right to movement, the right to life, the right to self actualize, or the pursuit of happiness, we think that if animals are seen as essentially equal, then they have those same rights.
What this means is that going into the wild, and trapping a hyena, is infringing on their right to live a free and uncurtailed life.
But even if you don't buy that we're bridging some rights, we think that the fact that we actively harm animals, by putting them into zoos, is enough to overcome all of that.
At the point that being cooped up in a cage, that is hundreds of miles smaller than the open seas, that whales and other large sea animals are used to, actively destroys the physical development of of their fins, and at the point that, wolves, and other large animals, atrophy their leg muscles early, because they do not have the same amount of space to run around in, but we think that physical harms our justification enough to abolish zoos.
But we think that emotional harms count too, right?
We think that tearing apart family units, that leave animals unable to sleep at night, or howling for long hours, or like actively showing signs of missing the animals who are taken away from them, are also grounds for protection, right?
We wouldn't accept it, if someone walked into my home, and took away my sisters and brothers, from my mother and father and said: this is just the way it is, you stay here.
We think the same applies for animals, just because they can't protect themselves, just because people are stronger than them, does not mean that they ought be torn apart.
We think at the point that, just because there are people who are stronger than me, does not mean I give up my rights, we don't think animals do either.
But if you don't buy that, we think that there's a higher order pain verses lower order pleasure trade off, right?
At the point that we recognize that, animals suffer because of being in zoos, but all humans get is a little bit of pleasure, we think the trade off falls in a way that animals ought not suffer, because humans don't suffer from a lack of zoos, but animals do suffer from being in zoos.
For these reasons proud to propose.