Don't abandon social media.
James forgets that the traditional forms of communication and connection he talks about are things like phones and letters, which can work on which can work on a short-term individual level if those people are actively present in each other's lives at the time but are no longer functional once you want to connect with multiple people or want to keep in touch with people who aren't actively present in your life.
It is not the case that social media is simply about posting highlights of your life and snooping on others, rather it is about maintaining intricate connections between people across large amounts of distances and long amounts of time.
And even if these connections may seem like they are built off of just seeing the highlights of another person's life, we think it is actually much more meaningful when it also means that you can be an active participant in those people's lives, even as you are no longer active participants in each other's lives in reality.
And that is something that we think is especially valuable now when people can be so lonely constantly switching jobs, constantly moving areas, but you can maintain these connections that, back then, simply wouldn't have been possible to maintain.
James also talks about data collections and sale, but this isn't unique or exclusive to social media.
Amazon also data mines and sells that data, as do extensions like honey or wikibuy.
You have to be able to evaluate social media outside of the data that they collect or the way in which they keep their services free.
This is especially true because we think that individuals can opt out of social media if they so choose.
Plenty of people choose not to have a facebook account because there is no world in which a facebook account is necessary for your life, rather it is just that maybe you are someone who prefers to have one because you enjoy it.
We also just don't think that things like targeted advertisements are actually that harmful to individuals.
Like, at the end of the day, I'd rather see something that is actually relevant to myself rather than just random advertisement for things that I never need.
Two main arguments, first on why they are good for societal relations.
First, I think it is incredibly important that social media allows you to keep up with people both across distance and across time, because it is often the case that we meet individuals who we like and care about, but these people are transient within our real reality physical lives.
And so being able to follow them, into like the rest of their lives, on social media, is really useful, especially since you can maintain things like networking connections, but also just friendships.
Like being able to comment on someone's wedding or their baby photos, even when you haven't talked in a while, allows you to maintain connections that otherwise become very awkward, right?
Like maybe I've been friends with someone for a while but if I don't see them for ten years and I don't keep up with their lives, it can often be very awkward to reconnect after that time, and facebook and other social media allows that awkwardness to dissipate, because you still have some baseline updates to keep a conversation off of.
It's also a better publicization of group events and organization.
Like we think it's really nice that it actually organizes what you can do in your area, what your friends are doing, these are things that translate from the internet into reality in a really positive way.
James talks about government targeting.
We just don't think this is much of an issue, given that people are fairly service level on social media, but also they'll just find a different way to target you, like through your phone calls and such.
We also just don't think that the echo chamber radicalizes the way that the way that james says.
Like at the end of the day, all of us are in echo chambers, just because we surround ourselves with people who have similar views.
Social media might exacerbate that but we don't think it does so to a meaningful extent.
Their second argument is about how you have other our second argument is about the other pragmatic goods.
We think that it makes it easier to access information.
You get more advertising for events, and social gatherings, and charities.
You also get a lot better messaging platforms.
Like things like message groups vastly originated with facebook messenger, because it was really bulky to do in texts.
And plenty of people almost exclusively use facebook messenger because the platform is so much better than regular texting.
James is worried that people curate their lives that they put up and maybe this is true, but insofar as everybody is in on that, we don't think that it uniquely affects someone harmfully.
Proud to oppose.