The motion for today's debate is that we should limit executive compensation.
What we mean by this is that we would tie executive compensation directly to the minimum wage.
So we would make it about like, let's say, fifty times the minimum wage, and no one could ever go above it if you are an executive at any kind of corporation, whether it's like economic or like, I don't know, manufacturing, etcetera, like if you hold the title of executive, you cannot make more than fifty times the minimum wage.
Three main areas of clash: first, on creating an incentive to raise the minimum wage.
Recognize that, currently, there is never an incentive to care about people who earn the minimum wage, because you are completely unaffected by their struggle.
Meanwhile, those who earn a minimum wage have the least political power to create change insofar as they often don't earn enough money to lobby or bribe or meaningfully contribute to political campaigns, but second, because they don't have the political networking that would allow them to be politically active in a meaningful manner.
Like, at the point that politicians tend to only care about how much money you can give them or whether they know someone who like who your parents went to college with or whatever, then we don't think there's a meaningful access point by which people who are below the poverty line or earning the minimal minimum wage can access that kind of representation.
But meanwhile, recognize that it allows for an abusive minimum wage that people can't live off of.
Like we don't think that if the minimum wage was tied in pennsylvania to like the amount of money that an executive makes, that it would still be seven dollars per hour.
Recognize that executives have a desire to earn as much money as possible, which means that they're actually going to be like willing to do things like lobby politicians, but more than this, they're actually the ones that have the ability to do so.
They're people who went to elite universities, and have like the monetary power, and often come from families that have money, and so can actually advocate for a higher minimum wage so their own salary goes up, and therefore having this like unintended but very positive consequence that the general minimum wage will increase.
Our second area of clash is about incentivizing more socially good careers.
We think that people rarely become executives because they are passionate about that field, rather they do it because they like the bonuses that come along with it and they like getting paid a lot.
These are like very intelligent individuals, and we think that their intellect would be preferably used in more socially beneficial fields, and if we removed the wage from the equation, they would be infinitely more likely to go into these comparatively better fields.
Like we think a lot of the time people who enter colleges feel pressure to pay off the college education they just spent on and also feel pressure to like fulfill a future in which they earn enough to be comfortable, then we think that oftentimes, when making that weighing calculus, the future wages are actually a really big deal.
So when you make those future wages comparable to other fields, such as social work or teaching or even science and doctoring, then you're necessarily more likely to go into those fields.
And those fields have the outside benefit of being incredibly good for like people and society overall.
We think that there's generally an oversaturation of executives right now, and we would prefer to like kind of thin out that crowd and redistribute the personal resources to fields that would need it more.
Our third argument is about the reallocation of company money.
Recognize that executives earn too much and thus, suck up a lot of company funds.
Like, oftentimes, any leftover profit tends to go rather than to like needs of the company or people who don't earn as much money in it, it goes to like massive holiday bonuses that feed executives' pocket.
We think that there's an incentive to keep everyone else's bonus and wages low and any kind of like company infrastructure unmet, because you're necessarily taking money out of your own pocket when you fulfill those other needs.
We think that we remove the only any personal investment in not giving money to other workers when we when execs recognize that their own salary cannot go higher than it currently is.
We think this means you necessarily pay other workers more and more money trickles down, and you're also going to do things like take on projects for the company itself, like opening branches in other places and rebuilding your like lounges, etcetera.
For these reasons, proud to propose.