We shouldn't increase the use of public spaces.
All we're defending here is that there shouldn't be an action on the part of the state to increase the use of public spaces.
We think their current level of use is indicative of what people prefer to be doing, and we don't understand why there should be an action to change that if people are currently satisfied.
I'm sure that government talked a lot about how increasing the use of social spaces has the potential to increase social interaction, and make people exercise more, and have all of these benefits, but we think that those benefits aren't mutually exclusive to the use of public spaces, they're just exclusive to individuals having more interaction, on net, or going to the gym more often.
And at the point that that's true, we think that we can have messaging on the part of the government or on the part of the education system that those are good actions to take independently of anything else.
And I think, at the end of the day, people can choose where to take those actions on their own.
Like I know that physical fitness is good for me, so I keep a yoga mat in my apartment and I will work on it every now and then, and I don't necessarily need to go to a park in order to accomplish that, and it is my preference to not.
Two main arguments, first on why it is dangerous.
When you increase the use of public spaces, you increase the risk in those areas naturally, just because there's more foot traffic.
So, first, this just creates more targets for crime, IE, if I'm a pickpocket, I want to be in areas with high population density, which means I'm often going to be occupying public spaces, especially ones where you're increasing their use.
But second, it just means that people who are going about their daily lives and whose daily lives include crime will do so in those spaces more often.
And this ranges things from things like sexual assault and harassment to drugs and other type of crime, and this just occurs by virtue of higher traffic and human interaction.
So we would rather decrease those chances and those risks as much as possible.
Our second argument is that it is expensive and unnecessary.
If you increase the use of public spaces, then all of the associated costs of that location increase.
Maintenance becomes more expensive because it is needed more often.
You have to police it more effectively and more frequently, so you have to pay for that security and that policing.
And we just don't think that this is money well spent on the part of the state, because it comes from the taxes of the people, especially when there are more pressing issues to deal with, like making sure that there are less people who are suffering from food insecurity, or shelter insecurity, the provision of education and healthcare.
Like, at the end of the day, we think that people can survive without public spaces in a way that they can't survive without having access to education or basic needs like food.
At the end of the day, we think that if people wanted to be using public spaces more, they would.
And moreover, there are private spaces that people often prefer to use for socialization and recreation, whether this is your own home, a mall, or something like a private park or gym.
If there's a sudden upshift in public space use on its own, then obviously the government should adapt to that, but we don't think that the government should instigate artificial action to raise the use of those spaces if it doesn't need to, which is what we think government is advocating for here.
At the end of the day, all of the benefits of public spaces can be obtained by telling people to take part in the actions we want them to be taking in those spaces, but the harms are large enough that we don't think it's worth it to force more increased use.
Proud to oppose.