Don't privatize the military.
Look sam's burden this round is really high because he has to show that all of the regulation he keeps talking about will actually occur.
Because we agree in an ultimate world in which a private corporation got to run the military but the US government got to call literally every single shot, maybe that is something that we would be okay with.
The problem is that in reality this is simply not the way that it works.
What happens in reality is that sure the US government might get to call the large shots like when we go to war and where we deploy troops and things like that, but all of the day to day functioning that molds soldiers and molds military action more broadly is something that those private corporations get to take hold of.
Which we think is incredibly dangerous given how much power the military actually holds in terms of the way that it molds public view of the united states, the way that it molds the way that citizens interact with the government, and the way in which it can take action that changes the way the US is perceived globally.
We also just think that at the point that you have even the risk of a lack of oversight, that's already enough to vote for us because the status quo doesn't actually have a negative effect.
Like all sam does is list a bunch of ways in which there's a lack of efficacy where there could be more, but we don't think that this is actually something that is harmful in reality.
We think that it is okay to be less than a hundred percent efficient if you are keeping mindful of the kind of things that we think become more important in these situations like interpersonal relations and empathy and the people who actually serve the military.
Like best case scenario, he thinks that the american public spends too much money on the military, but we think it's going to be subsidized by the government either way.
At that point this is just a debate about who's going to do a better job and what version of better we think is important.
Three main arguments, first on a lack of accountability.
Private corporations are notoriously nontransparent.
They're really difficult force to do anything, very difficult to request to obtain information about the inner workings once they've started.
It means that just as much as sam might say there will be oversight there will never be enough oversight, especially not as compared to just the government owning it directly.
This leaves the government in the country vulnerable.
, when the military answers to the company that owns them rather than the government it's easy for anti-government or anti-particular group of people plots to rise.
A coup is infinitely easier if the military reports to a private actor from the get go because the private actor can just change the directives at their leisure.
It also means that common people who are hurt by the military are less likely to have any recourse.
It looks bad when citizens rally against the government, but private corporations don't care and often have very powerful legal teams.
Out second argument is about jeopardizing the security of soldiers.
Whenever we see an outsource of like government action to some private actor, there are some trends we see occur almost immediately like the rise in sexual assault, the increase in the physical abuse of individuals.
Like every time we've had private contracting for police or the military in other kind of frames or other kind of situations in the US, we've seen really bad things to those soldiers rise.
Like we've seen where their working conditions and their benefits get worse.
This happens statistically because private corporations are nontransparent and unaccountable.
You get increases in racism and homophobia.
All bad things.
The US benefits for soldiers are great in the status quo.
You have healthcare and education.
Sam's competition doesn't work because once you sell off the contract that corporations the corporations essentially get a monopoly from that point on and can behave as they please.
But our third argument is about increasing bad military action.
Like sam's just wrong.
Like the private corporations aren't more likely to hire locals because they care more about the profit than they care about the impact.
The US government is much more likely to want good global interaction and stability so there's going to be less hate crimes, less unnecessary violence against civilians.
Like we want these things to be tied more directly to the government because then you're less likely to get inhumane action because that government actually gets tied to politics and the people.
Proud to oppose.