We shouldn't increase trade barriers.
Look, I'm sure that government talked a lot about all of the good reasons that individual governments might have for imposing trade barriers, whether it's because they're trying to strengthen their own economy or because they're trying to punish other companies for other countries for bad behavior, but we think at the end of the day, this is a debate about the aggregate benefit.
So even if there are individual good reasons for why an action ought be taken, if we show you, on net, that the impacts of those actions have bad consequences, we don't care how good the initial reason is.
For example, I might have a really good reason to like hurt someone, but hurting that person has such an impact on them that the justification for my reason doesn't matter, given the consequences of my action on to them.
And I think that that's something that actually matters a lot in this round, because I think that we can principally justify a lot of things and then realize, on closer examination, that they are pragmatically poor ideas.
Two main arguments, first on supporting the free market.
I want to talk about competition on the international level, because we think that when you have less trade barriers, it automatically means that you're going to sell more.
And, sure, government is right.
Sometimes it means that certain sectors of your economy are going to be harmed.
If it is true that other countries can produce food at a cheaper price than the US can, then we're going to have situations in which our trade isn't isn't going as well or our like own food markets aren't doing as well because of the fact that we're buying from international companies.
But we just don't think that this is actually a bad thing, right?
Like government would have you think that you need to run away from these kinds of situations, that you can't you have to protect your own domestic markets, but we think, at the end of the day, that this is just the market showing us where our effort is most efficient.
If another country outcompetes you, you can start buying that good from them instead, and you can move your labor to something that you are more competitive in.
For example, we see often that manufacturing switches to research and development in a lot of first world countries because it's just not true that it's something that we can produce well anymore.
In this way, protecting our domestic markets only serves to stymie us economically, because we can never actually grow and develop into what our potential can do.
And we undereducate our population and prevent them from going into those fields as a result, because we're signalling improperly that there is a demand for them to be in those fields.
So this kind of domino effect is actually why it is very detrimental to have trade barriers at all.
Our second argument is about creating cooperation.
Recognize that no country wants to go to war with their trade partners because once a trade relationship is established, doing something that jeopardizes it can harm your citizenry.
Government probably talked about how trade barriers can be used to encourage positive behaviors in countries that are doing bad things, but the problem here is twofold.
First, we just don't think that it is objective what a harmful action is.
We saw trade barriers between the US and cuba and the US and and vietnam, and this wasn't on the basis of something that was physically wrong or something that was objectively incorrect, like a human rights violation, rather it was specifically that they were pursuing a political regime the US didn't agree with.
And even if there are certain objective situations, like we all agree that what north korea's doing is bad, we think at the point that these trade barriers are already in place and we're talking about increasing them, we are primarily talking about that kind of shadowy middle ground in which we don't really see whether or not this is actually a bad behavior.
But more than that, I think the problem on their side of the house is that they don't actually create changes within the countries they want to impact.
Dictators will keep living big because they can just take money from other sectors anyway.
You're only going to hurt the individual people who now get paid less, don't have access to as much food, and all of these other things.
Proud to oppose.