The motion for today's debate is that we should fight for tibetan independence, we being the united states government.
Examples of how we could fight for them would be support given through money to tibetan like rebel groups or the tibetan government, political activism on their behalf, and political like outcries against china, and perhaps even like support through weapons to any kind of uprising that might occur.
Two main areas of clash, the first on fighting for those who are underrepresented and why it is like partially the obligation of the united states to do so.
We tell you that the united states is built on the basis of democracy, and it is hypocritical when we don't support those who are underrepresented by their governments for geopolitical or economic reasons.
Insofar as we recognize this as a core tenant of our own government, we ought also recognize it abroad and not just give people free passes because we rely on them through economics.
But more than this, we think it is necessary for large powers, such as the united states government, to call overreach, especially when people are asking for that support, because otherwise this is seen as passive consent.
We tell you that not doing anything, in instances where you could, makes you complicit in any abuses that occur.
Insofar as we have the ability to call out china and tell them to get better, not doing so makes us just as culpable for any human rights abuses that they might perpetrate against the tibetans as china itself, but more than this, allows them to see that it is acceptable.
Recognizing that there is no consequence for their actions emboldens chinese overreach and allows them to perform worse acts in the future.
Our second area of clash, however, is that china gave up their right to sovereignty over tibet when they stopped treating them like real citizens and have never actually treated them like real citizens.
Even if you disagree with the principle that the united states specifically should chime in regardless, we think the fact that china has given up their right to sovereignty means that all countries should fight on behalf of tibet.
So what do we mean by this?
We think the right to self-determination is incredibly important insofar as individual groups of people know better what is best for them than those who are unrelated.
This is why it is would be a problem, perhaps, if the united states took over let's say, cuba, because in the end the united states is just too far away, too culturally distinct, and not invested in the safety of the cuban individuals, cuban people, in the same way that those people are.
We recognize that I'm probably better at deciding what is best for myself because I'm the one who has to live with those decisions, and I'm the one who can prioritize what I want to prioritize, rather than some unrelated individual.
We tell you that the second problem to this is that when you are unrelated, you are much more likely to see those people as a means to an end rather than an end in and of itself.
What we mean by this is that because the chinese government doesn't care about the tibetans equally to that of their own citizens, they're more likely to treat them facilitatively like lower than their own and try to extort them from it.
So, human rights abuses, using their labor unfairly, not enforcing equality policies because it benefits the chinese government, all of this is more likely because the chinese government doesn't care about tibet as much as a tibetan government would care about tibet.
More than this, we think that when china didn't that china stopped fulfilling the social contract when it started perpetrating human rights abuses against tibetans.
What we mean by this is that even though tibetans are still expected to pay taxes, they don't receive the same kind of protections that other chinese citizens do from the government.
Things like religious oppression, not allowing things like buddhism to be allowed in the in within tibet and prevents people from self-actualizing based on their religious preference, over-policing, the act of imprisonment of any tibetan protesters, the torture that is used within these prisons are all violations of sovereignty.
Insofar as you insofar as your sovereignty comes from the people that you govern, when you start abusing those people, you lose the right to them.
We think all of this means that, collectively, the united states and other large powers ought fight on behalf of the right to self-determination of the tibetans.
For these reasons, proud to propose.