The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce recall elections.
A little bit of modeling: what we mean by this is that in the united states we would have a petition.
Once it reaches the appropriate barrier of signatures and congress agrees that there ought be a recall election, then you would go and recast a vote for any elected position.
We aren't limiting this to president or governors or anything like this so anyone, congress people, like local government, etcetera.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why it prevents political abuses.
Sometimes, awful people make it into office because a lot they manage to convince a lot of people in a short amount of time that they happen to not be awful.
A really good example of this is donald trump.
Even the majority of voters of his voters would currently agree that he is an awful choice for president and ought no longer occupy that position.
However, because he managed to be approachable and looked like a good businessman or any number of other justifications that people used for him when they voted for him, he managed to get himself elected, and now there's nothing we can do except impeach him, which is a much more difficult process than getting enough signatures on a petition.
We think that we should be able to have that should we have recall elections, we could prevent him from doing anything worse from now on.
We could have booted him out of office back when he threatened north korea, and therefore we would have had some kind of check on this process, that if someone wears a false face through the entirety of the electoral process, just they can't just take it off once they are elected and expect everything to be okay.
We also think it provides a clearer picture of what being in office look like.
We think that especially in local governments, you have a lot of people who come in because they want to have some kind of perverse incentive, right?
They like want they were they are being paid off by oil corporations, or they want to be more easily like networked with people who might be able to invest in their own company, things like this.
And we think that when you show that there is accountability, they're less likely to do so.
This brings us to our second area of clash, which is basically that it forces politicians to listen to the people, because our current system means that, in the end, all that matters is that moment before elections when they have to convince the populace to vote them into office in the first place.
Our system makes approval ratings matter, because if politicians don't listen to constituents, on our side of the house, then they are going to have a recall election.
And it forces them to not just have to spume like make sure that they make keep the people who are paying them happy, they actually have to keep the general populace that elected them in the first place happy, because these are the people who can sign the petition that gets them recalled.
We think it's especially important for those who don't have reelections to worry about, because we think with a lot of congress people, they have to keep listening to their constituency consistently because they have infinite election cycles to win before them.
But when we're talking about things like president or other elections where there's like a limited number of terms or you don't have to you don't have to you can't run again after your first term, we think that recall the threat of recall elections forces them to still listen to their constituency after they are past the point of no return, even when they aren't afraid of not getting reelected.
We think that currently there doesn't exist a check during that time, and we need to have one.
Our third area of clash is that it encourages political involvement.
It's easy to feel helpless in today's political system when someone you didn't vote for is in office doing awful things that you cannot control.
And in order to cope with those feelings, people tend to disconnect from politics and media to avoid that helplessness.
But if there's hope for a recall, we think that people are much more likely to stay active.
They're much more likely to want to keep up on political events, to be that person checking the president.
They're much more likely to gather signatures or go and fact check things when they don't feel as helpless and they think that there's some point of recourse for them.
For these reasons, proud to propose.