The problem with government is that they seem to place all of their like round winning material on the idea that because this is discrimination based on age, it ought be illegal.
The problem with this is that age based discrimination is very legal.
At the point that I have to reach a certain age in order to be able to vote, a certain age in be able to drink, it is clear that the government has created a standard in which even though every individual is different, so maybe I might be more prepared to vote than most eighteen year olds even if I'm fifteen, we don't make these exceptions.
Because it is okay to generalize age and generalize characteristics across age groups, on the basis that it creates a more efficient system.
So we think that at the point that we've shown you that age based discrimination is legal and this is a justified, and we later we will show you why it is justified especially in this situation, we think they've already lost the majority of their offense.
More than this, we'd like to add that some loopholes might be included.
So say that a corporation finds like someone very very important, they might be able to appeal the retirement and hold off for a few years.
Like, we think that if someone is truly integral to a corporation you'd still be able to keep your job.
More than this, we think this makes the most sense in places that have strong social security or similar systems in place, because we think it would be unfair to force someone to retirement if they wouldn't be able to afford to live.
So we think that this like, for the clearest debate, it should take place in countries with strong funding for those who are retired.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on why aging necessarily decreases productivity and the most efficient systems have mandatory retirement.
It's important to acknowledge that technology is growing at a pace that those who are older cannot keep up with.
Things like very simple changes within computers occur incredibly quickly and makes entire systems unrecognizable to those who are older, and you end up with people who are using outdated technology because they cannot learn the new stuff, even though the new stuff allow things to be much more efficient and save time and money.
It's also a fact that as you get older you get slower and your ability to learn things becomes heavily impeded.
So what this means is someone who is more recently graduated will always not only be more knowledgeable about the technology in that field at that moment, but also will be faster at learning new processes than someone who is older than them.
So drew might say that sometimes there's no difference between a forty five in a sixty five year old, but all we have to show you is that the majority of the time there is a significant difference to the point where we would prefer that that forty five year old was hired.
More than this though, we think that it is often times good for the people who retired, who are like forced into mandatory retirement.
Because it creates a standard where it isn't embarrassing to leave your job.
Like currently in society we have a lot of stigmas around retiring because it's seen as losing your productivity, kind of entering your end of life phases.
Being able to standardize this across age means it stops being a competition for who stays out of retirement the longest and it stops being stigmatized.
So I think that's good.
Our second area of clash has to do with the economy.
We think that it is more important to keep younger the younger generations productive because they have more productivity to give and haven't made any kind of savings money that would allow them to be cushioned, and aren't old enough to be supported by programs such as social security or other like age based programs in place.
So the problem currently is that you have so much unemployment straight out of college that you have people who end up relying on things like welfare and social systems, that the system isn't created for.
So you get too many of them and and too many of them have already paid for college and deserve to have a real job.
So essentially, we think that it's better for the economy when you're allowing these people to find the jobs by vacating them literally through mandatory retirement.
So currently a massive problem with teaching is that all of your teachers are very old and there aren't very many jobs available for those who are younger.
We think that not only are they going to be more effective teachers, but that it's actively important because these older teachers have already like made enough money for their savings that are going to be supported by things like social security.
For these reasons proud to oppose.