We should keep the gaza blockade.
Three main areas of clash, first on the most effective ways in which we starve hamas and prevent them from like existentially being functional.
First on a literal level.
Recognize that innocents and citizens are going to be harmed on both sides because even when you disband the blockade, hamas still takes all of the resources that come across.
Like there is no way in which we guarantee that resources are going to trickle down to citizens in a meaningful way and so we're unclear on what changes on either side.
Recognize also that hamas' literal strategy has been to purposefully starve gaza to make them look like a victim to international communities.
They want to make them a human health and and like rights like mess because they can then blame it on israel and get more like support from the international community.
But this happens regardless of what israel does, this means they might as well find a way to hurt hamas as well insofar as citizens are hurt at swell hurt either way.
We think even if citizens get marginal utility from some food that comes across the border we think that it's not meaningful enough to raise the standard of living high enough to justify not fighting against hamas.
But the second way in which you like fight hamas here is by like preventing weapons from getting across.
Recognize that without the blockade it necessarily becomes easier to smuggle weapons across, first because it is impossible to enforce something that is only a partial blockade as same suggests, but also because it becomes infinitely easier to disguise them as other goods.
The only foolproof way to keep someone from coming across the border with a crate they say is full of like I don't know water jugss or something but is actually full of guns inside those oil jugs me like is by having a complete and utter blockade.
But our second area of clash is about appeasing israeli citizens.
Recognize that broad support for this cup policy exists from israeli citizenry like like netanyahu is vastly a like a like a politician who likes to monger political support and usually does whatever satisfies the vast majority because he wants to remain in power.
What this means is that the gaza blockade is something that the majority of israelis have decided they prefer.
We that it's better to have one broad shitty government action than many unregulated individual actions.
Recognize that the ultra-orthodox and zionists have already been expanding various settlements into the golan heights and into other parts of like palestinian territory.
This has been really bad because it has started very bad skirmishes with palestinians in areas where probably shouldn't have existed because they're taking illegal action both in the eyes of the israeli government and the palestinian government.
The problem is that israel than doesn't feel like they can take action against them because they see themselves as disloyal.
This kind of behavior gets infinitely worse without action because people would take it into their own hands.
Like we think that angry israeli militias rushing into gaza when the blockade comes down is an incredibly likely scenario.
It's also just more likely to cause actual wars, have more people harmed, and have more people go against israel when they say that israel literally cannot control their citizens and is allowing this kind of violence to occur and israel is stuck in this double bind in which they can't say no we do not support these actions because then netanyahu loses the support of these individuals that he relies on to keep himself in power but also can't condone the behavior.
So we think that this keeps the situation in a like yes undesirable but existing equilibrium.
But there going to want to talk about protecting the border cities because we think that for years and years cities like sderot suffered suffered massive amounts of bombing and actually were like severely severely damaged in many ways and are still recovering from a lot of bombing coming over across the gaza strip driven by hamas.
Like the problem before is that bombs raining down on border towns and there wasn't anything to be done.
We think limiting weapons necessarily limits the bombs that come across the border so maybe eventually you don't have to have a bomb shelter in the basement of any every building or literally have your school be one giant bomb shelter.
We this is really important.
Proud to oppose.