We should subsidize adoption.
What we mean by this is that united states government should pour money into lowering the cost that it takes to adopt a child.
Three main areas of clash: first, on why it's shifting the current culture.
Because recognize that there are a lot of children that need families and that that population growth is becoming a very real issue in terms of the way that it impacts our planet and our standard of living.
What this means is that we don't think that people should be having as many kids as they are having in the status quo.
We're not even sure if they should be having any kids if they're people who come from relatively privileged backgrounds and have the means to support a child from another household.
We think that you need to encourage people to adopt instead, which is exactly what our proposal is.
Recognize that government signaling is a big deal, even when if there isn't a direct legislation act or a direct ban.
First and foremost, this is because the government is generally a role model.
It is made up of people who have lots of experience, who tell you that they are there to run the country, and who tell you to trust them to do so.
This necessarily holds a lot of weight when it comes to the general population that is being told to commit to these things, that elected these officials into office, that are told to follow the laws that they set.
But also, recognize that it molds public behavior more directly when it comes through policy.
Like if the government suddenly says, " hey, look, we're going to use public action to actually fund these things, " rather than just say that they are good, we think that impacts the way that the general public acts.
We saw this when it came to desegregation in the united states.
Sure, there were still a lot of racist people, but they were infinitely less likely to show that they were racist publicly.
We also saw this with hate speech laws in european countries where the existence of the law promoted a general cultural shift to being more accepted so that it became actively problematic if someone said something hateful, even if it's not because they were arrested but rather because general society had developed a distaste for that rhetoric.
Look.
This is something that might be slow, but it's going to happen.
You have to change the idea that adoption is only for the rich and only something that is done if you are someone who can't have kids on your own.
Show that it is something that is no longer having a cost barrier to anyone below the upper middle class and show that it is something that we encourage and see as good, even if you are capable of having your own kids biologically.
We think starting those actions is good.
Our second area of clash is about why it's good for the orphanage system.
Recognize, first and foremost, that currently orphanages in the public system are incredibly overburdened, and this isn't necessarily due to a lack of accommodations or a lot of funding.
It's more due to the fact that there's a set number of orphanages but a number of children that grows as the population grows and as the number of teen pregnancies rise.
So, we think this isn't actually something that can be solved on their side of the house, but what you can do is unburden the physical infrastructure.
Take children out of that building that is going to stay the same on both sides of the house, get more kids into home so that they can live better lives than they are in the status quo, which we think is an independent voter issue regardless.
Look.
We think that kids in the status quo who stay in orphanages get very bad treatment.
Like, we see this in terms of the fact that they're infinitely more likely to become to have like the school-to-prison pipeline, they're more likely to be abused, they're more likely to have bad experiences with attachment, and we think that all of that is solvable when you encourage adoption.
Our third area of clash is about justice.
Look.
We think that insofar as everybody has the biological ability to have children unless there's something that has gone physically wrong, that having children is a human right.
It is problematic, by symmetry, that because I was born with like a non-functional uterus, I should be deprived of something that other people around me, regardless of their other characteristics, are able to enjoy, just because of that physical abnormality.
The problem in the status quo is that even if I am someone who desperately wants children but I don't have the money to adopt, I still can't.
We think the government has an obligation to level that playing field.
Subsidize adoption, let people have kids.
Proud to propose.