We shouldn't introduce recall elections.
Two main arguments, first on implementation impacts: first, to address danny's argument on democracy and how impeachment doesn't work, and therefore we need these recall actions as another system that allows the people to take control.
Even if it is true that there are bad incentive structures against impeachment, we think that people aren't actually better arbiters, especially since there's tons of apathy, misinformation, and pettiness among the general voting population such that any kind of recall elections would also be influenced by even worse kind of incentives, especially given that you will add to this things like attack advertisements and other kinds of political incentives on the part of politicians that want to create recall actions.
And these are influences that you literally cannot have an impeachment.
Moreover, I just think it's not true that the people don't have a way of expressing their displeasure with politicians.
Maybe it is the case that they can't recall them in the middle of a term, but you just don't reelect them later, which is what danny seems to ignore the entirety of this debate.
And I think that at the point that this is true, we don't need to have the ability for people to express their opinion all the time, only at the time when it is most important, and that already exists.
It's important to note that very few elections win by such a large majority that there aren't some amount, even a very large amount of people, that are against them.
Being supported by by eighty percent of the population even isn't particularly possible, right?
Like a lot of our elections are won on like a forty five, fifty five kind of split.
And at the point that that's true, it's very easy for those numbers to fluctuate throughout the course of the term such that at any given moment, you could have a majority who don't want that politician in place, even if later in the term, they will again.
And I think at the point that these fluctuations happen so often, you can't have recall elections based on these kinds of numbers, because they're just going to happen at arbitrary times, for no particularly good reason, without allowing for the time to pass that would be necessary for the fluctuations to stabilize.
We think at the end of the day, getting the percentage vote for a recall vote would be ridiculously easy, even if the ultimate recall isn't successful.
And that's really problematic because even when it doesn't go through, the call for a recall is a powerful signal that creates discomfort and confusion in the population.
It seeds distrust in a system that doesn't necessarily deserve it and actively prevents the political system from being able to get things done by making everyone less accepting of changes and more critical of the administration.
It can also literally be used to stall and disrupt politics.
If every time a democratic governor does something, the republicans call for a recall, that creates a stop-go situation which is both exhausting to the general populace, but also threatens productivity.
I think at the end of the day, the general population just isn't particularly vigilant.
And that's really a problem a problem for them, because it's really easy for fearmongering or bullying to cloud people's understanding, which will compromise the democratic nature of those recall actions.
Our second argument is about the bad impact on politicians.
Danny spends a while talking about accountability, but we don't think that this will actually have an effect on accountability, because politicians are only not accountable when they physically cannot, and when they are being completely unaccountable and just doing the opposite of what they promised, that's when those individuals don't get reelected.
So we're always going to weigh the harmful effect this has on politicians more than the ability for people to actualize their anger, because people do you have the ability to actualize their anger later.
We think the problem, more so, is that politicians won't take actions for fear of these recalls.
Because they understand that people from outside of their constituency can initiate recalls, they're going to be less likely to follow through on their promises to their own constituency for fear of making people outside of it angry.
If a politician wants to be beloved, all they would have to do is something like cut taxes by five percent and then sit back and maintain the status quo, which we thinks become which we think becomes a lot more likely when you introduce recall elections.
Proud to oppose.