Don't encourage self-employment.
We think a lot of people will come up with the idea of self-employment on their own if that is something that is actually right for them.
This means that these are people who already have an idea and recognize that they are the best person to fulfill it independently of another organization or corporation.
But we think that if you're not one of those people, it's bad to encourage people to do this before they have those ideas and have reached that kind of state.
Because it makes directionless self-employment more likely ie you're going to have people who will decide that they're going to be self-employed but won't have a good idea of how which will ultimately lead them to failure.
Two main arguments about why we shouldn't encourage self-employment, first on its risk.
The majority of individuals will not succeed being self-employed and it is really important to recognize this as fact.
Because when you encourage something as a particular path that you think is a good idea you necessarily, as the government doing this or as like points of authority doing this, encourage individuals to do this more and will have higher rates of people going into that.
And we think that's all good when we're talking about something like college where you can like choose your own path and ultimately decide what career you're aiming for, but when we're talking about self-employment we're talking about a very particular set of constraints that not everybody is built to fill.
It requires a lot of self control, budgeting, scheduling.
It also requires strong innovative skills, creative ideas, it requires really strong management skills to make sure that you're going to be able to build your own company or your own self-employment idea up from the ground.
And we think that all of this is something that is not common to the average individual.
Like we think that it truly take someone who is extraordinary and intelligent and very good at these particular skills that not everybody has in order to survive being self-employed.
So encouraging it is a really bad idea because you're essentially setting people up to fail.
Like sure you might have your labor devalued when you work for someone else but the problem is that there's no guarantee you're going to get what you're worth when you're self-employed because you're going to depend on the consumer base rather than on your boss.
When you work for someone else you get the same paycheck regardless of how business is going, at least for the majority of jobs.
When you're self-employed if business is going poorly you're dumb out of luck.
We have to recognize that danny is massively sugar coating how self-employment plays out and what the risks actually look like.
He pretends that you'll automatically be an all independent, successful, and self-empowered individual and we think this just isn't the case.
For a lot of people self-employment is an uphill battle in which you have to interact with investors, in which you have to figure out new tax codes, and in which you can't guarantee a lot of the benefit that many of america's working class have gotten used to.
Our second argument is about how it's low reward.
First self-employment usually doesn't pay well, especially at the beginning, which means that your standard of living is going to decrease significantly at the beginning of being self-employed and sometimes into the long term of being self-employed in a way that wouldn't occur when you're getting paid a salary by someone else.
You also don't get any of the benefits that you get from holding a job.
You don't get overtime compensation, there isn't any insurance, there's no one to match your pension plan, which places a massive burden on you as the person who is self-employed since now you have to remember to provide all of those things and budget them for yourself.
A lot of people just aren't prepared or in a place where they are likely to do these kinds of management things effectively.
This is because it requires a lot of self-restraint and really strong budgeting skills to keep track of all the things that other jobs usually do automatically.
Moreover if you're going to have a bad like work month or week or couple of weeks or year that's your pension and your salary that is going to be suffering and if your business happens to go down under, you're the one who starts to be personally responsible for that debt.
For these reasons, don't encourage self-employment.