We should end mining.
We mean by this is that we would stop all of the current coal mines that exist in the status quo and just no longer engage in this practice going into the future.
Three main areas of clash, first on why this is inherently abusive.
Recognize that mining is a uniquely dangerous job.
First physically individuals are infinitely more likely to get hit by falling down debris, there are going to be gas leaks that can choke people.
This is why we had things like literal birds that would sit in cages who would sing when they started to suffocate but a lot of the time people just weren't able to make it out in time regardless.
So we think that that's something that is very important but also like after you exit like the rates of lung cancer and other forms of cancer like the rates of pneumonia all of this becomes a lot higher after you've worked in the mining industry.
This is much more dangerous than the majority of the jobs that we have access to because even if things like athletics are likely to destroy your bones they're not likely to make it so that you can physically not live a higher quality like a basic standard of living into the future like you're still going to usually be able to walk you're just not going to be able to work in athletics here this prevents you from being able to do things like breathe or like drink water like very basic acts that you need to do for the rest of your life.
It's also unstable in a different regard in that when you finish that mine in that region there's usually nothing left over, there isn't actually any job stability associated with mining because it is so regional and so dependent on that mine continuing to have coal or whatever your mining in it.
People might say okay but look you can consent to this because you need a job but we also think there isn't meaningful consent because meaningful consent implies that you are choosing from alternatives because only then can you evaluate one to be better than the other and choose that otherwise it would be the equivalent of someone holding a gun to my head and saying you have to mine because that's essentially what's happening if I don't take this job I won't be able to feed my family so on so forth.
It becomes the only option for those that have no alternatives, those who might be uneducated can't find a job who need the money if there aren't any alternatives and there isn't any consent in the same way that we wouldn't call someone holding a gun to my head and making me do something a consensual decision.
Second though we want to talk about why it's bad for the environment.
Very basic things like the fact that it often leaks into the ground and into water systems that poison entire towns we think that flint, michigan is both an issue of the fact that those pipes weren't particularly well-set but also an issue that there are a lot of mines nearby that infected that water like we see fracking happening in rural pennsylvania and like along the canadian border and we see that their water supply gets infected because you are literally underground messing with things which is what mining does.
This impact millions of people who live locally and prevents them from being able to access basic drinking water.
It also has large machinery that often emits greenhouse gases in a way that is a lot worse and like particularly bad for those areas because they create unhealthy air for people to breathe so we see that asthma that the existence of asthma in children is a lot higher when they grew up in mining towns than elsewhere but also like recognize there's other issues like we've literally seen entire villages and entire towns being sucked up into a mining hole because they left this massive gap in the ground in those areas fell into them like when fire start in them that pollutes for years and years and years because no one can get down there to pull put it out like these things are just too risky to be engaged with.
Our third area of clash is about entrenching the use of fossil fuels.
Look unless we start taking action to prevent the methods that people use to obtain fossil fuels we're never going to stop the practice and we all know how bad those are for the environment and the individual.
Stop mining, stop fossil fuels.
Proud to propose.