The motion for today's debate is that we should and water fluoridation.
I think an important overview here is to recognize that people are going to be able to get fluoride regardless of whether or not it is within our water.
Because the majority of like name brand toothpastes, and those that are most recommended by dentists, are those that have fluoride in them.
This means that we don't have to defend a world in which fluoride is never taken up by an individual and never does anything beneficial.
We just have to defend a world in which water specifically is not used as the mechanism by which individuals end up using fluoride.
Two main areas of clash: first on being risk averse.
Recognize that for something that is so widely spread water fluoridation has been surprisingly under researched.
Fluoride as a like molecule is potentially dangerous given that it is a halogen which is highly reactive and very like known for heavy metal damages.
As such and also known to like act as a free radical.
We have no idea what the long term breakdown of fluoride in the body might look like or how it might interact with other compounds in the human body, given that the human body is actually surprisingly reactive and has a lot of like individual chemicals in it that could be dangerous.
We think that it's much safer to allow fluoride to be used through toothpaste, which doesn't get fully ingested, as opposed to water where it has to like go through your whole digestive tract and actually be internalized by the body.
The problem with water is that no one actually gets to consent in or out of fluoride being there.
The government just decides that it's a good thing and that imposes its will upon individuals.
The problem here is that we think that people need to be able to have an opt in and opt out mechanism into things that go into their bodies.
This is why we might be pro things like genetically modified food labeling.
But like even to a lesser extent, I think this is why we often require things like organic food labeling.
Or like specific pesticides to be labeled.
Because we recognize that the body is something that is specifically sacred to individuals, specifically something that individuals have full control over, that the government ought not impede upon.
And so it should be in individual's right to choose whether or not they're going to hove fluoride as part of their diet.
I think the problem in the status quo is that you can always like choose non fluoridated toothpaste regardless of how much of a bad idea it is, but it is completely impossible to opt out the water that you drink insofar as it is necessary to ensure your survival.
And so we think that because people never get to like choose not to do it, unless they're going to buy all of their own bottled water which is incredibly expensive, we think that you have to end water fluoridation.
But our second area of clash is about cost.
Because the government spends a lot of money on something that people are going to buy on their own.
This makes this a frivolous expenditure that ought not be incurred.
We think that literally anything could be better spent on than something like fluoridation.
I think there's necessarily a like hierarchy of government obligation and of individual rights that need to be upheld upheld.
And I just don't understand in what world it is so important for individuals to have fluoridated toothpaste that it would be necessary and that the government ought be fulfilling them.
I think rather, is infinitely more important that individuals get things like food and get things like shelter and so we think that money would like should instead go in that direction.
But I think the more important thing here is that in so far as individuals are going to be able to access fluoride either way, we don't think the government has an obligation to be providing it and certainly that it shouldn't be violating a lot of individuals' rights by never giving them a chance to opt out of that system.
For these reasons proud to propose.