Don't limit the freedom of speech.
First I think that we need to work some framing in here.
Because I think there's a difference between freedom of speech being unfettered with regards to people being able to express their political views, people being able to express their personal views, but we think there's a difference between someone being able to express their personal views at no cost to anyone else versus someone being able to express their personal views in a way that directly prevents another individual from exercising their freedom of speech.
We think that in situations of competing rights claims then we ought be prioritizing the individual who is more vulnerable or more attacked in that situation.
IE we think things like hate speech don't necessarily need to be protected because they contribute to a society that that silences minorities and prevents individuals from being able to speak out their opinion in public spaces.
So we think that at the end of the day we don't want to limit freedom of speech when it is something that is that it doesn't oppress individuals, oftentimes groups that have already been oppressed in the past, gonna doesn't trade off with other people's freedom of speech.
But I don't think that we have to defend a world in which we just willy nilly allow awful like hate speech or inciting violence speech to be spoken.
Three main areas of clash: first on why this is a fundamental right.
Recognize that individuals are defined by the way that the interact with the world, which is often done through actions or words that are defined often as speech.
Like I as a person will exist in this world for a limited amount of time.
But the imprint that I will leave behind or the words that I have spoken to other people and the interactions that I have had, should someone be there the entire time holding a gun to my head or taping my mouth shut, or any other physical analogy to the way that we silence individuals when we limit their freedom of speech in legal ways, then we wouldn't say that that person was being able to actually identify as themselves.
We wouldn't say that they were contributing to the world as the person that they are.
Rather we would say that they are being forced into this, coerced into this, and prevented from self actualization.
We think that in so far as this is the main way in which we interact with the world it must be unfettered.
Because it is from this right that all other rights and abilities, and the ability to exercise your rights or to say when your rights are being violated, stem from initially being able to speak.
So it must always be as free as possible.
But there's a second layer of this.
We think that individual's identity is really important and that oftentimes that identity is actualized by being able to talk to other people about it, propose your political views, so on so forth.
So we think that insofar as we want world in which individuals are feeling fulfilled and are feeling like themselves, we think that we have to recognize this as a right.
Our second area of clash is about why it's the only way to achieve democracy.
We think that it's really difficult to maintain a system of government that claims to represent everybody if the majority of individuals are prevented from being able to put out their actual views on the world.
We think that when that when people of color don't feel comfortable in political spaces, talking about how they've been hurt and how they think it can be solved, this is when their problems never get solved and they can't contribute to the political system in the first place, and we don't think that that is a democracy.
Rather we think that is an autocracy that has a slightly larger group ruling than usual.
Our third area of clash however is about the market of ideas.
Because we think that it is the case that a lot of people are pro the limitation of freedom of speech based on the idea that sometimes we just hear things that we don't want to hear.
That sometimes there are really awful thing said.
But we think the problem on their side of the house is that those things are still going to exist.
They just get less spoken about.
They become ingrained in individuals' mind in individual actions and feelings.
And we think what happens on their side of the house is that you never get to talk them out of that existence.
We think that if you get up in just like a common space now and yell nazi propaganda, everybody the majority of individuals in that space won't agree with you.
But that only happens because we got to talk about it in the first place.
This is the only way that you are able to engage in engage in discourse that changes people's minds and things like that.
Proud to oppose.