Don't have year-round schooling.
Danny creates an elaborate redistribution of the days off during vacation.
Short breaks where he says that people are going to have the same amount of time off just distributed over the year differently but the problem here is that we just don't think that short breaks are the same personally or functionally.
You can't do the same amount of stuff, people are less likely to hire you.
Like a lot of the benefits we think are not about whether or not you can go on vacation, which is basically the only example that danny focuses on, rather it's about if you are someone who needs to get a job, if you're someone who wants to have an internship, these kinds of things can't happen over the course of one month rather they need a span of an entire summer to actually do them.
Two three main arguments: first, on being better for children.
Danny is wrong about the way that students respond to breaks and which system for breaks is better.
We think that summer break is a is a really good time to decompress in a way that other breaks simply aren't.
School is something that is exhausting emotionally, physically, mentally.
It forces children to a strict into to stick to a very strict and stringent schedule, stay seated for hours of the day and interact in controlled social interactions with populations of individuals they likely don't want to be interacting with.
These are conditions that adults are capable of dealing with because adults are more developed and have built up more stamina but for children this is a pretty high ask especially since physically children have more energy and require more time outside and being physically active than adults do.
It's also bad for their emotional and mental development to be overloaded with work.
Summer break is a good way of creating more of a balance when it comes to works.
It still prepares kids for the real world and provides them with the positive parts of education learning and other skills but still gives a long enough uninterrupted period of freedom that they don't get too overwhelmed.
Danny says " look you're going to have a lot of short breaks that let you decompress " but this just doesn't isn't the way it works.
Like if anything we've seen studies where individuals are given four day instead of two day weekends and we see that the productivity during the rest of the week rises rapidly because we know that short breaks are simply less effective than longer ones and allow an individual to feel like the decompressed.
But moreover, recognize that in the status quo children have relatively regular breaks as is, right?
You get time off for thanksgiving, spring break, like big holidays.
It's not as if it like winter break tends to be pretty long like it's not as if you're just off for summer break and then in the school the rest.
We get a positive that danny attempts to co-opt but can't because the status quo already includes those breaks.
Summer prevents fatigue while year-round schooling would exist would exhaust kids to the point that they would feel like education is unenjoyable.
This is how we see burnout happen in a lot of countries that have these kinds of systems.
People go through year-round school before college are burned out by the time they go to higher learning and can't perform as well as they would.
Our second argument is that it's important for extracurriculars.
It gives the opportunity to do something besides school.
The first independent point applies best to elementary and middle schools kids but we think that summer is really important for high schoolers as well.
During the school year you rarely have time for anything besides classes and school focused extracurriculars.
Some kids squeeze in a job but that's pretty difficult.
You don't have the time to throw yourself into intense products or full time job positions.
Summer gives an uninterrupted span of time in which high schoolers can do things like extra classes at a nearby university or pick up an internship and this is good both on a personal level and in terms of building their resumes for college which we think is something that everyone should be thinking about when they're trying to prepare for college.
Our third argument is about how this is better for low income kids.
Summer provides a span of time when people have to work to help provide their family can build a little bit of a nest egg or at least contribute more to make up for the time during the year that they won't be able to work for the same extent.
This lets people strike a more healthy work-life balance.
There are large populations of kids who are lower middle class who don't have enough money to not have to work but if they can put up their hours over the summer they can do less during their class time.
It'll let the people who will need to work anyway make redistribute they're working in a way that is better for them so they can make more money in a shorter period of time.
Proud to oppose.