The motion for today's debate is that we should end the use of economic sanctions.
We think this is a normative debate ie we prefer a world in which governments did not use economic sanctions against each other.
Three main areas of clash, first on why they're ineffective.
Recognize that the goal of economic sanctions is to force a country to cease a bad behavior and it's used most against dictatorial and other non-democratic regimes that are being oppressive because there's really no incentive to like harm yourself economically unless this is like an extreme case.
The problem with these kind of with like the way that we use them is that these kind of regimes are the most likely to have built and maintained their power in part by using antiwestern sentiment and by talking about how they're going to keep themselves like kowtowing to the west etcetera and because of the rhetoric that they often use they can't be seen as capitulating to western demands because it hurts their image and hurts their support so like ie a lot of like big dictators are upheld by a few large families that are really really rich but those large families are also often built on patriotism and keep their money by maintaining an isolationist perspective that says that the west is awful so if the dictator was to say no I mean to capitulate to these economic sanctions they risk losing a whole lot more money and a whole lot of political support from their biggest donors.
The other reason that it doesn't work is often because the regime holders are usually selfish individuals and won't bite the harms of losing money either way so they don't care about their populace.
Like at the end of the day, these dictators aren't the ones taking the pay cut.
They're going to maintain the same amount of comfort and the same amount of money in both worlds and as such they have no incentive to care about the fact that people are going to suffer more when we have economic sanctions against them.
The other issue is that like now once you have sanctions you can't you can't remove them until the person capitulates because that looks bad on you and like as a western country you don't want to be the one who takes down sanctions until they work because you don't want to seem weak.
Unfortunately capitulation vever happens so you don't get any kind of long term solvency and we think this hurts long term democratization as well because recognize the best way to democratize a nation is by building a middle class and building some kind of like free flow of speech but that only happens if you are able to exert your influence somehow which oftentimes comes best through money.
We think the best way in which you built like have any chance of building middle classes or having like activism groups is when you have a like a some kind of trade going on when like maybe you've cajoled them into letting amnesty international in so they can provide some kind of service to your people but like sanctions completely cut off that avenue and so can never be effective even in the short term but especially are like stunting our goals into the long term.
Our second area of clash is about how it hurts the worst off.
Recognize like as I told you dictators aren't the ones taking the big cut just because there's less net money now now even less goes to people through existing welfare programs any kind of government subsidies that existed like now if the dictators worried about acquiring food they just take more of it by force like it's not the case the dictators that are harmed it's only the case that you're starving the people you're trying to save from the regime in the first place.
But our third area of clash is about it hurts how it hurts countries who issue sanctions in the first place.
Recognize that international trade is an economic tool that is really beneficial to individual nations and individual groups because if I'm able to like buy something more cheaply here that's good for me and if I'm able to sell to a given nation that's also good for me so the problem happens that when you issue economic sanctions whatever that nation used to provide you with or vice versa becomes either more expensive for you to acquire because you have to go to someone who knows you have no other options and so knows they can raise the price or your own goods become cheaper because other countries can exploit you in a similar manner.
They can say like look now you have no one to sell it to you so you're going to sell it to us for less and we think that insofar as this like hurts you as well we don't think you ought to be doing it.
Proud to propose.