Don't further exploit natural gas.
Three main areas of clash, first on why natural gas isn't a long term solution.
Look, if we buy tim's analysis that we are nearing closer and closer to a tipping point that will cause us to never be able to stop climate change and doom us to a fiery death, then what this means is that currently we are looking for a long term solution that allows us to stop stop us in our current tracks and backtrack slowly as we develop more technology.
What this means is that something like natural like gas cannot be that alternative insofar as just because it is cleaner than other fossil fuels it is still something that is a very problematic, especially given that the comparative does exist.
We do have other forms of energy that we know is almost a hundred percent cleaner, and even like in something that is also cheap to achieve, and later I'll get into why it could be good for the economy.
So we think that insofar as we have options we don't understand why we have to defer to something that is automatically going to be worse.
The problem with tim's stance is also that reversing the damage while adding more damage is always going to be counterproductive and insofar as we don't know how long it's going to take us to come up with the magical technology that will turn back the clock of global warming, it's always going to be preferable to pause that clock so that we have more time to figure out the answer.
The problem with his idea of natural gas is that this doesn't pause the clock at all, it just makes it tick slightly slower.
But it takes a long time to figure out that technology, as it likely will given poor government funding for this kind of research and many other issues, then we think that that's not going to be enough.
It's also important that we do things like make up for developing countries.
Because even if we buy that natural gas stop pauses or like makes the ticking slow enough that we can develop that technology, the US is only one country.
So we need to recognize that other countries won't necessarily follow suit.
Especially those that are still developing and need to rely on dirtier fossil fuels so they can do things like industrialize and widen and diversify their economies in the short term, to create long term growth.
Insofar, like if that tipping point is coming and quality of life is decreasing linearly with it, we should try and solve those problems first.
Our second area of clash is about deferring the is about the way in which this defers the growth of green technology.
Recognize that there is a limited number of spaces in the market for competing roles for the same job.
This is why we saw that even though fossil fuels were objectively the most expensive and worse option for energy it continued to be used because it had first mover advantage and there wasn't a second space in the market because it accomplished the same basic duty as any other form of energy.
We think that when you do things like support natural gas you block out other options that are preferable, and not just that but you block them out for a considerable amount of time, insofar as you now transfer that first mover advantage to whatever you have chosen to replace it.
So when the government does things like further exploit natural gas instead of further exploiting something that is greener it gives it deference for a long term amount of time above better green technology.
Recognize the green technology gets all of the economic benefits that tim talks about that come from natural gas.
In fact, we think that it is preferable because of the jobs it creates with things in research and development and building these kinds of things, which are infinitely more long term than just having a regional basis for where you can have your like natural gas reserve at that moment.
We also think they're not likely to be as as international given that you can have domestic jobs for green technology, but if the oil somewhere else, or sorry natural gas, you have to go there to follow it.
Third though I just want to briefly explain that green technology is just in is better in a choice of what to exploit, you ought exploit that.
First it is preferable economically, creates jobs, there is research, but it is also just better environmentally and we've already shown you why that's important.
Proud to oppose.