Humanitarian aid should be subsidized.
Basically what we're saying is that western liberal democracies, so areas that tend to be more privileged and have more developed states, should be putting money into the subsidization of humanitarian aid whether it is within their own countries or I think with this debate more importantly discusses is maybe about putting that money abroad and into humanitarian abroad in other less developed countries.
Three main arguments, first on promoting good in the world.
I think first and foremost these kinds of arguments are always going to win this round because even if the other side might come up with some political arguments about why there's going to be backlash or even why they might discuss why there are other citizens who are harmed, as long as we show you that the people who help are being helped to such a magnitude that it is bigger than any kind of support that could be provided in other areas, we win the round.
And I think that this is the type of thing that just automatically close to our side because when you put money into humanitarian aid you're providing people with the basic necessities that otherwise oftentimes would not have survived without them.
So you're doing things like supplying basic medical care, you're sending food, you're sending like medication and professionals to do job trainings and these are really situations in governments where you don't have the infrastructure the way you have in a lot of western liberal democracies to have those be government duties.
What I mean by this is that in the united states we do things like put money into programs that accomplish these things for the citizenry in the status quo, but these other countries don't have that so sending humanitarian aid and subsidizing that process makes it more likely that you save those people's lives which is always just going to be a very big deal because those are exactly the kinds of things that are taken care of in more developed states.
We also think it facilitates economic and societal growth.
Aid can educate and provide start-up materials like that you have things like heifer international that like will give a live animal to a households that they can then proceeded to sell the milk or breed of breed livestock and make a living off of that and what this does is it essentially creates a procyclical effect in which you cut the cycle of poverty and allow them to start growing and developing on their own.
And it also does things like encourage globalization and global cooperation.
When you provide humanitarian aid, it's a sign to other countries in the world that you are willing to do your part to help out each other, that you're willing to be cooperative and that you prioritize humanitarian aid because you're subsidizing it which makes it more likely that in the long term you're going to be able to foster good relations with those countries in other ways like through trade and through research and all of that.
We think this is generally a good thing for western liberal democracies like the united states to participate in and promote.
Our second argument is about making up for it with the past actions.
Recognize that a lot of western liberal democracies have participated in colonialism whether we're talking about british taking action in african states and in india or we're talking about the US in south america, all of these things have essentially been situations in which these more powerful countries have just kind of gone in, messed a lot of stuff up, asked countries to change all of their economic development and growth for markets that oftentimes were never willing to consume enough so destroying their economies, and engaging in wars that devastated those countries' economies land and people.
And this was often done for the economic and political gain of western liberal democracies even as it came at a massive cost to the countries where this was happening but barely impacted those WLD's.
So we think that when we do things like subsidize humanitarian aid all we're doing is compensating for the problematic systems that we've participated in in the past in allowing those systems to recover from the damage that we have done.
Our third argument is about can and so ought.
Subsidizing humanitarian aid would be a tiny amount of money in the context of US government expenditures or any western liberal democracies.
It wouldn't hurt the citizens of that nation at all, but would make a massive difference for the people in those other countries.
So hence by not providing the money that we can and have the ability to provide, the US and other western liberal democracies directly contribute to the suffering of the people in those nations and we should stop doing that.
Proud to propose.