The motion for today's debate is that we should ban private education.
Two main areas of clash: first, on why there isn't actually a right to a better private education for an individual.
Having a private education usually means that your parents are very wealthy and are willing to put you into a more intensive and personalized education because they have the money to do so.
Recognize that given the means, every parent would choose to put their children into a better school.
The only thing that happens in the status quo is that this choice is only accessible to those who have more money than others, because there is a monetary barrier to putting your child into a private school.
We don't think this is fair though, because there's literally nothing that makes someone from a richer family more worthy of a better education than someone who is poorer.
The amount of money that parents earn is, first, arbitrary, and often predetermined by the conditions in which those parents were raised, the educational opportunities that were available to them, and the job opportunities that followed.
But also, even if you don't buy that that is arbitrary, is definitely out of the power of the child who is most affected by that parent's financial status when it comes to their education.
So, it we think that maybe there's an argument in a world where parents are putting themselves into private education based on the money that they earned, but that child didn't earn that money, they just happened to be born into a richer family.
This is definitely arbitrary and definitely should not determine the rest of your life in the way that it often does.
As such, they shouldn't be separated, especially since high school education often sets you up for the future.
Like if I'm going to have a good math background in high school, it means I'm much more likely to be able to go into stem fields in the future, and it's unfair, we think, that people with private educations, who have more money, should uniquely be able to access that better future or that better background.
Like getting good grades, getting the right references, all of this is infinitely more accessible to someone in a private school, and we don't think that this is fair at all, especially at the point that it oftentimes defines the entirely like the entirety of the rest of your life.
Like if because I want to a crappy high school, I didn't make it into college, this or I didn't have like good enough teachers to deal with me, then in the future, I'm not going to be able to function as well as I potentially could.
And in the end, we think that all this debate is about is whether or not children should get an equal chance at success.
We think they should, and we've already won the round on that.
But our second area of clash is why we think that it actually makes the public school system better for more people when you put those who would have been in private schools into the public school system.
Because recognize that richer parents are usually those who can afford to put money into those schools.
They're willing to call the school repeatedly to make sure that their child is being treated correctly or taking the right classes.
A lot of the time, they're parents that have one or more people who is has more time on their hands and can volunteer at that school.
They're going to actually require things like extra curriculars and class resources, and because they have the money to back it up, the school is much more likely to listen to them.
And so we think what actually happens on their side on our side of the house is that when you have these students going into these public schools, the money that their parents have comes with them.
And so you're actually going to have better public schools because they're forced to live up to a standard.
They can't just ignore their students and their parents because they don't have any money to put behind it or because they don't have the time to come in, because now there're richer parents who are willing to make things better for everyone as long as it especially makes things better for their child.
And so in the end, we think that it's actually much better because, at least now, because of these richer kids there, your school's going to be able to afford to have more extracurriculars, and it's going to be better because they don't want their kids to be in bad schools.
For these reasons, proud to propose.