Don't limit the internet of things.
Right off the top I want to point out that danny doesn't model this round.
Which means it's incredibly unclear to me what the limits he wants to impose actually look like.
We think the most common form in which limits are placed on these kinds of things are at limits on the devices that you can program.
They are limits on how much research you can conduct, such as we saw with stem cells, they are limits on production and sale.
These are things that we think are incredibly pernicious insofar as they don't target the bad ways in which these things might be used.
That can never be targeted by legal limits because it is often in the way that people can hack devices or in the way that they can connect them despite the fact these bans exist.
We think that the important part of this round is that given that the world is changing, given that we live in a world that is vastly expect accepting a cyber presence in the majority of our lives, do we think that we ought adjust to that and provide ourselves with the pleasures of the internet the things can give?
Three main areas of clash, first on why innovation is good.
Recognize that limitations of any sort on a particular business model, or like business proposal, often prevent innovation because it makes it less accessible to start ups and companies, and it usually raises the cost of being able to do it because you are risking fines, you are risking more paperwork and bureaucracy to show that you are doing things properly etcetera etcetera.
This is really bad because innovation betters the human experience and society.
Recognize that all of the progressions we see in the world and in the standard of living that we have comes from progressions in innovation.
Whether we're talking about the polio vaccine or were just discussing having a refrigerator in the house rather than an icebox.
We think that all of these things might have seemed dangerous at times.
Whether it's because there are heating coils in the back of refrigerators that that can blow up if they're not touched if they're not like used properly, or if it's because the polio vaccine literally injects a bit of virus and to you.
We still do these things because we recognize that the majority of the time the people doing them are intelligent individuals who can do it correctly, but also because the benefits can far outweigh the like the not benefits.
The second way in which this is really good though is economically.
Recognize that innovation creates new spheres of business and new ways in which money travels throughout the economy.
We think this is net good because it does things that creates jobs, it does things like like generates tax revenue that goes into our social services.
So we're just unclear on why in a country where we often struggle with job security, where we often have high unemployment and poverty rates, we wouldn't allow something like the internet of things to provide us with a solution to some of that.
Our second area of clash is about increasing the efficiency of living.
My fridge keeping my grocery list etcetera, it's it's not very different like from amazon grocery stores.
Maybe we can live without it, but it's really cool to have it around.
Because even though I don't need a grocery store that automatically swipes me out as I leave the building without a cashier, this saves me a surprising amount of time and energy and it's something that is enjoyable for me to experience.
We think that, we we think that generally we see individuals as having a right to access pleasure regardless of whether or not it is necessary to their existence.
So we think that providing consumers with options and telling them: " hey, if you don't want a blender that connects the internet you don't need one.
But if you do want a blender that connects to the internet, here it is. "
Is the best way in which to allow individuals to decide what context they want to exist in and what best solves their lives.
But our third area of clashes just why these things are incredibly harmless.
Because danny pretends that this is somehow going to take over the world.
There's going to be all of these hacks.
Like contracts are gonna happen which prevents me from using google maps.
Like recognize that cyber security gets better with internet prevalence.
It's just still a new developing technology which is why we see so many hacks right now.
Like people just aren't prepared.
But we think that over time these things change and we think it will get safer.
But also, we don't think that like danny is going to succeed in limiting contracts.
Right?
Like we think that in a world where cars have displays that have maps on them, those contracts can exist on both sides of the house.
The question is just do we keep people using their phones or do we give them the option of having it built into the car?
Proud to oppose.