Don't fight the BDS movement.
Two main areas of clash, first on why we think that the BDS is a good way of forcing change.
Tim tells me about how israel is justified in their actions against the palestinians, and we think the problem here is that he's just lying to you, right?
Like we think that even if palestine does things like commit terror attacks, first two wrongs don't make a right but second that a lot of the individuals that israeli attacks target and that BDS is looking to save are innocents because hamas does not make up the majority of the palestinian population and guess what the majority of the population who are palestinian don't want hamas to be in charge.
So what israel does when it continues to target everyone as though they are a homogenous group is they refuse to recognize that there are innocents who do not deserve to be targeted.
This is unjustified, but even if that's not the case we think that in general even if everyone there is guilty the things that israel does is to such a magnitude that it is still not justified.
Doing things like encouraging settlements in land that is already claimed by others or has active other people living on it so you have to displace them in order to put yourself there, doing things like bombing hospitals which are certainly filled even if not with innocents but at least with those who cannot defend themselves, operations in the gaza strip that killed large amounts of people who were hiding in schools just to send a message, the use of white phosphorus gas, all of these are inexcusable actions that would be declaimed by any international against any international body and we have seen declaimed.
Israel's a technology and manufacturing driven economy.
The only way that the common public can do things like make any kind of change is to make israel feel their anger by targeting what they actually care about and we think that is really hard especially for the common non-jewish individual to have any kind of efficacy there because of the fact that israel is a jewish state, because of the fact that there are so many allies protect where specifically the united states protecting it from this kind of targeted behavior.
When tim tells us about how this is going to do things like hurt israeli business, we just don't care.
First because we think that they are complicit in the government's behavior, but second because that's exactly the point.
We think that very little change is ever made without hurting some innocent.
Any boycott that you have, any protests that exists, any kind of doxing is always going to harm an innocent person who is attached to the people who are culpable even if you go through legal means like sending someone to jail that's still going to hurt someone who is related to that person but we value that justice above the fact above that person's like pain by being connected to them.
Tim assumes that people will turn on BDS and not the government but we think that people aren't stupid, they're going to understand why these kinds of harms are befalling them and we also think that people are more moderate than tim gives them credit for.
It is not the case that everybody in israel, especially member of the youthful population, are raging nationalists that hate palestinians.
Rather the majority of israelis are actually pro things like the two state solution and they just don't have the space to make that more clear.
So we actually think that creating a coalition between those voices can be incredibly effective.
Our second area of clash is about preserving free speech.
When BDS does things like boycotts and protest it exercises its fundamental right to to like express their preferences and express their freedom of speech.
When you have an opinion, we think that it is your right to fight for it.
Fighting BDS would be stifling free speech which deserves to be heard and analyzed by individuals.
We think that the marketplace of ideas is very real so having people hear about whether or not israel is justified and allowing them to form their own opinion is central to creating a world in which we can democratically decide whether or not it's actually a good idea based on majority.
Proud to oppose.