Drew talks a lot about choice, and we think that people still have that choice on our side of the house.
If people are so diametrically opposed to fluoride, then they can buy their own non-fluoridated water from stores in large purified containers and leave the rest of us alone.
We think, in the end, it is much there is a better system when people opt out, given that the majority of people do not care if there is fluoride in their water.
It is a niche group of people, much like anti-vaxxers, who think that science is lies and somehow the government is out to get you.
So we think at the point that this is true, an opt-out system still provides the choice that drew is talking about, and exists in the status quo.
Two areas of clash: the first on why government intervention is justified.
The thing with fluoride is that it is massively beneficial to thousands at no cost to anything to anyone.
There are no fluoride allergies, and drew admits that there are no problematic side effects given how long it has been tested.
In the end, you can't even taste this compound and so it is literally undetectable, unless you've created a complex in your own mind in your own mind.
Unless someone can show me a distinct harm, we're unsure why we should take why we should take it out of the tap water because in the end, we think the government does have the right to paternalize the health of citizens, especially if they're they aren't harming it in the meantime.
So at the point that we can literally have debates about whether women should have access to basic reproductive health with regards to abortion and other things, meaning that this is much less extreme than that and definitely within the government like what what the government ought to be able to like adjudicate over.
More than this though, we think that we have examples of this in the past.
We see this with iodizing salt and the significant decrease in goiters that followed.
In the end, no one's going to say, " stop putting iodine in my in my salt, " because no one cares, you cannot taste it, and it is very, very good for the health of the people.
In the end, dental problems are incredibly bad, both for the individual and for the state.
Physically, they are debilitating.
The nerves that are contained in your teeth are incredibly painful and often cause neurological simple symptoms as well, but also this reflects itself in hospital costs and welfare and medicaid costs.
Because if you lose all your teeth, it is unlikely that you're going to be eating food like a normal person, which means that is no more expensive.
But also because of the side effects that rotting teeth have to the rest of your body, because it can cause diseases like gingivitis that then translate into the like translate through your arteries, we think that the that the government actually cuts down a lot in terms of health care costs through very simple fluoridation.
Our second area of clash has to do with societal importance.
Dental hygiene is a problem for everyone because it requires constant focus and consistency.
Like how many times have you gone to the dentist, and they've been like " floss more, " and you're like " yeah, sure, " and then you just don't because in the end, people are busy and they kind of forget about their teeth, even though their teeth are incredibly important.
This is especially difficult for those who are poor and cannot afford regular dental checkups and expensive treatments.
We think sure, if you're rich and at the top, it's fine for you to use fluoridated toothpaste, because you're going to the dentist every once in three months.
But for people who don't have access to regular health dental care, we think it's incredibly important for them to have fluoridation because it keeps them up on the day to day, without having to go in for major care that is more expensive.
Simultaneously, we've already explained to you why teeth are incredibly important.
Not only are they important for like basic chewing and swallowing, but also they're important because the kind of work that occurs the kind of problems that occur when you have diseases occurring in your teeth translate to the rest of the body and have massive side effects.
We like we literally have people who when your teeth swell up, it moves to your eyes and you end up blind.
We prefer a world in which this doesn't occur, like otherwise you're in the victorian era, where everyone's teeth were rotten and no one could eat whole food, and that's probably a problem.
Also, recognize that dental work is also one of the most expensive types of medical treatment ever because it requires not only a specialized physician, but often requires specific tools and specific enhancements that are made out of more expensive metals.
The comparative is a world in which people out opt out of a beneficial treatment they probably shouldn't opt out of versus a world in which people just don't have the same kind of level of healthcare that they currently have, and it's infinitely more expensive.
For these reasons, proud to propose.