Don't end progressive taxation.
Sam focuses a lot on how the mechanism is complicated but something being complicated is not a reason not to do it if it is the overall better or more beneficial system.
We'll be able to track evasion the same way on both sides.
If anything it will be easier to hold wealthy people accountable when the tax is progressive because then you will be able to notice that the differences in the amount of money they're paying are not cohesive with what they should be paying much more early.
At the end of the day though, we just don't think this is a round you should ever be voting on based on implementation harms because implementation for these kinds of policies can always be something that we revisit later, can add more oversight to you or manipulate in a million other ways that makes it better.
So we think that if that's the only issue that sam has, the fact that we will always be getting at least some more money from these people who are more rich but also charging those who are poorer significantly less, will always win the round.
Two main arguments: first, on the moral justification.
I want to briefly talk about purchasing power parity because the amount that every dollar means to someone who is poorer is infinitely more than for someone who is richer.
This is because when money is rarer you value what you can buy with it much more and this is especially true since it also means that a larger portion of your salary goes right to necessities like food.
So where as the money that a poorer person spends often goes to making sure they stay alive, for a rich person the money they always have enough money for what they need and the money that they spend is often just that that would have been spent on luxury goods or other entertainment.
Thus we think it is unfair to tax everyone at a flat percentage because this percentage will always hit those who are poorer harder.
It also means that those who are richer aren't contributing equally to the system which is incredibly problematic because these are exactly the people who should be contributing more because they have benefited more but more than this, we think that richer people make their money by taking advantage of those who are poorer or government infrastructure systems.
Since the amount they benefit off of those systems is larger, they should also pay back a higher amount to support it.
Our second argument is that it is pragmatically beneficial.
It provides the government with more money to put into social services and safety nets especially since this often invests in individuals who are born significantly less privileged than the rich people who end up paying for progressive taxes.
It also creates a greater feeling of social civic duty and good works in that people feel like they're actually contributing to the society that they live in and can see the impact that their money makes.
It also does things like keep the poor from literally starving due to really aggressive flat taxes because in the status quo if you want to meaningfully tax or in a situation where you have flat taxes if you want to meaningfully tax those were richer you have to hike the rig really high which then ends up disproportionately harming those who are poorer.
Sam is worried about people struggling with paying their taxes and we think this is fine because it will really only get complicated in those higher brackets and as sam says those people can pay others to do their taxes anyway so we don't really care about them but moreover, we think that at the point that we have websites like turbotax or any of those which can get through your taxes really quickly even if you are someone who can't pay for the service, we don't think this is an issue.
Like HR block is free for use and easily picks people through our tax code despite the fact that there might be complicated things there.
Sam worries that people won't pursue higher paying jobs.
Like we just don't think this is true and if it is it is a marginal impact at best.
Insofar as they'll still make more money at those jobs it's going to be a marginal difference in terms of how much they lose off of that tax and even if this has an impact, it is small at best and doesn't outweigh our other arguments which we think are more important.
Like we're fine with a world that has marginally less innovation if it's also a world in which the majority of poorer people have better infrastructure, spending and better social safety nets.
Proud to oppose.