Don't abolish eminent domain.
We recognize that the coverage of eminent domain has been extended significantly over the last century and we're fine with rolling back some of those extensions and adding protections like preventing the seizure of public housing.
But we recognize that once you have made those protections, once you have rolled back those extensions, the original concept of eminent domain is still one that is incredibly valid and necessary in today's democracy and today's country.
This isn't a round about politicians.
Eminent domain is by bureaucratic government agencies that are trying to get things done.
We want to address tim's right to property right now.
Recognize that it still exists on both sides of the house, but we can see that it is not absolute when it interferes with the needs of the state and the majority of the people as per the guidelines of eminent domain.
We would agree with tim if it was the case that there was no such law written into the code of the united states.
If the government just randomly one day given preexisting protections on private property decided that it was going to do things that were in line with eminent domain that would be bad.
But given that eminent domain does exist, given that it has been written into the law, and given that every single american citizen has been given the opportunity to familiarize with them with themselves with that text we do not think it is unfair.
Moreover we think that tim is massively exaggerating the insecurity that eminent domain creates.
Given that it doesn't get used that often and has specific requirements and laws attached, we see that people don't consider eminent domain when they go about their daily life in that it doesn't really affect their personal security as tim would like you to believe.
People still form communities, people still buy houses, people still feel relatively safe in those houses because they know that even though eminent domain might exist it is not something that is commonly utilized.
Two main arguments, first on the necessity that eminent domain is when you're having infrastructure planning.
Houses and land, especially those near cities and highways, often get in the way of expanding infrastructure.
The government will often want to build libraries, courts, prisons, and other institutions that are necessary for society functioning and bettering people's lives.
We need to be able to find convenient spaces for this that won't destroy traffic or interfere with people's everyday lives in a way that would make it untenable over the long term.
Like we think that doing things like adding a social space that is meant to attract a lot of people takes really intensive planning and without eminent domain it's possible that the government just won't get access to any of those spaces which in the long term rebound on the general populace and makes living in those areas a worse experience for everybody.
We need to be able to prioritize long term conditions of our cities since people will be living there for generations into the future.
It would also allow people to up charge the government significantly if there wasn't eminent domain but the land was necessary for city planning.
This would make infrastructure spending harder and more costly which would likely rebound in higher taxes since the infrastructure would need to get built either way, it's just a matter of how much the government is paying in order to get the land it wants to do that on and whether it is compromising on the location.
This is especially true since oftentimes highways and freeways have to be built in really specific areas so you can't shop around and court different sellers.
This means that if the land is owned by someone they can really charge millions for empty land because the alternative would be an road.
Our second argument is about prioritizing the public economic development.
Things like building railroads and other roads is important.
People cede their rights to the government when they live within the state.
They need to trust the government to make good decisions on their behalf and this includes eminent domain for city planning.
It doesn't get used often enough for there to be too many harms to people, and this means that although some people are getting shafted, it's so few of them that the potential benefit to society is so large that we just don't care.
We don't think it's something that's unethical.
We don't think that people have any real right to the land passed what they paid for it.
Eminent domain doesn't allow the government to take things without warning, people have to be compensated.
And at the point that they are, we think that the choice of the government to prioritize the general populace is correct.
Proud to oppose.