Don't end mandatory retirement.
We are not opposed to doing things like raising the retirement age to mitigate a lot of tim's harms.
Tim is worried about them needing money, but we also think there are a lot of sectors that usually take individuals who are retired, so these people can still work as things like librarians, security guards, hospital greeting staff, etcetera.
We just shift them to less intensive sectors.
And tim says that this misuses their experience, but we think that it's just true that when you get older, there are skills you don't acquire that are more necessary than the skills that you had before.
Sure, you might be someone who has a lot of wisdom to share, but that just means that you might be a really good teacher, it doesn't mean that you can keep up with rising technology or the rising needs of your workspace.
So I don't think that he actually brings you any real argumentation about why these people are more qualified than those who are recent graduates, who have more on-hand experience and have grown up with the technology that these individuals have only lived long enough to see the beginning of.
Tim spends a lot of time raging against age-based restrictions more broadly, but we think that age-based restrictions are good approximations of other qualities, especially because it's impossible to test efficiently for the other metrics that tim is talking about.
As the US government, you need some shortcuts in order to not waste a lot of resources on individual testing.
At the end of the day, it is ridiculously unfeasible to test every single old person, like, maybe annually or, like, even if it's every two years, so that you can selectively take out the ones who are beginning to show signs of cognitive failure.
We'd rather have a broad policy that might be a little bit unfair in some cases, rather than put so much stress, both financially and like bureaucratically, on the government.
Two main arguments: first, on making sure that the youth have jobs.
We're fine with being a little bit unfair to older workers if we can help those who are younger and have not established themselves yet.
Sure, it sucks that sometimes people are forced into retirement before they are ready, but this reflects the weighing of a more important need of society.
Young people are more central to the functioning of society and larger economic systems than those who are older, first, because there are a lot more economic safety nets in place for those who are older.
Things like social security and medicare are perfect examples of things that older people will have access to when forced into retirement that young people struggling to find a job simply don't.
Moreover, a lot of older people have younger family members who can sustain them in a way that a younger individual doesn't have if they are struggling.
We live in a time where the job market generally is pretty slim.
We need to prioritize making sure that younger populations are getting jobs.
Old people are keeping a lot of their jobs and preventing them from being available or competed for, and this is especially since younger people keep the economic sphere going in other ways.
They are the ones who continue to contribute to social security, have more years to do that.
We rely on them to have the next generation of children, which happens more safely if they have a job.
Our second argument is about keeping efficient systems.
There's a point where any old person, even the one in the best mental and physical shape, is going to be worse at their job than someone who is younger.
This is because the technology changes, the rules shift, the language shifts.
Although someone older might be able to keep up with this reasonably, it will be objectively less efficient than someone younger.
We need to give companies a way to cycle into more into this more efficient system.
Without mandatory retirement, it can be really hard to get rid of older people, even when they aren't underperforming.
They can do things like sue for ageism and are often entrenched socially, because they've been there so long.
So it's hard to fire them, simply because they're friends with everybody.
We think that this is a useful excuse for companies that we want to maintain.
Proud to oppose.