The motion for today's debate is that we should fight global warming.
We think the most important thing, to recognize in this round, is that long term safety is always more important, than short term economic gains.
This is true for two reasons, first we tell you that it doesn't matter how much money you have, if you are choking and are dead by the time that you are able to use it.
But second, that in the end money is temporary, but lives are permanent, and ending those lives is more so permanent.
We care more about the fact that people can be dying in the future, than we do about a couple million more dollars, in the pockets of those who are already millionaires.
Not only are they not going to be damaged by short term loss, but the people who are going to be damaged will be damaged much more harshly.
With that, two many areas of clash.
The first, on why we think that global warming is a short term, and long term threat, to the human race.
In the immediate future, we think that we already see signs of global warming, that can cause massive destruction to human infrastructure and livelihood, especially in the ways that we see rising waters sweeping out entire towns, and like groupings of people's homes.
Not only does this immediately remove these people's homes, and cause things like drownings, but more than this, we think that once these things are under water, there that besides these things being underwater, global warming also leads to the increasing of disease.
Things like west nile virus are seen moving farther and farther north, as the temperature changes to be more acceptable for them.
This destroys both individuals with diseases, that they were never acclimated to, and never would have expected, but also destroys the crops that feed them.
With large sweeping destruction of crops comes more human starvation, and more human suffering.
We think, even if you don't buy that we care about long term human lives, we think you do care about the way in which people die, and the way in which they suffer.
Because, the short order pleasure the second order pleasure that I get from spending that extra money is incomparable, to the fact that other people around me are suffering from a much higher order pain.
We think, at the point that they are actively being in pain and harmed, that's all that matters in this round.
We also think, that long term scientists have already explained why global warming will cause massive death in large numbers to the human race.
That overheating will essentially cause the heat of the earth, and and make it so that it is inhabitable to future generations.
We think, at the point that this impacts the the like the entirety of the future of mankind, this is the most important thing in the round.
Our second main area of clash has to do with the economics of global warming.
Because we think that the op will come up, and say a lot about why it's so economically detrimental to fight global warming, but we think it' the opposite is actually true.
We think that, as you lose land mass, it becomes more expensive to rebuild houses, and more expensive to rebuild that farmland elsewhere.
Not to mention, that you're losing oftentimes millions dollars worth of crop land and crops.
We think that when diseases spread to places they haven't been before, not only do they harm humans, but they also harm the crops, and the livestock, that create economic impetus in that area.
Once you do that, you destroy the market for those things, and it damages trade relations.
We think, generally, these are things that are bad for the economy, and we prefer for these regional and local economics to be better, rather than, on the like higher end of the pyramid, for a couple more millionaires to donate a couple more million dollars into the market, that operates outside of the sphere of the common man anyway.
More than this, we think that global warming, and the fight for global warming, drives innovation, in a way that we currently just don't.
Coming up with new green technologies, and being able to market those things, are all very good for good for the economy, and good for trade relations, within like a more global sphere.
We think, at the point that you're actually going to be taking the market out of stagnation on our side of the house, economics is also on the side of fighting global warming.
For these reasons, proud to propose.