The motion for today's debate is that we should fight urbanization.
What we mean by this is that we should incentivize for a living, through subsidies and advertisements, and general government good will towards people who are going to be moving from cities into rural areas.
Two main areas of clash: first on the environment.
So recognize that cities tend to be areas of incredibly concentrated air pollution due to large amounts of exhaust, both through automobile exhaust but also through just general corporation like facilities, housing, and factory exhaust, that tend to be clustered in these very very small areas, and there are also typically large volumes of uncollected waste.
So we've all seen the sides of, or a lot of people have seen photos of the like street sides of new york city, in which garbage just piles up and no one takes care of it, because there's just too much of it for any one group to make it go away for any long period of time.
And there are a few impacts that this causes: first we wanna talk about human health.
Because living in these kinds of situations is incredibly dangerous for human beings.
Not only are you going to have necessarily higher rates of asthma and lung related issues, so like pneumonia increases if you're living in a city because you're breathing in this disgusting muck and smog and like combinations of pollution, but also you're ending up oftentimes with compromised immune systems, which make you more likely to get get different kinds of diseases that could be very dangerous for you.
, it's also bad for the local animals because it causes them to be more sick.
You're inhibiting their population through pollution and loss of their habitat, food sources, and so you're actually completely destroying the natural environment and the natural animal life natural animal life.
It's also just like de facto bad for the environment.
Right?
Like it maximizes global warming insofar as you're basically getting these very very concentrated patches of like potent pollution that rise up, and you end up with like much more eating away at the ozone layer, specifically above cities than anywhere else because of how concentrated the pollution there is.
It also magnifies things like flash flooding because when you have massive swaths of concrete through these areas of cities, you don't actually have any natural drainage, which is why we see that if a like slight, like if a heavy rain or a like slight flood begins, you're much more likely to have that become a much bigger problem because you don't have any natural drainage that would take care of it.
Are second area of clash has to do with why urbanization is socially problematic as well.
First we want to talk about the individual.
Because we think that cities often offer this like false promise of success.
You think that if you move to a city you're going to have more opportunities, you'll have a higher standard of living, like you'll find all these great jobs and live such a good life.
But the problem with this is that it's a completely, it's a complete lie.
Going into a city is not likely to get you a better job.
If only because there are a million other people like you, who have heard this myth and are doing the same thing, all of whom your competing with.
So what's actually ends up happening is a worse situation than what you came from, but a difficult situation to get out of, given that you have to go back and presumably face the people that you left with shame, and given that you spent a lot of resources getting to the city in the first place.
And so it's unlikely that you have those resources to just transition back.
We also think that cities are incredibly psychologically charring: they're loud and they're crowded, there's not enough space for you.
And having to go through repeated failure and hardship is very difficult for a person's self esteem to handle.
Next, let's talk about the societal level.
Cities oftentimes end up being these cesspools of crime of high crime rates and poverty, and with really bad school systems.
Specifically because local governments can't keep up with the population growth.
And so you don't actually have enough money to take care of all of the social services that you need to take care of.
So we think that that when you like combine these costs in very small areas you're going to be able to take care of all those people, but encouraging people who live in more rural areas means of that burden is spread out over more like different local governments and like more separate bureaucracies.
So we think that you're actually going to have better allocation of resources and less poverty and less crime if you decrease urbanization.
For these reasons proud to propose.