Don't ban tattoos.
Danny's only real argument as to why we should is that god doesn't want you to and social norms are going to don't want you to.
Like, the problem here is that it's unclear, like in order to believe this, then we have to believe that god absolutely exists.
We think that on our side of the house, people who believe in god and believe in that punishment can still choose not to get tattoos so they don't get affected, but those who don't believe in god or don't care if they get punished probably shouldn't be forced into that same wall, just because some people are religious.
We think that the problem with his argument about sodom and gomorrah is that, first, it's unclear if even that happened, but since sodom and gomorrah, it's unclear to us where these public smitings have come from.
Like unless he proves a definite link, we think that the majority of the current disasters are proven either through political incentives of bad people or through natural disasters that maybe god created, but we don't have any proof that he did.
So it seems unfair that people have to modify their lifestyles on the off chance that that is true.
Two main areas of clash: first on why this is an unjustified ban.
Recognize the government can ban things in two worlds: first, if that has if this is something that an individual does that has unjust externalities unto others or if there's a pertinent government interest.
There's no pertinent government interest here, except for maybe a positive one in that it creates an economic market that is good.
But, recognize also that tattoos are one of the purest forms of something that an individual can do that hurts absolutely no one else, IE, unlike smoking cigarettes or playing in a very dangerous sport, it's really unlikely that someone is going to get injured and therefore hurt their family or that someone is going to blow secondhand smoke in someone's face and give them cancer.
So, insofar as this is literally one of the least restrictive things with regards to how it affects other people besides the user, we're unclear on how you can ever ban this.
Like, recognize the government needs to be least restrictive to prevent oppression of people and especially minorities, in situations where the majority would want something regulated.
We think the problem here is even if you buy that the majority of the united states are christians who believe in god smiting you, which we don't think is true, it's unclear why they get to dominate the life of people who don't think the same way.
We think this is especially true when it comes to limits on self-expression.
Recognize that individuals know their own context and desires best, and so we think that they can make that weighing calculus infinitely better than the government can, which essentially just paints everybody with the same broad brush and puts the same incentives onto people.
Our second area of clash is about why is it tattoos are an incredibly like valuable way of self-expression.
First, we think that the good is necessarily idiosyncratic in that every single person has a different conception of what the good is and how that good affects them.
We want individuals to be able to access their own version of the good recognizing that everybody has an equal right to be happy, an equal right to experience the good.
We just don't necessarily have an equal understanding of what that good is.
So we think that societies are created to facilitate the finding of the good for everybody, not just a few.
We think that tattoos can be incredibly meaningful to people who are trying to access the good life in that they can be used to commemorate people, memories, hard times, and anything in-between.
It is a permanent marking that people choose for themselves because they are emotionally attached to that, whether it's the name of their children that's permanently at their heart or the name of an ex-girlfriend that they later want to scratch off, this still represents a valuable part of their life.
We think that cultural significance is also important.
Like a lot of the time tattoos represent parts of religious religions or group identification.
We think that at the end of the day, it's a waste of government money to do something like this.
We think that there are far better ways, things to regulate, and far better things to ban.
Proud to oppose.