Minority groups shouldn't be protected.
I'm sure that gov came up and talked all about the ways in which minority groups are specifically disadvantaged within society such that they need to have special protections allocated to even be able to meet the kind of minimum protections that people not members of those groups get automatically provided with by virtue of not being a minority.
But the problem with this is that even though it is true, it does not address negative externalities that occur when you do allocate minority protections, and we think that those externalities in themselves are enough to not create those protections in the first place.
Three main arguments, first on backlash.
We think that, oftentimes, members of the majority group get, even though unrightfully, upset because they see this as minorities getting special rights, and they exert their argument their anger through both physical and political violence.
First, you just literally get more physical violence against minority individuals.
This might look like things like the ku klux klan having rallies or things like in charlottesville, where there was oftentimes violent outbursts against people who came to counter-protest, but it also just looks like smaller-scale hate crimes within individual areas.
But the second way in which this anger kind of crystallizes is when they elect more conservative politicians who pass harmful policies into the long term.
And this looks like having one president who might increase protections for minority groups, only to have it snatched away by the next person and have even more discriminatory policies passed, which I think is actually something we really saw happen with the arrival of donald trump when, suddenly, all of the positive policies that had been passed, things like affirmative action, things like the prevention of stop and frisk were suddenly back into question because of the fact that the voting demographic that wanted him in power was one that was feeling personally attacked by these protections.
Our second argument is about political tradeoff.
There's a limited amount of political capital for generally liberal policies because of the existence of republicans and how hard it is to pass things through congress.
If you pass laws for specific minorities, you're not passing them for broader groups.
For example, there are massive swathes of white people living below the poverty line that get no support from laws passed for minorities, even though those minorities are oftentimes better off than them.
This means your policies are always very niche and support only small parts of the population as opposed to a majority.
We think it's preferable to pass broad policies that create support for things like poverty, in comparison, because this will actually hit both the intersection of things like race and poverty, but also just help with poverty more generally at the same time.
Our third argument is about the creation of stratification between minority groups.
We think that trying to tailor specific laws to specific groups never captures the totality of oppression, which means that there will always be some groups that are under represented and other groups that are overrepresented and overprotected.
For example, in the united states, minority protections are usually geared towards african americans and can actively hurt other minority groups, like asians, which we see really crystallized in things like affirmative action which, even though it helps people like african americans get into schools, actively prevents as many asians from getting into elite universities.
These laws generalize in such a way as to group more oppressed asian groups with those who are more privileged, such as putting pacific islanders and the vietnamese with chinese and japanese people, which actively harms those who are already more vulnerable subsects of those populations.
This also pits minority groups against each other and fractures political support, which makes it harder to pass future positive policy.
Proud to oppose.