We should ban gerrymandering.
I think the thing that is always going to be most important in these kinds of rounds when we're dealing with government policy and the ways in which individuals get to affect democracy, is that whichever group proves that they are more democratic and adhere to the democratic system better, wins this round.
Why?
Because recognize that when you live in countries like the united states, it doesn't matter what happens to be most efficient when it comes to political systems, and it doesn't matter what one particular political group might want.
What matters is the political opinion of the majority of individuals within that country.
And when your vote is misrepresented based on regional populations and the way that you draw those lines for districts, then you can never ever be truly representative of the individuals that you are created to and beholden to based on the constitution, to protect and reflect.
So we think that this is actually an incredibly easy gov ballot.
As long as we show you that we adhere to the democratic system that the US promises it is, we win the round on face, even if they show that it is more efficient.
Because recognize that literal even if they show that it's more efficient or that it's in the interests of one particular group.
Because recognize that literally everything can be justified as being good for someone, right?
Like we think that complete dictatorship is still good for the individuals who are in power, but we still resist those systems, because we recognize that they are not worth the trade-off.
Three main arguments, first on the inability for politicians to be effective.
When you distort individuals preferences by redrawing district lines so that you essentially obfuscate the individuals who do not agree with a certain party, you eliminate the ability for politicians to see what their substituents are actually asking from them.
So when republicans repeatedly redraw the lines in states like washington so that they can group together red minority democrats with large swathes of republicans, even though those democrats could make up a district on their own, that, sure, brings the republican party more into office, but it also prevents the democratic will of those populations from actually being heard.
And this creates an endless cycle, because politicians can just keep switching the regional lines based on where they think the demographics lie, and the gerrymandering can just allow them to continue to win.
So it just keeps people in power who in an objective sense ought no longer be so.
It also puts their self-enrichment above the will of the public, which is incredibly tyrannical because it basically says " I want to maintain power more than I want to serve the democracy that I promised I would serve ".
Our second argument is about the way in which it decreases civic engagement.
People notice when gerrymandering occurs because the district lines change, and they see that even though they are surrounded by individuals who share their political views, their state isn't reflecting that.
And they see that it delegitimizes their vote by basically making them invisible, if they happen to be that minority political party that's grouped in with that larger amount.
This creates learned helplessness.
People grow politically apathetic because they feel like their voice won't matter anyway.
Which is incredibly problematic, because when you are apathetic and unlikely to engage with your government, that is when you can no longer actually create the country that you want to create, and we think that civic engagement is the way that these countries continue to run.
Our third argument is about the way that it is used to oppress.
You can literally divide a minority group between two regions with large populations of a different group through gerrymandering, which makes it so that those minority groups never get heard, because when votes happen their voices get outshouted, even though those lines should never have been drawn in the first place.
This is especially problematic when it takes the form of racialized lines, because like black individuals in the south oftentimes vote differently from what, say, southern republican whites.
This is really bad because this is a group that historically has been oppressed, that continues to not be able to get their voice heard.
Proud to oppose or propose.