The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce covenant marriage.
What we mean by this is not that this would become the only type of marriage recognized within the eyes of the law but rather that in addition to regular marriage, states would allow individuals the option of entering into a covenant marriage as they are like going through the process of choosing to get married.
So, we're literally just providing it as an option for individuals.
Three main areas of clash: first on maximizing personal choice.
We think that the government shouldn't be forcing anyone into situations in that they don't desire to be in, but simultaneously they probably shouldn't be enforcing individuals not to put themselves into certain situations, unless they meet like a certain standard of harm.
Like we think that insofar as the government wouldn't be forcing anyone into covenant marriage on our side of the house, you're just giving people the ability to choose when it is preferable, but also recognize the purpose of the government is to actualize the preferences of the individuals that make up their constituency.
Clearly, there's enough preference for this option to exist insofar as some states already have it there and people have been using it.
We think it's actively paternalizing to not allow its use then.
We think that individuals know their own contexts and preferences better than anyone else would, including the government, and as such, they're the only ones who can rightfully opt in or opt out.
Opposition will come up here and they'll tell you that individuals can't consent to these kinds of systems, but realistically it's unclear why.
We're not providing you with an infinite barrier to divorce, and also these people are adults.
At the point that it's still possible for them to leave these situations, we just make it a little bit harder.
And at the point that these are individuals who have presumably been around the block, have like built their own conceptions of relationships, like no one is forcing twelve-year-olds to get married, they have some kind of map of the world and their own lives, then we think that there's not actually a world in which the government gets away with saying they can't consent.
We also think it's just a better world when people get as much freedom as possible.
We think even the freedom to make themselves less free is something that ought be protected insofar as it's just pragmatic to a certain extent.
Like literally every contract ever allows us to make ourselves less free or dedicate ourselves to a specific cause, because of these like because it's like pragmatically best for us to be able to tie ourselves down to a job, and we recognize that business incentives exist.
I think at the point that this is how people self-actualize, it is not on the part of the government to tell them " no ", with no like real standard as to why.
Our second area of clash is about respecting religion.
Separation of church and state means that the government can't shine disfavor on religion either.
We think that this is actually an incredibly discriminatory policy when you don't have covenant marriage insofar as it is placing an exclusive block in the face of religious individuals and no one else, and we think that that's like bad and prevents them from being able to live more autonomously and access their religious freedoms.
Our third area of clash is about benefits, because we think there are some things that are just good about these kinds of marriages.
Like requiring things like prior prior counseling is something that the government probably should feel incredibly in favor of insofar as this is a massive decision that people often jump into much too quickly.
So we think that having some sort of barrier that requires you to educate yourself before you get married is probably good, but we're also fine with putting certain barriers in the front of divorce.
At the end of the day, marriage is a massive commitment that ties you economically and physically to an and emotionally to an individual in ways that dating never can make you.
At the point that this is true and it's such a big commitment, we don't think that it should be incredibly easy for someone to back out of that commitment, and we think that the weighing calculus to enter into it in the first place ought be relatively swayed to the side of not doing so, like to make sure that you really are like sure that you're going to do it.
We also think that at the point that divorces come at a fairly high cost to outside individuals, it should be relatively difficult to get one.
Like if you're a child and your parents are in the middle of getting a divorce, that's something which is really difficult for you to handle and ought be recognized, and probably ought be prevented as much as possible in these situations.
For these reasons, proud to propose.