Don't abolish the presidential pardon.
It's important to note that pardons don't get used very often.
There are massive incentives to refrain from its use because it's likely that the public and corporations that got you into office will get angry if it looks like you're acting undemocratically.
So we agree with danny.
There is an impression of the part in being undemocratic, but we think that public impression isn't everything.
All it does is serve as a good counterbalance towards the president using it whenever they want.
Just because something might look democratic doesn't mean it still isn't necessary and isn't used often in democratic ways.
Which brings us to two arguments, first on checking the judicial and executive branch.
We disagree with danny.
We don't think the pardon is fundamentally undemocratic.
Quite the opposite, we think the pardon is a recognition of the potential downfalls of democracy in other parts of the legal system.
We recognize that minorities might be oppressed by the majority and recognize that even though most of our laws are acquired democratically they are often enforced unjustly.
Every single instance of someone being convicted of a crime isn't the will of the majority as danny seems to say because just because the majority elected that crime doesn't mean the majority sees a specific context of each crime before it's ruled on.
Like if somebody is selling drugs because they live in a neighborhood that they grew up in where gang violence tends to be the only option and alternative and you have to join if you don't want to be attacked, that's something a lot of people are likely to be sympathetic for and something they probably think should be a mitigating circumstance on your drug offense.
But it's also something that those majority of individuals who live in the united states never get to vote on because they can't be in the courtroom for every single trial because we rely on our legislator and our judicial branch to do that kind of prosecution for us and we recognize that they err.
That sometimes it doesn't make sense the way that they vote and sometimes they vote unfairly and that is where the presidential pardon becomes so important.
If there's racial bias, planted evidence, some violation of due process, any number of reasons that we think danny overlooks for why the courts aren't acting as democratically as perhaps their mandate originally was and why it's important to allow groups to like to allow the presidential pardon to kind of overcome that.
Like some laws are unjust and sometimes jaws just laws are applied unjustly.
When this happens it's important to have a higher way to fix that and we have to acknowledge that it's really hard for the average person to get an appeal or get out early without someone coming in and helping them.
We think this is important on a principled level.
It prevents the legislative and judicial branch from running wild and doing bad things.
Our second argument is about motivating legal action.
When the president uses the pardon they make a legal statement.
Like for example when obama pardoned a ton of low level drug offenses, it shows that the law is probably not that great and that at least one very qualified lawyer who we elected to rule the entire country thought it shouldn't be that way, and that gives fuel to groups that are also fighting that law.
So even if it sometimes used corruptly as danny says, we think the fact that it is often used for good is enough to keep it around because liberating a few guilty people is worth the fact that you're also liberating a lot of not guilty people.
Moreover we think that the amount of backlash that occurs when it does get used corruptly is enough to ease all of danny's concerns, right?
Like if someone sees that the that the president is just pardoning their cronies that's a reason that people are going to be really angry with the president.
It's probably going to affect his chances of reelection.
If it's his last term, it's probably going to mean that nobody wants to cooperate with him.
Like there are real consequences to these actions so we just don't think it gets used this way very often.
Proud to oppose.