We should not rescind the affordable care act.
First, I think that it's important to note that the regulatory parts of the law that that tim continually harps upon are possibly one of the most justified acts that the act actually does.
We think that it's not an overstep insofar as these regulations just protect people from the perverse incentives the market often has.
Unless government is always also going to disagree with regulations on education or on big pharma, such as regulations that prevent price gouging or require FDA approval, then they don't have an ability to harp on the regulations imposed by the affordable care act, because all it does is recognizes that companies have perverse incentives that we need to protect individuals from.
Given that they're literally playing with people's lives, we think that preventing the only incentive that companies have, being their profit margin, from dominating the way in which they assign care is actually really, really important in form in in the sense that it is a form of check against often almost all-powerful corporations.
We also would go a step further and say that it is actually the job of the government to regulate the market, since the market is inherently unethical.
We think this is why you have regulations on things like the prices of organs or on the the price of like other important life care stuff, like we think that it's important to note that if you go into a hospital, they still have to treat you regardless of your initial ability to pay.
Even if they charge you afterwards, they're not allowed to let you die there.
Things like that are perfect examples of where the government says, " because we know that this is subject to being unethical, we need to protect people from this. "
Bans on surrogacy are also a great example.
Two main areas of clash now: first on why it's too late.
Recognize that if we wanted to cancel the affordable care act, it needed to happen early on, before people started relying on it.
Given that now you have thousands upon thousands of people that, should they lose their coverage now, would not be able to find another insurance company that would cover them, because everything that they had acquired within the time of being covered by the affordable care act would have would now be considered preexisting condition and would not be covered.
I think it's important to note that this is both harmful for any adults who might have had this, but it is also incredibly harmful to any child who was born under the affordable care act given that now, any birth defects, any like post-birth conditions, all of this goes completely uncovered by private insurance corporations.
We also think that lifesaving treatments and things like that would have to go on pause, even if they could find another insurance company during the time in which the search was happening, which is something that people can physically not afford given that they need this treatment to be continuous in order to continue.
So I'm talking about people who might be on dialysis or any other like prolonged life care.
We also think that given that that it is very rare for the government to decrease taxes after a raise, then the money would likely just get redirected into the military industrial complex, which we think is an infinitely worse end than providing people with medical care.
Our second area of clash is simply about the need for affordable care.
First, recognize that access to medical health care is very much a right of an individual insofar as without that care, someone cannot go to work or pursue happiness, which are guaranteed rights underneath things like the constitution or like many, many different philosophers.
We think that your access to literal life shouldn't be limited by how much you earn insofar as the wage isn't a definition of your inherent worth as a human being.
Rather, it is recognized that all human beings are inherently equal, and thus should probably deserve the same access to life as anyone else.
But we also think that there's a pragmatic benefit in that people are better at contributing to society when their health is taken care of, and it also prevents the situations in which because people are afraid of how much it's going to cost, they allow very real conditions to get worse and worse so that by the end of the day, they are not only more expensive but also more life-threatening, which is both a problem with regards to productivity, but also overloads our medical systems even more.
Catch them early, make it cost less.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.