We should further exploit solar power.
We're fine with coupling this with the exploitation of other green sources of energy as well, we just think that there should be more money and more like energy companies built around solar panel than there are in the status quo.
Three main areas of clash, first promoting good use of resources.
Sunlight is free and available for portions of the day in the vast majority of places.
This is unlike gas and oil that are often restricted to specific areas of land in different countries that tend to be relatively inaccessible to the united states.
We think that it is just smarter to use what is more and more cheaply and more easily available which happens on our side of the house when we go for the thing that literally any country albeit in varying amounts if I am in norway where it is dark for half the year it will be more difficult for me to run a solar panel system but I still can then maybe in the united states but we still think that it's like preferable and the more intelligent decision.
Recognize that oil and gas energy monopolies are a combination of first mover advantage and political lobbying for tax cuts.
When the playing field is level, the choice becomes incredibly obvious: that more exploitation of greener energy sources is both cheaper for us moneywise but also a lot cheaper for us environmentally.
The only way in which we usurp preexisting hegemonies is by the normalization and the exploitation of this kind of use.
We need groups like the government and more powerful actors to say that this is the preferable decision, to advertise on their behalf, and to provide money for research so that it stops being a risky investment for consumers.
Our second area of clash is about clean living.
Recognize that there are massive byproducts to gas and oil in a couple of ways.
First there are large amounts of air pollution we see in cities across japan even in cities across the united states cities literally everywhere that you will have days where there is smog, that asthma rates are going up, that it is just not a like habitable place to live when you are living in a world that is so air polluted as the status quo.
The other issue is that these kind of things leak into our water supply flint michigan still can't get clean water like we see in portions of northeastern new york that because of fracking individuals are finding large amounts of problematic minerals in their water.
But perhaps in the largest way we see that global warming and like greenhouse gas production is created by gas and oil.
Solar is incredibly clean, it doesn't hurt the consumer in the same way it allows individuals to reduce their carbon footprint without any cost to their standard of living as we might see with any kind of other green energy.
Recognize that stopping global warming is also incredibly important.
I don't think I have to tell you about how bad global warming is.
The ways in which it allows the spread of diseases to places those diseases had never previously existed, the way in which it wipes out coastlines and destroys farms, like we think that this is actually one of our top priorities and until we start exploiting other forms of energy then this isn't something that we're going to be able to change and that is very bad.
But our third area of clash is about cost.
We think that solar energy is really good for the consumer.
It is much cheaper because solar panels are a one time purchase rather than a monthly requirement but also there are a lot less cost fluctuation in that maybe every now and then there's a technological update so that the lost generation of solar panels is cheaper than whatever the new fangled technology is but realistically the majority of the time you can rely on solar panels to stay at the same relative cost because the materials that are used to make them are relatively stable.
The problem with oil is that depending on a country and that country's political desires we can have massive fluctuation in price of oil because there is much less of it and the countries that control it have much more of a monopoly on where it goes.
On a larger scale though, there is no cost to extraction for solar energy in the same way that it costs money to create fracking mixtures or pay for it to be transported across country alliance.
Proud to propose.