Don't cancel pride parades.
Look I think the concerns that tim brings up are legitimate.
It is the case that it is a large moving target pride parades to occur in the streets of cities that are rife with conservatives who want them gone however recognize that every single individual in that parade recognize that danger insofar as their entire life is spent avoiding people who wish them harm dealing with large political movements that don't want to give them rights and often dealing with personal violence against them.
We think that insofar as every person experiences that harm on a day-to-day basis they have the ability to consent into that harm when it comes to their personal life and experiencing pleasure.
It just I think that what tim had to do and he didn't accomplish is show why given that the individual wants to have these parades those individuals ought value all of the things he brought up more than their own personal enjoyment.
We tell you that all of the harms tim talks about apply on both sides of the house either way because the existence of being a like queer person in a homophobic community is always going to have the impacts that he talks about.
The question becomes do you let that hold you back from other pleasurable activities.
Three main areas of clash, first on personal empowerment.
Being queer is very very often a burden.
It is difficult, it often requires you to go against things that you have been taught your entire life, sometimes your family does not accept you, and oftentimes you have to face discrimination whether it's physically or like violence-based or later on when you are trying to apply to jobs or colleges.
It's difficult to be queer, but it is unclear what tim's mechanism is to allow individuals to ever enjoy their life.
It seems like he's basically saying accept it, life is difficult, never enjoy yourself again.
We think fundamentally what queer pride parades are is they are expressions of you haven't stopped us.
I like who I am and I will enjoy who I am and I will show who I am in the same way that any straight person has the ability to and I have been denied for so long.
This is something that personally empowers an individual far beyond anything else and recognize that this is the kind of personal empowerment that drives a person forward to continue achieving within their life because if I am not comfortable with who I am on a fundamental level how can I go on to tell others to be comfortable with who they are or to perform at my maximum capacity if this is something that is constantly weighing on my mind.
Tim says something about how people feel shamed for not coming out yet but honestly I am unclear on what his mechanism for this is because nobody likes being in the closet and it is very rare that people stay there because it is safe for them to come out.
We think what this does is shows people who are in bad situations that eventually those situations end and that when they do there's an entire community of individuals waiting for them.
We think the alternative on his side of the house is loneliness and we're unclear on how that is something that makes people feel better.
People aren't going to come out just because they saw a pride parade if everything else in their life tells them they shouldn't, but it is incredibly important that they have the avenue to do so and the understanding that a support network exists.
Our second area of clash is about signaling to broader communities.
There are plenty of people as tim touches upon who are still living in the closet, who exists in dangerous situations in infinitely more homophobic situations than anyone who can participate in a pride parade and we think that demonstrating the existence of a community is often fundamental when you feel like you are the only person who experiences the things that you are experiencing in conservative areas or in a certain subsect of the population so if you like elementary school boy it's often really difficult to come to terms with these parts of your identity.
You also do things like expose other people to that subculture.
You demonstrate that there are human similarities between individuals and that's important whether you are gay or straight.
We think that demonstrating a diversity of cultures within those subcultures when so often we are dominated by the stereotypes of just lesbian and gays is really important as well.
Proud to oppose.