The motion for today's debate is that we should ban international adoption.
For the purposes of this round, we're going to say that we, as the united states government.
With that, three main areas of clash.
The first on government obligation.
We think that the government has obligations to its citizens first, primarily because these are the people that they have promised to protect.
They live underneath a imaginary, of sorts, social contract, in which they pay taxes in, so the government protects them.
They give certain rights up to the government, and so the government is willing to use those rights to keep them safe, secure, and like fulfill whatever rights are dictated by that country's constitution.
The important thing to remember is that, even this imaginary contract applies only between the states and its citizens, because, in the end, the citizens of russia are not paying the US government.
They aren't giving up their rights to the US government, they're giving it up to that of russia.
What this means is that the hierarchy of obligation is always going to be towards the citizens that you directly handle, because the other citizens don't have any ties to your government.
More than this, we think we see this as an acceptable policy in the majority of current country situations.
It's important to note, that the that that every time there is a question between saving one of your citizens, or saving multiple of the citizens of another country, countries choose their own citizens.
Because, not only is this a unspoken contract, it is also an acceptable global law.
So, we think what's important to note is that the the united states foster system, an orphan system, is incredibly bad.
Not only is it underfunded and overstressed, but the numbers of children within it are rising, but their capabilities haven't increased.
What this means is that more than ever, you're seeing children placed with incompetent foster families.
You're seeing lack of resources, and you're seeing them fall through the cracks.
We think as long as there are children within the united states in need of a of a home, it it is a failure of the government to allow families, to go elsewhere to look for children to adopt.
It is in the same way that we are going to take care of our own citizens first, if they are in a tricky situations abroad, we must take care of our own citizens first, when we are within our own borders, and make sure they are not threatened by the adoption of those abroad.
More than this though, we think that the situation is getting worse and worse with regards to adoption in the united states, in part because it it is often bypassed for families to go abroad and look for children.
We think, that once the united states sends a clear message of: this is unacceptable, you're going to see much more resources put into the united states system.
Our second main area of class hostage with why we think they contribute to exploitative systems abroad.
We think, a lot of the time, young american couples, like young white children and often like to hand pick the baby that they adopt from abroad.
What this means is that young women are often pressured into giving up their children, when they fit a certain kind of look, or a certain kind of characteristics, with very little compensation.
We think that if it was a regulatable market, rather than just adoption, this would be a different story.
But because this is adoption, you oftentimes get situations, in which women women are offered money under the table, and feel like they have to give their child up.
More than this, we think that a lot of the time these things have gotten out of control, and you see child trafficking, specifically to get children adopted into the united states, because it is seen as a profitable business.
Our third main area of clash has to do with why it contributes to a loss of culture, because we think that what you're doing, in these situations, is taking children from other countries and oftentimes adopting them to white families.
We saw we see these sights all the time, where currently adoption from south korea is incredibly popular, a few years back adoption from africa was incredibly popular, and it was usually white couples that would take them in and give them a good home.
But the problem is that this home came along with the with no exposure to the cultures from which they came.
We think this is problematic, because what essentially what happened is that these cultures died with the children that were adopted, and they never actually got any like choice in the matter.
We think these children ought be able to consent into what world that they live in, and the only way, in which this can happen, is if they're exposed to their native culture first in their own homeland.
For these reasons, proud to propose.