We shouldn't abandon television.
Our side of the house only defends providing television as an option.
Even if it is true that it is not something that gets used super often anymore or might be a little obsolete, as long as there are people willing to pay for it, we think that the market will solve.
If televisions get cycled out naturally over the next couple of years, we think that is a fair evolution of the market, but we don't think that there should be an artificial stance in which we abandon televisions all at once.
Two main arguments: first, on the market for television.
We don't think that television should be artificially abandoned because the market reflects what people want and prefer.
So when tim talks about the potential increased interconnectedness, we think that's useless if that's not what people want.
In the status quo, you can choose to use other platforms that don't involve television.
The fact that there are people who still choose television shows that this is what they prefer, and we should just honor people's preferences since that's they know their own context, desires, and abilities much better than other people can assume to know those people's abilities, desires, or context.
Television is easily understandable, nostalgic, and easy to access for people who are older as well as those who just aren't very technologically savvy.
Tim talks about community, and we just don't understand why this has to come through the media that you consume.
People find communities as they feel that they need them.
So if I'm someone who's really lonely in reality, maybe I'll go sit on a couple of message boards, or forums, or youtube, and go form communities there, but the vast majority of individuals form communities through people who are in their everyday lives: coworkers, co-college students, any number of people who they associate with daily, who they prefer to associate with and aren't just artificially created by the media that they consume.
Our second argument is about the ease of access and use.
There are a lot of current replacements for television that are very technologically complex, things likes smart TVs, rokus, amazon fire sticks.
These take things take hours to set up and oftentimes have some measure of complicatedness in their use as well.
And it might be really easy for a younger generation that grew up around this technology, but when you are someone who is older maybe, or if you're someone who's just really bad with technology or didn't grow up with a lot of technology around them, then these things can actually just be really inconvenient.
So if you're someone who prefers to spend their money on television instead of these other services, we think that's a completely valid perspective and honors your own abilities.
Television provides an easy to use alternative that lets people have complete control over what they're streaming.
They also tend to be expensive.
These other platforms, if you're someone who only wants to access a very small amount of channels.
Maybe you're someone who only watches the news or only uses television for sports.
Then, at the point that that is true, we don't think that you should have to waste your time with other internet platforms, with their setup or with their cost, if you're really only going to be using a couple of channels and that can be something that is really cheaply bought, often in combination with your internet plan, for your regular TV.
Tim talks about interaction and innovation.
This'll happen either way, because the internet develops independently of people consuming television.
Tim doesn't actually explain how the internet gets better with a decrease in television use.
We also just think that plenty of people don't want interaction.
They might be introverted or just not in the mood, and when that happens, it's fine to want to sit inside your house, on your couch, watching TV.
But he also doesn't actually explain why these norms are different from the internet.
Like, sure, maybe instead of being on the couch, now I'm in front of my computer desk, but I'm still being fairly antisocial, even if I'm communicating with people online.
Like it's not as if I'm going outside or going for walks.
So insofar as the ultimate impact that tim wants to talk about, these like antisocial norms are going to happen on both sides, you might as well let the person decide which platform it happens in front of.
Proud to oppose.