We should subsidize student loans.
We mean by this is that we would prefer the government to allocate a certain amount of money within their budget to pay partially for the loans that students who go to higher education accrue.
We would be fine with incorporating this as part of the like a subsidization rate based on income or something similarly.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is why it is good to encourage people to go to the to go to college.
I think recognize first and foremost that although we live in a world that has made grand steps into making college a more accessible activity through the use of things like of merit-based and financial need based aid we are still far away from achieving a world in which every student who prefers to is able to go to college.
Not just fiscaly.
Recognize that oftentimes financial based aid doesn't account for a fairly large fraction of students who are to have too much money to be to qualify for financial aid based on their income but don't have quite enough in order to cover college comfortably.
What this means is that these are often students who take out large amounts of loans but don't actually have anything to help them offset that cost but more than that there are also students who are simply scared away from going to college at all by the concept of having to take out loans or by the concept of exploring how expensive it is and we think that this is a combined optic and actually real harm in terms of how people feel going to college would would affect them fiscally.
We think that encouraging people to go to college is generally a good thing for a couple of reasons.
First recognize that we are vastly moving towards a world in which a college education is a prerequisite to any kind of job that will you pay will pay you more than above more than the minimum wage or enough to be actually livable.
And even jobs that don't technically require the skills that you acquire for college will still prioritize college graduates above someone who did not have a college degree.
But more than this, recognize that generally the boost in income that college will provide you even if it's the case that you would be able to find a job without a college degree, is usually significant enough that it would change the standard of living quite a bit for someone so we think that's also a good thing.
But finally we think that even if in the end of the day you're going to choose the same job that you would have received without a college degree the idea of having more options in a world where the job market tends to be unstable is always preferable to a world where it is not.
But second area of clash which is more related to this is why it is good for the economy.
Because recognize first that when you have more people attending college because they see the barrier to college as lower than that is good because these are people who will make more money when they when they have a job more money that they put back into the economy things like that but second and and this also interacts with the unemployment rate so we think that people who go to college and find jobs as opposed to individuals who don't go to college have a much larger employment rate that is definitely good for the economy but more than this recognize that once you are out of college if you have a large amount of loans there's a trade off between the amount of money that you have for non necessary goods compared to how much you have to spend on those loans.
We think it is always better for the economy if individuals spend their money on tradable goods or on other such like stimulative things that stimulate the economy instead of having to pay that money off in loans.
We also think that this generally makes people grow up a lot faster so we think that what happens on their side of the house a lot is that students who just graduated tend to move back in with their parents and take a little bit longer to become economically independent and we think that it is always better for the economy if individuals are fiscally independent.
But finally and third area of clash, recognize that college has become vastly a necessity and we think that in a world in which it has governments need to adjust to that and provide avenues for citizens to achieve a livable goal, not just bceause it is economically good but because it is fundamental to individuals.
Proud to propose.