The motion for today's debate is that we should limit the right to self defense.
We mean by this is that currently there's like this very nebulous line in which people can say that they felt threatened or had like a perception of a threat and get away with like claiming the right to self defense when they caused someone else harm.
We think this needs to be stricter standard, it can't just be I felt threatened rather they have to demonstrate a real threat via like real violence occurring or some weapon being involved or some intent on the part of the individual that shows that there was a real threat rather than just a perceived threat.
Two main areas of clash, first on adressing police brutality and other racial biases.
There's a problem in the status quo where because of racial stereotyping and biases certain groups of people are automatically perceived to be more of a threat ie a white person in the same situation and occupying the same space as a black person is much much less likely to be seen as threatening or assumed to have had like some kind of violent or dangerous desires.
For example a black child was shot like two years ago when holding a toy gun because the police thought like confused it for a real one and just shot at them.
The problem here is that had this child been white the same kind of threshold for this is a threat would never have been reached because it would have been way more higher.
We think this is really problematic because it's completely based on the color of a person's skin and the way that they are perceived in society and given that it is society that has created this perception of black youth being thugs and people of color being more likely to commit crimes eventhough this is not this is not true and in the situations where it is it is based again in societal like shoving them into poor areas and being awful.
We think that this is like very problematic.
People don't regulate themselves when they feel like the law will absolutely protect them.
There's no incentive to check before you shoot or like put your hand finger in a different place so that you don't get trigger happy because you know that if you do you can just claim self defense and move on, so you don't you like choose to be risk averse for yourself.
This is especially relevant with police because they hold so much power over individuals in society and have so much protection from the government that allows them to do disproportionate amount of harms and it's impossible to target them specifically without backlash so this kind of broad legislation would be especially helpful in like affecting both the common person but especially affecting police so that you have less like thin blue line protests where they're like oh you're especially shitting on police.
Our second area of clash is about balancing the protection of individual rights.
Just as there is a right to self defense, people also have a right to life.
The problem occurs when the two start to encroach on each other such in a situation where someone feels like that right to life is threatened and so takes away someone else's life in the process.
But I think that these kinds of things need to be imagined in terms of threshold like we think that at the point that one person feels threatened but it comes at the risk of the life of another person when the first person was never in any danger in the first place we probably value that person who just got shot life a lot more.
So yeah this is a balancing act but recognize that there isn't an absolute right to self defense insofar as it gives a disproportionate amount of power to individuals over other people's rights.
And if the the we need to prevent the misuse and so it needs to be limited and so there's like no other way for the government to control these kinds of things because there's no way for someone else to be present in every single situation where this is necessary to be viewed.
This is similar to the freedom of speech.
Slander and libel aren't protected because it encroaches on other people's rights eventhough technically they're just forms of speech that technically are like free if we believe in an absolute freedom of speech but we recognize that sometimes other people's rights outweigh those of those of some and so we think this is a very similar situation where like maybe this is where it like me having to check twice is very unlikely to affect me but could cause someone else their life.
Proud to propose.