We shouldn't nationalize the petroleum industry.
I'm sure that government came up here and talked all about how nationalizing the petroleum industry will allow the government to do things like place a maximum ceiling on how high gas prices can go on can go up or how the market will fluctuate, but I think that when they make these kinds of broad assertions, they're only thinking about the positive effects, but they aren't considering the kind of forces that make market prices the correct way to price things or what the implications, other than just price ceilings, would look like when you nationalize the petroleum industry.
We have three arguments: first, that it creates a system of cronyism.
In every nation that this has occurred, see saudi arabia, the government puts people in charge who are already high up in power.
These people hire their friends and family rather than people who would actually do well at the job, and this ingratiates people and families in power and allows them to accumulate wealth, which makes them impenetrable to firing if they're not doing a good job or if they're simply not caring.
And the paycheck doesn't depend on profits or size, which means there is no incentive for executives to make sure that the company does well, because they're going to get paid either way.
This is also why innovation doesn't happen, because there isn't a profit motivation because the government sets the wage either way.
Our second argument is that we shouldn't use petroleum for political ends.
If petroleum is nationalized, then the government allows the company to acquire political incentives by virtue of being part of them, and this means that it gets used to punish countries that have displeased the united states at that moment.
And we actually think it's a really bad idea to deprive people of fuel because their governments are at war, first, because this is just punishing individuals who often have absolutely no control over the individual decisions of their nation ; second, because we think that, in general, it is not profitable, even if it is politically preferable for us to refuse service to these groups ; and third, because we don't think that this is just something that ought happen, right?
We think that at the end of the day, access to fuel is something that is very much presupposed in modern-day society.
And the kinds of rights violations that you impose when you prevent that access from occurring is infinitely larger than any kind of rights violations those nations might have committed in the first place, and we don't see this kind of politicization of petroleum if it stays within the private market, where it's governed by market forces rather than political ones.
Our third argument is about inefficiency.
We already touched on this a little bit.
When the wage of your executives is not tied to the success of the company, there isn't an incentive for those executives to try particularly hard, but also you just end up with a lot more bureaucracy, which makes the government infinitely less efficient than the private market and infinitely less capable of responding to fast fluctuations or fast changes.
We also just think that you have to make allowances for a public good that a regular company wouldn't have to.
Like we think the fact that the government will control the industry, first, means that any kind of profits don't necessarily get reinvested or given to executives, rather they can do things like bail out other groups, but also they end up with things like ceilings on their prices, which means they can't keep themselves competitive in a market where things are constantly changing.
And all of this prevents a nationalized petroleum industry from being as profitable and strong as possible which means, on net, the prices will be higher than they could be and that less innovation and higher quality kind of like progress will occur.
Proud to oppose.