We shouldn't subsidize hospice care.
I'm sure that government spent awhile talking about how because the age at which people die has gotten so much higher, the individuals, when they do die, often die from things like chronic illnesses so, a lot of the time, the aging population requires hospice care, and that's something that the US ought adopt to.
But I think the problem here is that they're forgetting that even if it is the case that we now have higher rates of chronic illnesses due to the fact that we have an aging population, it's still an incredibly niche population, right?
This isn't something like subsidizing broad nursing home care, where you're just taking care of the geriatric population in general.
And this isn't like broad education policy or broad education subsidization, where you're taking care of everybody who accesses that good, rather there's a very specific subset of people who are unfortunate enough to contract a chronic illness late in life and end up needing hospice care in the first place.
And although this is something that is important and something that both sides are going to agree is good, the debate isn't about whether hospice care is good.
The debate is about government money.
And in those kinds of debates, we need to talk about how the government needs to prioritize spending that cash.
So, at the end of the day, if we show you that even if hospice care is necessary and positive, it shouldn't be spent on by the government specifically, we win this round.
Two main arguments, first on it being expensive.
Recognize that subsidies always trade off.
If the government is paying for one thing, it means that it necessarily cannot be paying for another, because the money simply doesn't exist anymore.
And we think that at the the problem with something like paying for hospice care is that you're saying, " hey, look, this one particular thing is so important that we should be subsidizing it at the cost of literally everything else we could be subsidizing it with. "
And I think that's actually a fairly strong burden on side government to prove that hospice care is that necessary, right?
Because even if it is true that we don't want people to suffer, even if it's true that we want them taken care of in their old age, we think there are other avenues, in the status quo, that take care of those situations, right?
Like we have insurance that covers a fairly large amount, depending on your plan of end of life care, things like medicare and medicaid, which are specifically designed to make sure that people are taken care of in their old age.
A lot of the time, families are willing to take care of individuals.
We don't think that this is something that is as important as, say, these other services that appeal to a much broader part of the population which has to do with things like food and shelter and education, things that literally you cannot live without, comparatively, whereas hospice care is just about facilitating the end of life.
And we think the government needs to prioritize facilitating people's current life and progression through life, and this is especially true because society is doing a really good job of coming up with treatments, right?
Like we have a lot of potential treatments for a lot of the chronic conditions that we're talking about and rehabilitation for those conditions.
So we think that at the end of the day, this isn't nearly going to be as bad of a problem as we continue to grow and develop as a nation.
Our second argument is just that we don't think it should be a public expenditure.
We think that end of life care isn't the government's job, especially because the government is using the money of the average taxpayer.
And when you're using money of those taxpayers, you have to make sure that you're benefiting as many people as possible because, otherwise, those tax monies could have just been used for people to benefit themselves and figure their own life out.
And in those situations, we do think the government needs to make sure that the money that is going into them is benefiting as many of the people who paid into that system as possible, which just doesn't happen when you're subsidizing subsidizing hospice care and the vast majority of people who paid those taxes will never experience the subsidy themselves.
And it's just not such a fundamental right that we think it trumps basic needs like food, or shelter, or education.
Proud to oppose.