The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon democracy.
We mean by this is that we prefer a world in which countries rather than being governed by democracy were governed by an oligarch or like some kind of like main singular body that makes the majority of the decisions like obviously we think that oftentimes public will still influences these kinds of rulers we just think there's a difference between having a system that is based in the mechanism of like communication electing your political officials etcetera versus having a system in which you like there is like one main ruling body that chooses whether or not to take the like concerns of people into play.
Three main areas of clash, first on why why democracy precludes systemic change.
Recognize that because collections of people in democracies create institutions that last for years and years and years even after their own terms have expired even when you switch out the individuals in that system the institution that allows certain power cycles to propagate remains.
Like in the united states when the president has disproportionate amount of power over the allocations of the military that's not something that we can change we just hope to god that someone nice is occupying that field.
The problem there is that people are unlikely to advocate for any kind of systematic change because people see their politicians as the arbiters of the problem in these kinds of systems.
So even when we like see a problem occurring the only thing that we do because the only thing we know how to do and the only thing that we imagine being possibly the problem is switch out that elected official and then we're surprised when the same issue propagates over and over and over again.
The difference that occurs with oligarchs or like any kind of nondemocratic regime is that the group in power is also the institution itself so it is way more likely that you are able to overturn the group in power and therefore revamp the entire system than can ever occur in a democracy because in a nondemocratic regime that person is the institution and anyone who replaces them will have a different set of ideals a different way of dealing with the world etcetera etcetera.
So I think that when nondemocratic regimes have systematic flaws it is way more likely that you were able to fix those systematic flaws because you're going to have something like an uprising and shift the entire power dynamic than in a democracy where people just kept telling each other to vote more and change who their political officials are but never target the real problem at hand.
Our second area of clash is about why people are poor arbiters of the good.
No one votes for things like higher taxes, increase spending on schools, things that are incredibly beneficial in the long term but have very little cult like good benefit for people in the short term.
The reason for this is that people don't think into the long term they consider the impacts on themselves and oftentimes of that our most immediate and so they think about like will I have more money in this next coming pay cycle and if the answer is no they do not support that policy because they don't think about the world that they're trying to create and they don't think about people who aren't them.
This is what the republican party is so strong because they're able to tell their constituents like look we just want you to take care of yourself we think that you deserve your earnings etcetera meanwhile thousands and thousands of people starve because we're because we're unwilling to recognize that they need extra support.
So we think that what happens in like in like nondemocratic regimes is that if the that you have one person at the top and if they are a poor arbiter of the good and people are oppressed you have instability and unrest that often leads to the overturning of that individual in the reelection of or like the possession of the throne by someone else and that person is much more likely to be a like better arbiter of the good or else they risk the same.
There's an incentive structure that requires individuals in power to take care of the people who they're governing regardless of the fact they're not democratically elected because they are afraid of being unseated.
So we actually think it's way impair likely that someone who wants their country to thrive is going to do things like have high taxes on people regardless of political will because they see that they have to compete with other countries in the long term but simultaneously they're not going to overlook the underclass because they're afraid that the underclass can grow powerful and overturn them.
For these reasons proud to propose.