Don't privatize the postal service.
Drew rails on and on about how our tax dollars are going towards our postal service but doesn't actually prove that it's a bad thing this is where money goes.
It's unclear what drew's suggestion is given that it would be completely unrealistic to make everything into an urban area.
So when he does this thing where he yells about how it's problematic that people in rural areas are paying the same as urban areas he forgets that the people who choose to live in urban areas are doing people a really big favor because urban areas are already overcrowded.
So if you were to bring those people closer in it would do a disservice in many more ways than the amount of money that comes out of our tax dollars to pay for their postal services.
We also just think that it's the fact of the matter that any subsidization of a service or good is a subsidization of someone's lifestyle.
Whether it's medical care, a particular food, like drew clearly doesn't have a solid bright line for when the government should or shouldn't subsidize something given that he says this shouldn't be subsidized on the basis of it being a life lifestyle choice.
But he probably supports the subsidization of baby formula or baby diapers or something similar even though having children is also a lifestyle choice.
Three main arguments, first on maintaining egalitarian services.
The government can't just decide that it won't deliver mail to a specific area where that certain groups of people won't provide them with enough of a profit the way that private corporations can.
Because if the government did that, there would be massive backlash about it not fulfilling its rules and obligations.
Corporations have no such obligations to the american people at large, only to profit and their shareholders.
This means that if it's unprofitable to deliver mail to a certain area or a certain population, they simply won't do so.
Rural areas are likely to carry the brunt of this which is really bad because this also happens to be the area that use the postal services most.
Delivering mail shouldn't be about turning a profit.
It's a valuable public service that allows billions of people within a country to maintain connection with each other and to receive the items they want from each other.
The postal service delivers forty percent of the world's cards and letters and even though snail mail is less common now, it's still an important part of many people's lives.
Spending tax money to keep this afloat isn't a bad thing much in the way that spending tax money on other public services isn't a bad thing.
Just because something is at a deficit doesn't automatically make it bad unless it's a private corporation.
It is the fact that it is the government involved that makes this something that we can actually support and do.
Our second argument is that it is expensive.
In order to even start the privatization process, the US would have to make the postal service appear to be competitive and have profitability potential in order to even attract the individuals that would consider buying it.
This would mean pouring millions of dollars into it to as well as deregulation of the postal service which would be opposed by both parties and contribute to congressional gridlock.
But the more important thing to take away from here is just that when you are going to be if you're going to have to pour millions more dollars into it first just in order for it to be bought and barely make up that difference, we don't understand why the government just can't keep supporting it.
Our third argument is about jobs.
The government provides good benefits and a living wage to thousands of employees, and if you were to privatize the postal service it will result in tons of jobs lost and likely significantly lower wages given that it would now be owned by a private corporation.
It is unclear why it's a bad thing that people are getting good benefits that then that drew keeps talking about.
At the end of the day we think it is only a net positive that there are some people who can rely on their pensions, who can rely on their wages, and rely on their jobs.
Privatization will always allow those people to be mistreated and for their jobs to be cut.
Proud to oppose.