Don't adopt the metric system.
First we disagree with danny.
We think that this is actually an incredibly difficult transition.
The only thing he considers is how it's being it's easy to transition to mentally, something we're going to question on our first independent point.
But he forgets that there are plenty of mechanistic reasons as to why the metric system implementation is actually really difficult.
Like all the stuff that we'll have to reproduce and replace, the institutions of learning that will have to be fundamentally changed, and all of these kinds of things that both add up in terms of cost but also in terms of manpower and in terms of just like adding to that difficulty.
So and I think this is a very problematic aspect of danny's speech.
Even if he proves the metric system is intuitively better for any kind of reason, if you cannot prove that it is so much better, that it is worth overcoming these kinds of difficulties, we don't think he can win this round because at the end of the day we're okay with settling for something that might be less efficient or less intuitive given that people have clearly shown they are capable of absorbing and operating within it as long as it means we don't have to face those kinds of costs.
Two main arguments, first on the unnecessary confusion.
Technology can easily convert between the metric system and they can and the imperial system.
And while it may have been true in the past that the imperial system was actively detrimental due to how often conversions were necessary, at this point we have enough technology and enough separation between spaces that the need for the metric system and those that need the imperial system that this is a non issue.
Since it is so unnecessary we value the confusion it would create even more.
This is the real matter reason it's not so easy to convert.
People in science, engineering, other fields that have international collaboration and applications of measurements are already using the metric system in the status quo.
And high schoolers who are taking those specialized classes are also learning the metric system.
But for the average american who doesn't need this specialized information, switching to the metric system will disrupt a significant portion of their everyday life.
Every application for everyday life that is currently using the english system will need to change from buying milk, gas, measuring the temperature, weighing something out, and these are all things that people have already created schemas and expectations for.
There is no reason to just stabilize the american population this way given that we can already use the metric system when we need to.
We agree intuitively it might be easier to learn the metric system because as danny says it goes by tens and hundreds.
But we think that it's harder to learn once you've already learned the customary system.
Moreover we don't think the customary system is that hard to memorize.
People usually learn it early and are able to look things up that they use less often, but maybe if you're someone who really often works with temperature or really frequently works with gas measurements, those are things that are fairly ingrained within the customary system.
So shifting thought would be problematic.
Our second argument is about it being expensive.
The second reason that it's really not an easy transition as danny claims you have to change the measurements on all packaged products whether it's food, housing lots, temperature, mileage and speed signs, vehicle production has to completely shift.
Like this is literally millions and millions of dollars both in the public sector and also in the private sector that have to go into these kinds of shifts.
The burden is also you also have to change all of the textbooks and current educational material.
So this is also millions of dollars worth of changes, especially given the high price of textbooks and educational materials more broadly.
And recognize the burden is likely to fall on individual schools and teachers given how hostile the current administration has been towards education spending and supporting our schools.
This means that private schools and rich public schools will likely be able to make the shift, but poor public schools in areas are going to be stuck with the same materials as before which is doubly problematic because now you have a class striation in terms of what people are learning and how obsolete that knowledge is.
Proud to oppose.