We shouldn't increase immigration to the US.
Two main arguments: first on increasing islamophobia and immigrant hatred.
People see immigrants as competition for their jobs, college slots and common resources.
If you increase the amount especially in current political conditions where we have a really really extremist republican president who has no problem using fearmongering language and insulting cultural minorities, it just means that people will be blaming them more and more for any issues we might come into.
You're going to have situations of increased violence and harassment and discrimination and the problem is going to be that that these harms will fall not just on individuals who have newly immigrated but also against all immigrants who were previously in the country even those who have been there for a long time.
You need to prioritize protecting the immigrants that we let in and you can't do that if it is a high amount that distorts public perception of immigration in general.
James talks about humanitarianism.
He says that we have an obligation to help these people because we have harmed their countries in the past and this is potentially true but we think that it applies to the majority of western colonialist bodies.
So sure, the US should take immigrants and it does in the status quo but it is not uniquely obligated to take in immigrants compared to say countries like the UK or other eurozone nations or france and even if it is true that we have this obligation given that they are likely going to face increased violence and discrimination in the US as well, we don't think we're being very humane by increasing immigration.
James spent some time talking about the spirit of america.
He says that we are a country of immigrants and we grow from them and it is still the case that the US except a very large amount of immigrants but also we don't think we have an obligation to reflect back on that if it isn't beneficial for the US.
So the fact that at some point in time we were a country that only took immigrants, doesn't reflect the fact that over time our needs and desires as a nation change.
Our second argument is about messing up US infrastructure.
We don't have the infrastructure to sustain large influxes of immigration.
We don't have things like enough language centers, housing, transitional facilities and it means that if we increase immigration we're going to have to have we're going to have massive difficulties with sustaining and placing those people into productive lives and jobs.
We think it is better to have smaller amounts of immigration but be able to accommodate a seamless transition into US life fully.
This also extends to things like healthcare and housing infrastructure.
We just don't have the ability for our healthcare system to accommodate so many people when they're likely not to have the money early on.
Immigrants tend to aggregate near the site at which they enter the country so finding ways to displace them into areas that have available housing is going to be hard.
James talks about economic growth but this can only happen if the transition a successful.
If immigrants are getting gummed up in the system, they can't do things like start the businesses that james wants them to start.
But also if the GDP doubles but the population also doubles that doesn't mean that anyone is getting a higher quality of life or getting richer.
We think that james is using bad standards because he's not considering the proportions between the nation's output and the people within it.
We also just think that this gets outweighed by the fact that the general population gets angry and starts doing things like electing more extreme politicians because they don't appreciate the fact that they now feel like they are competing with these immigrants.
We think that you have to recognize the majority of the rhetoric of conservative republicans and conservative individuals is that they are really upset at the idea that these immigrants might be stealing their jobs and aren't going to be dealing with the truth of whether or not this is something that is happening in reality on either side.
So it is enough that these people can fearmonger and say that these immigrants are bad to harm every immigrant that exists in the united states.
Don't do that.
Proud to oppose.