The motion for today's debate is that we should ban hunting.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on it being an unethical practice, because recognize that regardless where you stand on the idea of animal rights, the majority of individuals except that animals have some rights.
Given that animals still have very human-like emotions, even if not necessarily human like sentience in that they still feel pain, they still feel suffering, and these are still disfavorable conditions to them right like an animal doesn't want to suffer, it wants to avoid pain and it wants to garner pleasure.
So even if it is ethical to kill and eat an animal, even though they're arguments against this as well, it is definitely unethical to do so in a way that causes unnecessary pain.
Like we think the only ethical way in which one can kill an animal is in a way in which that animal does not feel the pain of their existence or leaving them.
That we think that this is the case because humans don't actually need to eat animals to survive, they do it because they enjoy the taste or they like think it's easier for it's like an accessibility thing and it's easier for them to hold this kind of diet but it's essentially for the pleasure of the situation.
However, we think that animals have a much higher order kind of pain here in that it literally ends their life and prevents them from being able to actualize other rights in the future, and so we think that there's actually we can't we don't think that the human pleasure can ever outweigh the pain that you cause an animal.
And moreover though we think that you especially don't right have a right to hunt to that animal down to eat it because hunting is the most in humane way of killing animals.
You can't control where your bullet hits completely, the animals oftentimes end up dying in much slower death, certain requirements of hunting often require the hunter to start training the animal before it has completely died so you are especially hurting that creature as well.
So at the point that like you're causing such a large pan in terms of killing it, you this is definitely an unethical action.
But I think to add insult to injury in the scenario, you humans often don't even end up using all of the components that they take when they kill an animal so we think that if hunting is an ethical thing to do the most ethical way to do so would be to use every part of the body such as in the way the native americans used it and because we don't even meet that minimum minimum minimum barrier we definitely should be ban that's definitely not ethical to hunt an animal.
But are second area of clash is just about why it's a lot more dangerous and why it's an unnecessary danger that we should be preventing.
So recognize that hunting always requires you to have a gun and so at minimum the effect that hunting has is that it brings guns into more guns into people's homes and it oftentimes brings guns into the homes of people who wouldn't use guns otherwise as they are uniquely and only using this gun for hunting.
And because you are keeping a firearm in your house, you are much more likely to have an accident then were you not.
Like imagine someone gets a specially inebriated and grabs the gun or you have a small child who gets a hold of it.
You it's much more likely that you'll have an occidental misfire.
The only way in which you completely avoid the danger of guns is if you don't keep them in your house and so the less guns in a house the better on side gov.
But besides just this like vague notion of putting a lot of guns in a lot of people's houses we think that it literally gives guns to children because hunting is often seen as a family tradition or family activity and so children are oftentimes starting to hunt at a very young age with their parents.
We think that it is obvious why children should not be using guns, they often don't take very good aim, it's very dangerous toy and it's much easier for a kid to make a mistake that that leads to an unfortunate accident.
For these reasons, proud to propose.