The motion for today's debate is that we should cancel the affordable care act.
Two main areas of clash, first on how it has harms to consumers.
I think the problem, in part, with the affordable care act is that it told consumers that they could keep their old insurance if they wanted but it also caused many many companies to close down and stop providing insurance, because they couldn't meet the list of requirements that was added on with with like the ACA.
It forced a lot of people to have obama care who didn't want it.
The problem with that is that it had a lot of like extra unnecessary services that a lot of people just didn't need.
Obama care is great for individuals who have a lot of like pre existing conditions and who like need maternity care etcetera but it's a really bad for individuals who don't need that stuff and don't want to be paying for it.
The problem of losing your old insurance is the second that you do so it's really difficult to get a new one that isn't obama care, in so far as a lot of your stuff is going to become a pre existing condition and everything becomes more expensive when the last insurance company trusted you and this one doesn't.
So insofar as it like forced individuals to enter into a system they don't consent into, we think that that's bad.
But also, it also put people who were just too poor to have insurance into a really harsh position.
The there was a like a fairly large fine if you didn't have obama care.
But obama care also cost more than the fine for not having it.
So individuals who were really poor and hadn't had insurance under the prior system were now forced to either pay more money than they had for insurance, for ACA, or pay still more money than they than they have, but less than ACA would cost, in order to not have insurance, but just for the fine of not having it.
This really bad it because they're like individuals who already don't have the money for this and probably shouldn't be charged for a service that they aren't going to receive.
I think the problem here is that you need to either completely subsidize those individuals who can't afford it or provide options to not have insurance at all, and I don't think a system that forces people into these circumstances and put them in even more of a disadvantage than society already has them, is one that should stand.
It also caused many employers to stop offering insurance.
They were just willing to like pay the fee that was associated and allow people to find their own.
And the problem here is that a lot of people really appreciated the employee benefits and the fact that they didn't have to pay for something the ACA.
What the ACA did is allowed employers to get away with not providing insurance and forcing individuals who previously had these benefits to have to pay for the ACA or private insurance.
It also raised pharmaceutical prices.
A major portion of the ACA was an eighty four point eight billion like extra fees levied against pharmaceutical companies under like part d of the medicare act.
Flaws, the problem with this is that often flows over into drug prices and the cost is passed on to consumers and that's really bad because a lot of the time individuals need the medications and they oftentimes can't afford what those prices rise to.
Also, there's no incentive for insurances to start covering those higher prices, and if they do that's also a cost that goes over to consumers, because corporations are only going to worry about their bottom line.
So we think that insofar as this like ultimately just ends up being more expensive for individuals that probably shouldn't have to have that, it shouldn't exist.
But our second area of clash is about why it's not socialist enough.
The affordable care act is a bandaid on the gaping wound that is american public health.
Healthcare is a right that states need to provide for.
Its facilitative to something that everyone has recognized both constitutionally and fundamentally as a right to life.
They need to repeal the ACA because a stop cock on all future healthcare legislation.
Liberals can't betray it without looking like there's political fracturing and hypocritical and losing all of their constituents.
Meanwhile, republicans just keep poking at the problems which tarnishes the image of any kind of socialist healthcare system into the long term.
We think that you need to repeal the ACA and then use the momentum of people losing their insurance to pass something even more liberal, and also unite different groups of democrats around it because they recognize that the republicans won't let something so loose pass and they've now seen that it's not something that is completely functional.
For these reasons proud to propose.