The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish electronic voting.
We mean by this is that we would essentially not allow any kind of vote that like has an impact on an official election to occur over an electronic force so whether this is voting machines, whether this is the internet, so on so forth.
I think the main thing we're trying to get across in this round is that elections are incredibly important and we can't sacrifice security for the sake of efficiency.
That is we buy that electronic voting in vast ways can improve the efficiency and accessibility of voting, but we don't think that it matters because the fact that it is so much easier to corrupt, to delegitimize entire elections in entire states under that kind of system means that we can never risk that.
This is something we have to be absolutely risk averse to and never allow.
Some things are just inefficient by nature and we have to continue to do them because they're integral to our society and we think that voting is one of those things in the same way that even though the DMV is awful we still need people to get their licenses and we still need to track those things like bureaucracy to a certain extent occurs because we need it to occur because it helps in like fundamental processes and because oftentimes without it we end up with issues of security such as what I'm talking about.
Three main areas of clash, first on hacking because I think when we say security it often means in a very literal sense.
Elections are high high risk activities in that it's something that a lot of people have vested interest in, there's a lot of money floating around, and we think that if there's the potential to hack something that has an electronic connection in a way that can never be done with paper methods and that is something that we need to ultimately avoid.
It is infinitely easy easier for us to have conversations about how hackers were able to like derail an entire election and like that's something that is much more likely to happen than for like hackers who change the votes on paper ballots like that's just something that doesn't happen.
It's infinitely easier to like screen your volunteers than to try and make a more secure internet that's something that we just can't do.
Our second area of clash is about election fraud.
We think the problem is that this is always going to be easier with electronics because it's a lot easier to say that like oh look like all the machines turned off but this was the vote when we counted it or to change manually the responses of the votes in the vote counters on electronic voting than it ever is with paper.
If only because it is just infinitely more likely infinitely more difficult for us to ever have a moment where we're like oh man I lost all these paper ballots and not be suspicious.
We think that people expect mistakes to happen with technology in a way they don't expect it to occur with something like paper ballots.
Finally though I just wanna talk generally about why electronic voting is more accident prone because I think something the're going to have to run into on their side over and over and over again is that it's a lot more difficult for us to watch over electronic voting than it is over paper voting in that like okay so you like you spill something on a bunch of paper ballots like first this is just infinitely more easy thing to avoid you keep your ballots separated but something like unplugging a machine on accident something like having a electricity shut down on the same day like all of these risks are additive in a lot of ways especially when you aggregate them across an entire country or across the entire world.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that regardless of how efficient it gets, even one election that gets hacked and someone gets put into a regime that shouldn't be there or has bad intentions like even one election where there's voter fraud like one election where all the votes are lost all these things instantly negate the entirety of electronic voting because it is so much of a higher risk.
Proud to propose.