We shouldn't fight environmental degradation.
Two main arguments: first, that it is too late anyway.
Government probably talked about how we're at an environmental tipping point and that if we don't fight environmental degradation now than we're going to have to suffer incredibly awful consequences.
The problem is that this argument depends on proving that we will actually be able to fight it effectively and we just don't think this is true at the point that in order to at all stop global warming, we have to have an intense collective effort not just on behalf of one or two countries but on behalf of the entire world.
What I mean by this is that the united states alone changing its behavior is not enough to prevent global warming and even if you added to the united states china, that wouldn't be enough to stop global warming.
You would need literally every single nation and every single corporation to take the burden of stopping environmental degradation onto themselves in order to make even a slight dent in the long term outcome and given that we can't even agree on things like the paris climate agreement, we don't think that we're going to be able to create a collective strong enough to make that turning point.
Saving the environment at this point would require a massive international collaboration that we can't obtain to a high enough intensity or in a reasonable amount of time.
At the point that we're going to have to deal with the long term consequences either way, we might as well not disadvantage ourselves and this is especially true since trying to decrease environmental degradation tends to hurt those who are poor more given that richer people can adopt change more luxuriously and continue to afford the same goods.
This is not the case for those who have less money and can no longer afford those basic goods that necessarily see increases in price when you have increase increases in the environmental protections necessary to stop environmental degradation.
So at the end of the day, we think it is government's burden to show, in order to win this kind of round, how we can actually create a difference because otherwise they're just disadvantaging people for no reason at all.
Our second argument is about these kinds of impacts, ie, how expensive stopping environmental degradation is and what that looks like in terms of the impacts it causes.
First, it destroys jobs.
Companies have to cut costs in order to adapt the protections necessary to stop environmental degradations and given that they have to pay more this bites into their profit margins and they have to decrease the number of people working for them and the benefits of those individuals.
It also lowers the overall quality of life.
To lower emissions personally you have to give up a lot of the more comfortable habits things like, heating your house to a good temperature, driving to places you could have used a to your public transport route to, using a car when you could've walked.
Like all of these things are just basic things that we like that contribute to environmental degradation that a commitment to preventing environmental degradation would require us to stop using.
Moreover, individual companies won't be able to produce the same way so the cost of goods increases and people can't afford them anymore.
It also pushes companies out of the country.
Companies will want to make as much money as possible so they will go to nations that allow them as much freedom as possible, ie, those that have less environmental protections.
Not only does this put populations within those countries at risk, but it also just means that you're not actually making an overall difference.
You're just harming the individuals in your own nation who now no longer get jobs with those companies and have to hunt for something else.
We think that the united states government can't replace the jobs that get lost and can't mandate that we will actually be effective in stopping environmental degradation and so we should just keep going as it is until like until the end.
Proud to oppose.