The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt multiculturalism.
We think this could take a few forms, such as policies in public schools that mandate further education on multiple different cultures within history classes, we think that things like states not adopting a single language as their primary language, such as the current policy in the united states, all of these are ways of adopting multiculturalism.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on decreasing xenophobia and hate.
We think the problem when you don't adopt multiculturalism, in this that you pit cultures against each other and give one culture superiority over another.
What this means is that you never actually creating a world in which cultures are evaluated as equal, even though we think they probably ought be.
We don't think that there is something that inherently makes like the british, if we might call it a culture, something that is better than the culture of native americans, other than the fact that the british just had more guns, more weapons, and smallpox.
The issue with this the issue on their side of the house though, is that when you adopt a primary culture, you send the message that even though there is nothing inherently different that would make them better, in a state sanctioned sort of way there is.
We think part of the problem with this is that a way it prevents people from being able to appreciate other cultures to their fullest extent, and also erases those cultures' accomplishments.
This is as simple as me being able to appreciate different kinds of food, different kinds of artwork that come out of cultures, because recognize that when you are continually told that these cultures are subordinate to yourself, inferior, savage, or just unnecessary because yours is the only one that matters, you're not going to reach into and try to learn about them, you're not going to appreciate the kind of gifts that they give to humanity, because you see those gifts as something that is inferior to what you can provide.
But we also think this goes to a higher level.
It's a problem that in the united states, even though it is considered a multicultural country, we still never hear about the scientific contributions of the muslim world.
We think that this is partially due to the fact that people within the united states find islam to be a inferior culture to their own.
This erases the contributions of islam and muslims scientists to like science and other forms of other forms of like social good, and prevents them from being able to contribute as themselves.
We think this also also occurs on a personal level.
We think it's a problem that a lot of the time in the united states, immigrants feel like they have to assimilate to more white culture, because they feel like that is the only thing that is accepted and the only way they can do things like get jobs, the only way they can actively engage in society.
We think that what this does is prevents people from being able to accept their own identity and self-actualize on their own terms.
If I am taught to be ashamed of my own culture, if I am taught that it is going to always be worse, that my parents' accents are signs of inferiority, then I'm never actually going to be able to accept myself and function in that society on my own.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's wrong on the part of the state to not accept multiculturalism.
We think that the state exists to be representative of the people that live under it.
We don't think that this this has an exception though, right?
Just because someone is of a different culture, doesn't mean the state has to not represent them, because in the end those people still pay taxes, still live under the social contract, still give up their rights in order to gain protections from the state.
We think that propping up one culture sends the message that this is who the state represents, which is fundamentally incohesive with what the state ought be doing.
We think that on a pragmatic sense, this is very isolating to the people who you are excluding from this conversation.
When you when the state does things like says like sends the message that they are representing one specific culture, other cultures feel like they cannot participate in the political sphere.
This leads to things like things like apathy, and future elections in which you never get a representative that actually represents the majority or everyone within that culture or community.
For these reasons, proud to propose.