The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish the american job act.
Two many areas of clash, the first on the massive increase of spending, and the impacts we think it has.
Recognize, that this jobs act incorporated the expenditure of more than thirty five billion dollars, in efforts to increase either the way that we find jobs, unemployment benefits, and numerous other things, but this money doesn't grow on trees.
It comes from somewhere.
These stipulations included increases in taxes.
The problem with this is that it angers the average citizen, and causes them not to vote for good money spending ventures later.
Once we show you that there are more harms to the american jobs act, and the way that it increases jobs, we think it's also easy to recognize that, if you're not spending money in the most efficient manner, you shouldn't waste that money and that political will.
There are real issues in this world, that are more important than short term unemployment, that this act cannot solve.
We think that issues of homelessness, issues of issues of reproductive rights, all of these things are all more important, than trying to stipulate jobs and unemployment currently.
More than this, we think it makes their lives harder.
A lot of people simply cannot afford to have more taxes than they currently pay, and it actively interferes with their way of life.
Why does it matter, if you increase the jobs of some, if you also make it incredibly difficult for others to live, regardless of the existence of a job?
The reasons that I work is in order to put make enough money to support myself, but if that money does not help me to support myself, why would I why would why do I care if I have that job in the first place?
More than this though, we think that the other impact of this money is that it cuts other social services, which is actively harmful to lives.
We don't know whether this jobs act will work, moreover we have significant reasons to see that it is not, but we know that people need things like welfare, and medicare, and the ability to access free clinics, and we know that this act will cut those.
Why would we cut something that we know is functional, in order to pursue a dream?
The answer is that we shouldn't.
We think that it makes moreover though, we think that it makes people resent the jobs act, and those who are benefited by it.
IE those who are for long term unemployed, those receiving unemployment benefits, all of these people, who are already often hated by society and stigmatized, get even more hate on their side of the house.
Things like increased attacks, decreases in helpful legislature, all of this is likely to occur when you pass the american jobs act.
Our second main area of class has to do with why it's not a good solution.
We think the way that this act operates is by creating a dependency of the market on government intervention, and a government like preparedness to create more jobs, by injecting money into like the way that we make jobs.
What this means is that these are short term jobs, that go away after the government stops injecting the same amount of money, which they just can't afford to do on a yearly basis, or after sometime.
This means that in the long term what you get is a worse recession, that that destroys more jobs in the long term, and creates more distrust in the government, when prices go up, and our resources plummet.
We think what happens on their side of the house is that, in the long term, you don't get you don't get solid bipartisan support for a good solution, because you've already wasted all of your efforts on this one.
Abolishing the american jobs act now prevents this long term recession, because it forces us to deal with our problems with unemployment, and finding a way to do so now, and not to so in an artificial manner.
So, maybe investing in new tech centers, investing in things that will actually create stable jobs, rather than pouring money into trying to extend the jobs that already exist, will be a long term solution.
More than this, we think that the jobs act extends unemployment benefits, which could actually increase unemployment in and of itself, because if I'm going to make more money by being unemployed, then I will by working a minimum wage job for forty hours a week, why would I work that minimum wage job?
For these reasons, proud to propose.