Don't increase the use of rapid transit.
I'm sure that government came up and talked all about how good public transportation is, especially compared to your regular driving, how we can decongest streets when we encourage people to use rapid transit, and all about these kind of abstract benefits that we generally believe in when we talk about something that is related to public transportation.
But I think the problem is that they forget that when you increase the use of something, it's not just about the end result benefits when the system is perfected and beautiful and working perfectly, rather it's about what the transition from small amounts of use to large amounts of use looks like, what the externalities of that are, and whether or not we're functionally able to reach that perfect end goal where everything is optimized.
And I think a large part of this debate is going to be about showing you that we are unlikely to reach that optimization level and that we can accrue the majority of the government benefits, IE, providing individuals with energy-friendly and cost-friendly alternatives, by editing the current public transport system without increasing rapid transport or rapid transit, specifically.
Two main arguments: first, it's bad for the environment.
Although the use of public rapid transit is generally environmentally friendly, when rapid transit is increased, it necessitates the building of more systems and pathways.
This is bad both because the building process is necessarily environmentally detrimental and often inconvenient.
This is because you're lifting tons of heavy machinery and labor into these areas, and you're just emitting all of these gases from these machines that are doing this heavy construction, but especially because those new routes come at the cost of the nature that was there before.
So in order to put more railway lines in or subway tunnels in, you have to destroy the surrounding greenery and animal life, and this is really harmful to the preexisting ecosystem.
It forces out all of the animal life that was there before, replaces trees with hefty technology and like heavy like construction materials, and we think that this kind of loss is actually a really big deal, first, just because we think that nature in general is something that we ought value.
It is good for the environment in that it like produces oxygen, takes away carbon dioxide, so on so forth, but also it's calming, and pretty, and allows people to feel more connected to the world rather than just to capitalism, and I think that's really important.
But also because the displaced animals have to go somewhere and they end up stuck in the populated areas of towns and cities, and this is actually really, really important because this often happens when you build in like semi-suburban or rural areas, you get these roads in the middle of where there used to be forest, and the animals don't adjust to that.
And that's when you get things like really dangerous situations of like deer on the tracks that get killed, but it's also when you just get overpopulation of vermin, in general, because these animals haven't found a new home, so they're stuck trying to get into yours.
And this is a nuisance for people, and it's also really harmful and cruel for the animals.
And a lot of them and up dying off or end up getting killed, because now you have pest control coming in due to these kinds of situations.
And we think it's just generally incredibly unethical to just cause that, in the first place, given that these animals were just existing and bothering absolutely no one before.
Our second argument is that it's expensive.
Increased use of rapid transit means that there needs to be more maintenance and work put into expansion, which requires money.
And either we don't get that money from anywhere and things just go into disrepair, and that's really dangerous and really, really inconvenient, and no one's going to use it then, or that money has to come from somewhere, so you have to raise taxes as a response.
And I think that anytime we raise taxes, especially for the purpose of public funding, you just end up with massive amounts of political backlash.
And that backlash usually crystallizes by pulling that money away from somewhere else that would be equally important or by electing more conservative candidates in the future who won't raise your taxes, which is bad for social spending in the long term.
And these taxes also take away money from people who can't necessarily afford to lose that money, which we think is bad.
Proud to oppose.