Don't fight for palestinian independence.
I think, right off the top, I think we need to be clear that we are fine with the two-state solution.
What we are not fine with, however, is the intervention on the behalf of a two-state solution or on the behalf of a palestinian state in a way that is significantly more intense than the status quo.
IE, in the status quo we have things like aid packages that go to palestine, we have UN resolutions against israel for their behavior, all of these things we are fine with.
What we are not fine with is what tim proposed, which is military aid which is active declination of israel, all the things that we think are going to lead to the impacts we're about to talk about.
First we want to make a principled about the way that these competing rights frames work.
Because what tim says basically relies on the idea that there is a clear oppressed and oppressor, and we think the problem with israel and other conflicts that are similar is that this just isn't the case.
Insofar as both of these groups have a restorative claim to the land, because as tim says the palestinians have been there for a very long time, but so have the israelites.
Like we think insofar as two groups have a claim over, then we don't think that other groups should be able to support one or the other in a way that would jet like more that would unfairly stock those odds against the other.
We think that like self-determination occurs when the groups are allowed to figure this thing out as independently as possible, which is why intervention ought be reserved for actual genocide or situations of mass violence or mass starvation, or like incredibly cruel acts when or like an incredible asymmetry of power.
It seems incredibly undemocratic, because it steps on the self-determination in a different way, right?
Like we think the problem on tim's side of the house is that even if you are helping the palestinians self-determine, it steps on the rights claim of israelis who live in that area, have established households, and were promised that land by multiple entities.
I think we need to allow an area of true self-determination.
Many palestinians just want citizenship, and many israelites just want a two-state solution.
We don't think it's fair to say " but look, they have a functioning government, so everything is perfect ".
We think that insofar as the majority of the gaza strip is ruled by hamas, which is an active terrorist organization that oppresses palestinians, we don't understand how you can say that is a state body that deserves self-actualize.
Rather we think this is a disorganized group that yes, has been oppressed in a lot of ways, but has also done a lot of violence against israel.
And so we don't think it is the the understanding of external powers to step into these kinds of conflicts just because they don't have the cultural sensitivity, they don't have the like physical understanding of what they are meddling in, and they don't know what these two different groups are valuing or how those values might align or not.
We think it's fine for other countries to support or encourage a particular solution, what we don't think is fine is the massive support like military support etcetera that would create a incredibly large asymmetry between the two.
Our second area of clash is just about why they're going to make it worse.
First, recognize that israel is really protective of land.
And we see this specifically with bibi, who has been like raising on this national rhetoric of not wanting to give up any more land and like being independent, and really has like been quite like right wing kind of candidate in a lot of ways.
We think that they're going to have an incredibly violent reaction if the entire international community suddenly turns on them.
We think that what this means is they're going to get very very scared, and this often results in a lot of groups turning and in a lot of like violence on the borders, a lot of military armament, like we think that what happens is that israel starts to push to like activate its soldiers and to start arming the borders.
We also think there's a lot of groups within israel that the government just doesn't control, so even if the government was okay with it and was like willing to interact with the international community, we think these settlers that they have often had such difficulty controlling are going to continue doing the same thing of trying to like settle palestinian land that happens in the status quo.
We also think that you empower hamas which is an actual terrorist group, and we think that that's also quite bad.
Not just this, but we think that like this just like ends up destabilizing the middle east.
Proud to oppose.