We should not get rid of gratuities.
Right off the top I think it's important to note that opposition can be pro having a minimum wage in addition to the potential for tips.
We don't think we have to defend the status quo in the united states where the reason that we have gratuities is literally just because we can pay waiters a dollar per hour.
Like clearly this is incredibly abusive and we think what we are defending is the concept of the gratuity as good or bad and so I think that a world in which we have a minimum wage of say seven dollars and then gratuities on top of that is actually incredibly positive.
Two main areas of clash, the first on allowing workers to make more money.
Recognize that the way that people think about their paycheck is very much in terms of the hourly wage they receive, so if I'm going to work fifty fifty hours that week then I'm earning say eight dollars an hour then I'm counting on that amount of money minus tax at the end of that week.
And so I think that it's actually incredibly pleasant and incredibly helpful when you have gratuities and tips that get added on to the end of that that you weren't necessarily expecting.
We think in a lot of ways that allows for some kind of upwards mobility both career wise but also just in terms of economic wise because it's likely that you have more than expected money to do things like promote your own personal growth.
So maybe you're more likely to take a class or more likely to go apply for like other better paying jobs at the same time like because you have extra money to actually be able to allow yourself to do that but we also want to think about how it actually is really helpful in terms of creating upward mobility in a career because if you start somewhere and you're at the bottom and you're earning very few tips we think that what the potential to earn more with gratuities means is that there's always a way for you to promote yourself to the next level by getting better at your job and becoming someone who is like getting more gratuities because of that.
We also just think that the existence of gratuities makes it worth it to go into necessary but not necessarily traditionally high paying professions so I think that something like bartending which isn't an educated profession, it's not very like particularly enticing or particularly dramatic and it also generally doesn't pay particularly well, but we still have people who go into it because they know the tips are really good and if you're a great bartender who pours really good drinks it's really likely that you're going to be able to live off of that and actually earn more than comparitable educated kind of jobs so like teachers and bartenders actually tend to earn about the same and oftentimes actually bartenders tend to earn a little bit more even though they never had to go to college for it.
Our second are of clash is about creating incentives for high quality services because I think we can really visualize this in the difference between european states versus america.
First right off the bat there are a lot higher prices regardless of what government says about how you're going to end up having to pay the same amount of money because you have to pay tip on top of it we think that the fact that you can maneuver around tip and some days maybe you're really strapped for cash you don't have to pay it is really helpful for people who still want to access things like going to restaurants or going to concerts or going to hotels but don't necessarily have enough to cover an addendum cost such as in european states where it is included.
We also think that european states generally have worse services.
They have longer lines, surface is slower and more importantly possibly is they have a lot fewer benefits when it comes to institutionalized services.
So in the in the states you can go to a restaurant and any restaurant is going to give you things like free water.
Hotels will do things like a daily cleaning and turn down of the bed.
In europe these things are not expected in part because you are not expected to provide a tip in exchange.
We think that the reason that people are willing to clean hotel rooms after one day of staying or that they're willing to stand on the side of the road and give water to people at the beach who are thirsty is because they know they'll be able to make something else out of it and we think that it's really good that there's an incentive to essentially be a better person.
We also just think that because the cheaper prices exists, this is good because it creates much more access for people regardless of whether or not gratuity has to be added on to it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.