We should further exploit wind turbines.
What we mean by this is that we think that as, like, the US, as a community as the government, we would prefer a world in which we used and explored more wind turbines than we do in the status quo.
Three main areas of clash: first on why it's good for the environment.
Recognize that the amount of energy that we need remains relatively consistent based on the population and the region.
So, sure, if we experience a major population spike, our demand for energy will increase.
But aside from that, our demand for energy is relatively stable, because people live predictable lives that involve the same general categories of energy use.
What this means is that what we can what changes is not how much energy we need but rather by what method we get that energy.
No one is going to argue against the fact that there are better and worse ways in which to obtain energy to power your life, IE, fossil fuels and that release greenhouse gases is something we recognize that although it provides energy, is really bad for the individual person and that person's community.
So we think that when we say, " hey, use more wind turbines, " it's always going to come at the cost of using other forms of energy, primarily fossil fuels, because that's the majority of what we use in the status quo.
Because we don't need something to provide access energy, we just need something to replace the mechanisms that exist in the status quo for producing the same amount of energy that we've needed for the last decade.
So, why are wind turbines better?
First, there isn't the same kind of greenhouse effect that you get from fossil fuels.
They're not going to make the energy the the air more difficult for you to breathe.
There won't be any smog, and there won't be any ozone layer deteriorating above your head.
Also, it is infinitely easier to obtain.
You're not sending people down into mines.
You're not infecting the groundwater using fracking, rather you're just building large wind turbines that sit calmly in the middle of a field and produce energy without actually having the same kind of byproducts that you get from the process of procuring on other forms.
We also think that oftentimes it is preferable to things like solar power and other forms because when you're up at a high enough altitude, there's always going to be consistent wind, which can't be true of something like the sun going in and out.
Our second area of clash is about unseating fossil fuels.
We've already gone a little bit into this.
This is something that is necessarily going to trade off with the use of fossil fuels in the status quo, but what it's also going to do is signal to other to gas companies and other good energy companies there's now a demand for for an alternative to fossil fuels.
In the status quo, we allow fossil fuel companies to have a monopoly.
They lobby our politicians.
They control the majority of our energy market.
And the way in which we unseat that is by showing that there exists a space for other groups to come in.
Because currently, it's really risky to be an outlier in the energy market that doesn't dabble in fossil fuels because you're not going to sell.
So, create an economic incentive.
Signal that here there's an opportunity that you can take advantage of that will promote your business as well as things that are generally healthier decision for the decisions for the rest of society.
We also think then the united states can create this technology and use the first-mover advantage to to their benefit.
So, other countries are still being relatively slow on the uptick when it comes to promoting better energy use.
So, even though like japan is pretty good at this, countries like china, countries like france and england are all still massive emitters.
We think that coming up with this technology is, first, good for jobs and things like that in the united states, but also good because if we come up with it first, we can sell it to others.
Our third area of clash is about why it's necessary.
Recognize, first and foremost, we're just running out of fossil fuels, like, it's not something that is going to continue to exist into the long, long term.
This means we have to do two things: first, replace the energy that fossil fuels provided that we're not going to have any more but second, replace the jobs that were tied up in fossil fuels that are no longer going to exist.
We think wind turbines fulfill both of those areas.
Proud to propose.