We shouldn't increase energy conservation.
Look, I'm sure that government came up and talked all about how bad global warming is and how energy conservation is one of the few ways in which we can actually counteract those impacts.
But at the end of the day, I think the problem with this argument is that it asks for individual action to fix a collective problem, IE it is not the average person's emissions that are causing global warming or causing the problems, it is the actions of large corporations that insist on producing tons and tons of emissions per day, that dump their waste into public spaces, and that give no regard to the impacts of their actions.
And the change that individual people can make is completely marginal in the face of these large corporations whose behaviors we cannot change.
At the end of the day, we think that global warming is relatively preventable, but only if energy conservation happens on a mass scale, which we don't think will occur at the point that this debate round is talking about a specific country and a specific policy.
So at the point that there are still going to be other countries that are going to be holding onto that and like producing the same kind of emissions and taking on the companies that fly away from ours, then I think it is not worth energy conservation on the whole.
A few argumentations, first on why this is very expensive.
Recognize, first and foremost, that increasing energy conservation destroys people's jobs.
Companies have to cut costs in order to adopt higher protections that bite into their profit margins, so they have to decrease the amount of people working for them and their benefits.
It also lowers the overall quality of life.
To lower emissions personally, you have to give up a lot of more comfortable habits, things like heating your house to a comfortable temperature, driving to places that you could have used a lengthier public transport route to, etcetera.
Individual companies can't produce the same way, so costs of goods increase and people can't afford them anymore.
You also end up pushing corporations out of your country entirely.
Companies will just go to countries that have less protections, which brings me to my second argument which is that you're making situation worse for the most vulnerable.
The people who are most affected by having to conserve more are those who don't have the resources or cannot afford to conserve more.
IE, if I am someone who already is like fairly using a small amount of energy and like maybe I work for a company as a blue collar laborer, that company produces a lot of emissions and has to fire me as a result, then I'm someone who didn't really contribute to the problem personally, but I'm being the one punished for it.
And we think this is actually really problematic, because unless the government figures out an alternative as to how they're going to keep providing for the people to their who lose their jobs, then we think it's better not to do anything at all, given that there's just going to be such a high cost to society as a whole.
We can also work to eliminate to eliminate like some emissions, right?
We can do things like stay within the the paris agreements and things like that, but we think that it's not fair to ask people to energy conserve when the their actions are likely to be incredibly marginal and when there is no control over these larger corporations or these other countries.
Proud to oppose.