The motion for today's debate is that we should ban big governments.
Our model for this is that would provide more state rights with less federal regulations of things directly enumerated in the constitution or like things sorry not directly enumerated in the constitution as rights of the government.
This would include things like education, traffic laws, etcetera.
We also think that we'd put a like a neccessary economic cap on government agencies in order to prevent them from getting too bloated and becoming too large as a whole which we think is quite important.
So two main areas of clash, first on why these kinds of big governments are inherently unrepresentative.
This is really valuable in a democratic society which depends on the like on the institutions that represent individuals to actually represent their preferences and desires.
The problem is that the interest of the amalgamation oftentimes gets distorted so that it rarely represents the interests of the individual.
When you split these interests into states rather than like one big federal government it is far more likely to get representative nuance especially in terms of regional representation.
Recognize that new york has a really different priority than iowa but still would overpower them on a federal level because of population amount.
We see this all like this is all often the discussion regarding the electoral college what we recognize that like the majoritarian rule of large cities would be really bad for like smaller more rural areas because even though they have less people they still have pertinent and important issues that like ought be discussed and ought be overlooked.
The problem is that the state government in iowa like would be better at representing their like people ie it would focus on farmers, it would focus on subsidizing specific food groups while had this like not occurred we think that oftentimes cities with more people would really prevent money from ever going to these individuals.
I also think it's important to note that federal agencies are necessarily always oppressive in that they take control over individuals' lives in ways that like are probably not allowed and oftentimes overstepping the boundaries.
I think like a perfect example of this would be when the government went ahead and changed all of the speed limits in the nation at risk of states losing their funding for their roads which is like an incredibly coercive action just because they wanted to save fuel during the great depression but regardless of whether or not fuel efficiency is important sticking to those principles is incredibly important because even now almost a hundred years later we are still living under that legacy and states still don't get to control their own speed limits.
Federal agencies also do things like raise taxes without individuals consent which is a form of like theft of individual property.
The second area of clash is about why this is incredibly unconstitutional.
Recognize the constitution stipulates as many rights to states as possible.
The tenth amendment literally says that all of the rights that aren't directly stated within the constitution are left up to the states and up to state control.
Moreover, we think that limiting the size of the government is the only way to prevent rights violations.
Large governments are just a lot more prone to violate privacy rights I think a really good example of this would be NASA like the NSA spying on our like private interactions and our on our private internet dealings which is like only made possible by the fact that we have a large government bloated monetarily and so I think that like when you remove the funds that facilitate a large government, you also remove the funds that facilitate oppression of individuals which is really bad.
For those reasons proud to propose.