Three main areas of clash as to why school vouchers ought not be introduced.
First is that it leaves public schools to rot.
Vouchers don't remove all barriers to accessing a school.
You still have to be able to transport your child there, you have to afford specific supplies or uniforms and you have to have someone who's going to apply on your behalf in the first place.
This means that if your parent is an addict, incredibly busy or inattentive you're unlikely to get the opportunity to be eligible for a school voucher in the first place.
This means that upper class and upper middle class kids will flood the best charger charter schools of an area and take all of their resources with them, while kids who are in poverty or have the types of parents I listed above are much more likely to get stuck with with the with the local public schools.
The problem with this is that now these private schools get both public, because they're eligible due to the number of children who are coming due to vouchers, and private funding as well as grants from these parents, while the public schools are left with nothing because they can't charge a fee for you to be there and you don't get the same kind of you don't get as much public funding given that it's being diverted to other schools, and you no longer get the same kind of donations coming in from richer parents who happen to be in your area.
This screws these kids by creating larger class sizes, decreasing the quality of teachers, and generally giving them less prospects in the future.
The problem with this is that there's nothing that makes these people intrinsically less deserving of the best opportunities as anyone else.
Like, they first they cannot control the actions of their parents but second they did not choose to be born into the situations and thus probably should not have to face the consequences of what their parents did.
Second area of clash is that it takes away school autonomy.
There's a general trend: a school in a given region is more liberal than the area that surrounds it.
They get away with it because when you are one of two options, parents don't have a choice, even if they disagree with your politics, but to send their children to you anyway.
However if schools are fighting for students for students to come to them and funding to come to them, they'll be unwilling to do more liberal things.
For example they're much more likely to teach abstinence only education in incredibly conservative areas, or on the opposite side of the spectrum much more likely to teach radical cultural relativism in more liberal areas.
Both of these are probably things that schools ought not advocate for.
But, if you're going to have a situation in which you need to please the parents in order to maintain funding you don't have a choice.
This leads first to political homogeneity across regional schools.
You no longer have a situation in which children are being taught a diversity of subjects, but second this comes down to an individual level where parents can lobby the school to change their requirements or else they're going to take their business and their children elsewhere.
So: " don't make my child take gym or else I'm going to take me in the six other PTA moms to the other school next door, with my voucher. "
Third area of clash is that it forces early specialization which is bad for kids.
In the end, parents don't know what future their kids want.
They only know what they want their kids to become.
We see this already when parents who have a choice often send their children to stem schools regardless of whether that child, who honestly is too young to know either, prefers to learn science full time or not.
This leads, first, to less well rounded kids.
But second it leads often times to the trapping of children, who don't necessarily want to become engineers but their parents want them to, to end up in these kinds of engineering focused schools, and puts them on the same track to college and makes it incredibly difficult for them to break out of them.
We prefer a world in which children get a more well rounded education so as to better choose what they prefer to do in the long term.
For these reasons proud to oppose.