The motion for today's debate is that we should make community service mandatory.
We, we mean the united states or any western liberal democracy really, and the way we would make it mandatory is that every single person above the age of like, let's say, twelve, would have to partake in a certain number of hours per month.
We don't really care how many, we'd say like probably like four, on average, is like a good amount to require an individual to devote in terms of their time and meets like the criteria for this debate.
With that, two main areas of clash: the first on value systems.
Recognize that like mandating something like community service necessarily builds community engagement and patriotism.
People rally around the things that they contribute to and feel pride in.
It's really hard to feel pride in shitty bureaucracy, and ugly parks, and ugly roads that haven't been cleaned, or like like beer cans underneath the bleachers, things like that.
Like these are things that are naturally not something that people enjoy looking at and are often signs of the ways in which our society is falling falling apart at the edges, which is never something that individuals want to acknowledge.
I think but it's really easy to feel pride in everyone and yourself when you are contributing to the system and making it look good.
When you can say that the reason that that highway looks nice today is because I helped make it do so, we think that's when people like start to actually feel good about their societies and feel good about contributing.
But we also think that it creates a good community cohesion, right?
Like it brings people together regularly and builds relationships between them.
We think that like it's natural the more I see someone, the more likely I am to have a functional relationship with them, because it gives me time to get close to them.
And if it's someone who I initially had a bad impression of, getting more exposure is oftentimes what is needed in order to change that impression.
So we think it's really good that now individual communities have a space in which individuals have to interact with each other at the hopes of finding connections.
Like we think we live in a more and more lonesome world as technology increases and the distance between our houses increases, and so we think it's really good when there's a reason for communities to come together.
But also, I think it's just like a good value to have people in your community that are used to doing good, right?
Like recognize that there's a problem right now where people see community service as this like extra tidbit that they might do if they feel like it, and they ought be praised if they do it.
The problem here is that we think that it's good to propagate an idea that it is communal activity to build a society and that just because you are helping someone does not make you a god among men.
So we think that normalizing community service within society means that individuals are actually going to make this a priority first, but also that they're going to feel less resentment towards others having known that they are just as contributing and less full of themselves and entitled when they actually help, because it begins to be built into your schedule on a normal level and normalized into our lives.
Our second area of clash is about bettering society.
Recognize that there's a lot of stuff that needs housekeeping and work that bureaucracy can't or doesn't have the resources to reach.
Like, it's impossible for them to clean all the house highway sites efficiently or frequently enough for it to make a difference, but also no one wants to have that job on a regular basis.
So it oftentimes gets left off for delinquents anyway, who really don't want to be there and don't have an incentive to do a good job.
So, requiring community service allows us to fill in those gaps the government has no ability to do so.
You make society better at almost no cost to the individual.
Given that everyone is doing it, we especially think it's at no cost because it means that society will adjust to the mandatory time.
Like we think a really bad problem right now, when it's not mandatory, is that it's really difficult for adults to find a time in their schedule for which they're not working and not like having plans, they can go and do community service.
But we think that if you have an allotted number of slots per month that during which you can do them, your work doesn't have a choice but to let you off.
It's kind of like jury duty.
Once it's legally mandated, they can't persecute you for going through with it.
We also think that it just makes a really big difference in terms of long-term function.
Like a lot of government agencies run poorly because there's just not enough manpower to do all the like fundamental work, like organizing files, and we think that when you spend the evening doing this, you contribute to the overall efficiency of society.
For these reasons, proud to propose.