The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon social media.
What we mean is that, it would be a better preferable world, if people didn't use social media to the extent that they do today.
To main areas of clash, the first we think the isolation of people from each other, and from society at large, is massively caused by social media, and is also massively problematic.
We think that social media and the use thereof often leads first to the loss of communication, but second to an inability to communicate.
We think that rather than learning to interact with people, you hide behind your screens and behind your messages, but more so, that social media provides you with this false solvency, and this idea that you don't have to interact with people.
Why should I go and meet up with my friends, when I can read about their lives on facebook?
Why should I crave social interaction, when I can fill my mind, and my day, with a fake social interaction by looking online?
But we also think that, what this does is leads to difficulty in communication itself.
People have more difficulty approaching each other personally with conflicts, when they can ponder every word, and type it out through messenger.
But more than this, miscommunications are much more likely as well.
I can't add inflection, tone, sarcasm, or my facial expressions, to a message, and oftentimes emojis just aren't enough.
This leads to those hours that people spend agonizing over, whether he meant that seriously, sarcastically, whether that period is because he's angry, or whether he just chose to put a period.
We think, what this does is essentially distances people from each other, raises the anxiety associated with social interaction, and then prevents you from ever actually reaching it.
But also, we think the political echo chambers, and political polarization caused by social media, is also very problematic.
We think that, a lot of people get their news from things like facebook, twitter, tumblr, subscribing to different channels, reading the articles that your friends share.
The problem with this is a combination of tracking and targeted ads and articles, and then also who your friends are.
We think at the point that facebook can just isolate me as a generally liberal, feminist college student, they're only going to be showing me articles that I am attracted to, based on those characteristics.
But then, take it a step further, most of my friends are also liberal feminist college students, who are going to have very similar opinions to myself.
This means, I very rarely have any sort of exposure to the alternate point of view.
This is problematic on a face value level, because it's good to have interaction with other arguments, other opinions, and knowing what those opinions are, but also problematic, because you get the general feeling that everyone in the world thinks the same way as you do, because that's all you see on your newsfeed.
It's the only exposure you're getting.
Secondly to this though, we think this also spreads misinformation.
At the point that fake news is becoming an actual epidemic, the use of social media to get your news, the reading of facebook statuses to learn about the recent political climate, or how your friends are voting, is a problem, because it means you never actually getting an objective news source on what is actually going on.
This trade off, between social media and actual news, is dangerous and we think abandoning social media pushes people more towards true news sources.
Our second area of clash is about how people live through social media.
We think that at this point in time, people structure their lives around snapchat posts, and one upping everyone else around them.
Because, if they' that person looks like they're having more fun than you on social media, you have to show that you are up to par.
We think what this leads to is an expectation to constantly have a happy and exciting life, which leaves no room for things like mental health issues, or anxiety, or anything that typical people experience, but never see their peers experiencing anymore, because it's not acceptable to show that side of you on social media.
We think that this is really problematic, insofar as real people do have problems, more than this though, we think that people often begin to value the media standing above deep relationships, and it forces the creation of multiple fake personas, rather than actually creating strong relationships with individual people, because you're collecting the likes on facebook.
For these reasons, proud to propose.