Don't privatize ports.
Three mean arguments, first on not fixing what's not broken.
The current port system is one of the biggest and one of the safest.
Moreover, it's been tried for many decades at this point like we know that having publicized nationalized ports as something that is functional and we think that the monster that we know is better than the one that we don't.
This also places a really high burden on side government because they have to show something so inherently bad about the current system that it's worth abandoning, and we don't think that sam has explained why these ports run so badly or are mismanaged.
He just continually asserts that this is something that occurs but we haven't had any public complaints or issues of displeasure.
The government is doing fine especially since poor management is usually outsourced to private actors anyway.
So it's really just a question of whether we think true privatization is good or if we think the government should have some control over the conditions and the scheduling and oversight within those ports.
Creating an entire system is also always going to be expensive.
It requires a complete overhaul of the people who are working there, the systems already in place, and it often takes some of the technology and some of the time to get there.
And like even if this gets taken up by private corporation, it still means that current employees are going to get fired or experience instability in their jobs which we think is really damaging to them and those costs often get transferred to consumers.
The prices for ships will go up which is analogous to the privatization of airports when we saw that ticket prices were increased.
Like when you when you go through the process of privatizing something that was previously running smoothly, transition costs get transferred to the consumers which we think gets really bad because when it comes to things like ports in the same way that it has with airplanes these are oftentimes systems that people have become to rely on because they're so consistent and have been maintained for so long by a government entity.
But when you allow private corporations to do it, that kind of predictability goes away.
There's more risk entrenched and people feel less secure using those systems at those point which we think is bad.
We also just think that it's often hard to maintain security.
Like ports and airports also share the situation in which they oftentimes protect our borders.
Like you get a lot of international stuff coming through that oftentimes has to get checked out in order to make sure that it's safe and you don't have some threats entering the country.
And we think that that's something the government ought be directly handling because the government is the one that has the most experience with that type of stuff and it kind of has the most has the most incentive and accountability to make sure that it's being handled properly.
We also just think that comes with other risks, like there's always some unexpected bumps in the road when you're transferring systems, and we think that with something so time sensitive and like necessary as ports that's just not a situation that we can afford.
Our second argument about protecting workers.
Corporations notoriously abuse their workers as much as possible in order to pull a profit.
And in other countries we see this specifically impacting ports most because ships will take people on for months and take away their visas which is infinitely harder to control and prosecute when the government isn't directly involved in the management and operation of the locations where this is originating.
Moreover we think that the government can ensure proper benefits for the people who man their ports.
Like government jobs are considered cushy for a reason.
Even when they don't pay a lot, they oftentimes have fairly good retirement plans and good health care benefits and we think that that's something that is good for the people who get those jobs and not something that can be guaranteed when you allow private corporations to own them.
Our third argument is about preventing the monopolization of waterways.
We've think that corporate takeover is a really real fear on side government.
Like once corporation can just take hold of the port and then mess with international corporations.
Ports are an international issue.
There's a lot of really sensitive stuff that comes in and out and we think you can't entrust that to private corporations that often have competing incentives and are literally competing with other private corporations that will be shipping their goods in through that port.
Like corporate espionage we think is something that is really likely to happen on side government.
Proud to oppose.