We should abolish homework.
I think the model for this is that it is not the case that teachers can't assign material to work on outside of class, but what we would rather have middle schools and high schools do is keep students after school for a couple of hours that is set aside to do homework, rather than sending them home with it.
So we're still fine with like practice problems etcetera, we just don't want it going home with students.
Two main areas of clash.
First about the dangers of stress.
We think that there is a lot of medical studies right now coming out that show that stress is actually incredibly pernicious.
So we're seeing that like it elevates your risk for a lot of future health conditions from everything from like cancer, to schizophrenia, to heart disease, to insomnia, and we think the problem with this is that you're forcing very young children to undergo large amounts of this which puts them more at risk.
But more than this, the it like also has pragmatic impacts like in the current situation.
So like we see that people with higher measured stress levels are often more prone to mental illnesses such as anxiety or issues with self-esteem, you have more physical symptoms of fatigue.
Like we really think that this is something that can be really dangerous for people, and the danger is kind of amplified by the fact that it is completely unnecessary.
Like recognize that the increase in homework load is wildly a recent development, through the late nineteen nineties children received really small workloads to take home after work.
This is why we often get the stories about how parents can't help their kids with homework anymore, because schools are just moving at a much higher pace.
And while we think that it's probably fine for schools to be more advanced, we think that insofar as entire generations were able to go without copious amounts of homeworks assigned, had no issues with their transition to university life, and like came out fairly healthy, we don't understand why this is something that is necessary in the status quo either, especially since it is seen that children actually don't learn more from homework either, and it doesn't actually improve performance on tests.
Like practice does, but the practice of giving homework does not.
So we think that insofar as this is like a very large problem that has recently developed in terms of chronic stress for middle and high school students specifically, we think this is something that we should work to alleviate, that the government should work to alleviate, and that school should try and prevent.
Our second area of clash is about allowing children to be children.
Because we think that an argument that op is going to bring up is going to be about how well children aren't going to be prepared for the real world.
We think this is just isn't factually accurate, right?
Like people are able to adapt to complicated situations, the question is just how much stress and how much unhappiness are we going to put them under now.
We think that burnout is actually really real thing.
IE, I worked so hard in high school and put so much effort into everything that I just don't have the energy in college to continue that process.
Insofar as the real world is going to hit children either way, we think that it is really necessary to give them space and give them time to explore the world creatively.
Like part of the reason america has such high obesity rates is because children aren't playing outside as often.
And honestly, if I'm stuck inside doing homework all day, it's much less likely that I'm going to go out and like exercise or play with my friends, because I simply don't have the time.
So we think that this provides individuals with a model by which they can create a healthier work-life balance, and a healthier like life exercise kind of balance as well.
Like the problem on their side of the house is that all you're doing is putting millions of minors under unnecessary stress, forcing them to trade off with other parts of their life, and preventing them from being able to experience childhood in the way that we traditionally think childhood innocence deserves to be experienced.
Proud to propose.