So throughout his gov speech sam seems incredibly worried about this idea that children are going to be used for profit either by for profit agencies or by for profit parents.
So the issue is that of course some of these agencies are very problematic and run for profit operations.
But most most potential parents, especially in western countries, do their research about this.
And we also think that what this is is an argument for more regulations not for banning the practice in itself.
We think that maybe an amendment to the law, such as ban international adoption from non registered or licensed adoption agencies, might entirely solve this problem.
Just saying.
With this two many areas of clash, first on why international adoption promotes globalism and cultural understanding.
When someone adopts from another country they usually want them to maintain ties to that culture insofar as often times these are parents who genuinely care about the kids that they're adopting and often times they like have heard the research as to how children should be able to maintain ties to their original culture and why that's beneficial to them.
This means that tons of research goes into that child's culture and goes into promoting a strong relationship with that culture.
But the external effects of this kind of research is actually incredibly important because not only are these two people getting a lot of exposure to a culture that otherwise they wouldn't have but this also overlaps into that child's education and other like school system and other environments which promotes understanding well outside just this one family.
It also makes those cultures seem more approachable.
A lot of racism and racially motivated violence occurs due to a lack of exposure and irrational fears.
We think that when you have more exposure to people of different cultures, such as through international adoption, you decrease this kind irrational fear because you can put a person to that culture and you can empathize with that individual.
So we think on net the kind of exposures created by international adoption are incredibly positive for society.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it makes people's lives better.
Sam likes to pretend that all of these children are stolen from loving homes and would have had great lives otherwise.
But the fact of the matter is that most of them aren't stolen and they aren't products of pressure.
Rather they are genuinely children who weren't wanted by their parents.
Like one of the largest international adoption occurs from from the US occurs from china where tons and tons of little girls are abandoned due to the one child policy.
These children otherwise would have had incredibly problematic lives where they wouldn't have had access to education or good opportunities that could have allowed them to have upward mobility.
More than this, the orphan care systems in these countries tend to be incredibly over burdened.
They're much more likely to have abusive conditions, awful caretakers like and basically the comparative is always going to be preferable when they are adopted into a loving home because in the very least they're going to have access to enough to eat, they're going to have people whose job it is to watch them, and contrary to what sam tells you, the kinds of homes they go into often get extensively screened both by both by governmental agencies within the united states or within western countries but also by the adoption agencies themselves because it's important to maintain a good image otherwise no one will adopt your children.
We also think it's good when these kids get adopted because it unloads that system and you end up with net more resources for other kids.
So you're going to be able to get more opportunities in the long term when you have more adoption.
For these reasons proud to oppose.