Don't ban foreign workers.
Three main arguments, first on the benefit for the economy.
Right off the bat I want to deal with james' argument about wage depression.
We think that this is only an issue when the country didn't have good wage laws in the first place, which the majority of WLD's do because foreign workers are still governed by the law of the country they're in as long as they are there legally.
So any kind of work protections whether it is a minimum wage, whether it is like the benefits that have to be offered, any kind of like union protections, all of those things still apply to foreign workers that are in the state legally.
So if workers are depressing wages, this is just a reason people will be politically active to get a higher wage in that area because it shows not that those foreign workers are problematic but rather that the laws that are currently in place aren't over arching enough to protect the people who need protecting.
Moreover we think the problem with james is that he makes this issue worse when you ban foreign workers even if our side of the house doesn't necessarily make it better, right?
Because what happens on his side of the house is that foreign workers are still going to be coming in.
They're just going to be coming in illegally the majority of the time, especially for lower level labor jobs where you can jump the border between mexico and the united states.
And what this leads to is that people don't have to report those people legally at all, they don't have to ascribe to any kind of laws or protections for them.
So you're actually going to get a lot more wage depression on their side of the house because you're going to have more illegal workers who aren't governed by minimum wages and who are actually desperate so are much more likely to be willing to settle for significantly less than what would be the regular market wage.
Moreover recognize that foreign workers just fill in for jobs that don't otherwise get filled.
It is a misconception that foreign workers are taking jobs because we see that the jobs they are taking are the ones that americans often don't want anyone anyway.
And we saw this when fields in the south laid fallow when immigration crackdowns happened in the united states because there was no one to work them.
And when these jobs don't get filled that rebounds onto the american economy as a whole because it decreases general production of the economy.
For example the fact of those fields didn't produce any food means it didn't get to go to market means people didn't buy it.
Like so on so forth and all of those little tendrils that it also impacts like the jobs that it created and the individuals who all of those people are also affected.
Also just recognize that foreign workers are often likely to work a lot harder.
They often need to send money back home and they want to know they're doing a good job want to demonstrate their work ethic.
We think that americans are pretty spoiled and you get less productive output a lot of the time.
So if anything competing with foreign workers is likely to make americans more likely to try and do better so that they are competition for the indian engineer and so on so far.
We also think it's good that it provides companies with more options for who they want to hire.
It means that jobs can be more competitive and hirers know they're getting the best workers at the end of the day.
Our second argument is about social benefits.
I want to address james' argument about brain drain first because recognize first and foremost that the characterization he gives is just wrong.
It is not the case that the majority of these areas are hungering for the types of people who are leaving as foreign workers, right?
Like a lot of the time people will leave the areas they are in because they cannot find a job.
And also a lot of these people send remittances back which we actually think is more useful than the engineer staying in that area since there simply isn't a sector for them to work in yet, but the money they send back can be used to develop those sectors.
I also think that james just avoids the reality of how these often works, right?
Like it's not the higher educated engineers that make up the majority of foreign workers.
It's oftentimes people who are less educated like we have a lot of foreign workers who come in from mexico and for manual labor as well as a lot of like east asian countries like similar idea.
We also just think that contact theory is actually really important here.
The idea that people are going to be interacting with these different types of workers and having having positive interactions that build better self images of the world.
For all those reasons proud to oppose.