The motion for today's debate is that we should end the blockade on the gaza strip.
We mean by this is that currently israel has a permanent blockade in which they do not send any kind of aid across the border into gaza.
We think that this should be immediately lifted and that aid should start to be sent.
Three main areas of clash: the first on why it is unjust.
Recognize that sanctions are always internalized by those who are the poorest in that society those who are like automatically the most law-abiding citizens.
Why is this the case?
First, recognize that terrorists are always going to be able to get their resources elsewhere insofar as they're usually internationally connected and tend to have the ability to like traverse borders in ways that are illegal, that like that other citizens do not have access to.
But even if you don't buy that, we think that terrorists are often the most likely in most capable of robbing other citizens of their goods.
Insofar as terrorists have a vested interest in keeping each other and themselves fed and cared for, they will often go to the end of taking those resources from those who are most law-abiding in order to support themselves.
What this means is that sanctions are inherently undemocratic.
Insofar as those of, what those who are like least responsible for the situation are the ones who are most harmed.
Like, recognize that the majority of the gaza strip disagrees with hamas and is not a part of that organization.
The fact that they ought to suffer for hamas's sins is both unjust and incredibly detrimental to their personal health.
We think at the point that that's true then you ought not allow, that it is unacceptable to punish everyone for the actions of a few, especially in such an egregious way.
We think at the point that this kind of policy deprives the gaza people of resources, those who are already starving and deprived and torn apart by terrorism and war, then it ought not be added on top of that that they are deprived aid and necessary goods for their survival.
Our second area of clash is about why doing having this blockade actually encourages terrorism.
First, recognize that the existence of such a blockade allows hamas to play victim whenever they are asked by international authorities about the situation.
Right?
They get to say: " look, israel is the one that is forcing this to happen.
They're the ones that aren't allowing resources to cross our borders.
We're just trying to govern our own cities but somehow we're not going to be allowed to do so ".
This both signals to the outside world that hamas is a victim, but more importantly, shows people living under hamas that that israel is the one who is actually causing harms.
We think that this is really problematic insofar as when you see israel as the inherent oppressor you are infinitely more likely to side with the terrorists that promise that they are going to fight against them.
It also allows hamas to be the only one providing resources.
We think that when israel says: " hey, even though I am the state that technically possesses you, I will not provide you with life needing, or like life giving resources. "
But hamas says: " hey, look, they call us terrorists but we're the only ones giving you food or any kind of like provisions ", then hamas necessarily gets a leg up politically in terms of the view that citizens have of them.
We think the only way in which israel abolishes hamas is when they turn off the individuals that would become the constituents of hamas.
But when they are constantly creating those like support for hamas through in through the blockade, there is never any hope of destroying the terrorist organization at its core.
We think when every average individual within the gaza strip is beginning to build a hatred for israel because of the atrocities they feel have been committed against them, that's when you get massive amounts of terrorist recruitment, and that's when these people turn against israel forever.
But our third independent argument is about how it angers the international community.
We think that israel succeeds the most when it is seen as this like underdog being like oppressed by other communities, like can't like, the terrorists are after it, etcetera etcetera.
We think the moment that israel takes the side of the oppressor, or becomes the oppressor, that is when the international community starts to side with palestinians, starts to ask israel to give away land and start to like stop supporting them economically, and we think that's really bad.
So insofar as ending the blockade allows israel to reclaim the spot as as victim and thus garner more support, we think israel should end the blockade on the gaza strip.