All of denny's advocacy focuses on the idea that somehow, if we start now and fight hard enough, we can prevent the impacts of global warming and save the earth.
The issue with this is that it's a complete misunderstanding of scientific fact.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why it's already too late and we we ought put those resources elsewhere, and the second on quality of life and why we think it necessarily outweighs the longevity of life.
So, first on why it's too late.
We tell you that scientists have already said that we cannot stop global warming only stave it off.
What this means is no matter what kind of changes we institute right now, all we're doing is buying ourselves time and the world will still fall prey to global warming in the long term.
We tell you it is preferable to focus on a long term solution rather than wasting your time funneling resources and making people's lives harder any short term solution.
We think that these resources always come at a trade off.
There you always have to make choices between where you put your money and we tell you that if you're putting your money into fighting off global warming, all of your political will into fighting off global warming, you're not looking at the alternatives because you're putting all of your eggs into the basket that says the earth will still be here within the next millennia.
We think that these resources ought be used elsewhere.
Specifically, we think that massive amounts of resources are currently going into looking and many scientists have said that what will be the future of mankind space travel and living on different planets.
But when people still have hope for this one, when we're still forcing people to follow global warming regulations and advocating to save the earth, it means that less money, less resources and less political will is looking into alternatives such as space travel that can actually provide us with a long term solution to the problem.
We think the only way that you truly get any sort of solvency is by allowing people to understand that it's already too late and funneling those resources into something like space travel.
Our secondary of clash has to do on quality of life.
Because yes, the impacts that denny describes are correct.
Sea levels are rising, coastal cities are feeling the effects.
But these are incredibly slow changes that we're watching happen year by year, inch by inch.
What this means is that humans can adopt over time.
Already we see that a lot of coastal cities are either moving their towns up the coast or building platforms that allow them to live above the rising sea levels.
We think that adaptation is possible and preferable to having to make significant changes to your personal life.
Insofar as these things are incredibly hard to regulate, incredibly hard to instill, an incredibly hard to instill equally as well, we think there are always people who are going to want to get away from it.
More than this though, we think that short term quality of life outweighs the longevity of how many generations can live here.
Because in the end it is not the obligation, regardless of what denny says, of my generation and me to worry about the generations after.
Not only did we not start global warming, if we wanted to place blame it probably goes on those who lived around the nineteen hundreds when we were first becoming the large industrialized cities as we are now, but also because we don't know these people.
In the same way that you can't tell me that I have an obligation to someone I don't know exists in some other country, you also cannot tell me that I have obligations for people who don't even exist yet, who will live in the future.
We think rather if there is any obligation is to maximize your own personal well being now.
Insofar as you were the only person whose health and like well being you can actually know fully and do the most for.
We think in so far as you are responsible for your own happiness, you ought maximize it while you are alive, because after you are dead you know longer feel those impacts and you don't own anything to people who you don't even know exist yet.
For these reasons proud to oppose.