Don't fight urbanization.
Three main arguments, first on why it is environmentally good.
We think that, generally, having centers of people is better for the environment than sprawled out, more rural environments.
This is because you can do things like increase the use of public transport, which decreases the amount of emissions that come from individual cars.
So when you're in a rural area and every single person owns a car, this is always going to be worse for the environment than when you're in a city and the majority of individuals are driving by public transport, so you just don't get nearly as many emissions.
You also can use space much more efficiently.
In a rural area, you might have six different companies or six different businesses, and each of them will have a different building with its own gas, heating, insulation, like all of those amenities, lighting, but when you're in a city, you can fit the same amount of businesses into maybe one building that might be a little bit bigger but not significantly, and then what happens is that you just get significantly less waste, because you're not getting waste from every single one of the buildings you have in those rural areas, rather you're just having a small amount of access energy being used in this one building that has all these in it.
Cities also tend to be more liberal politically, so you have individuals who are willing to do things like recycle or live sustainably, and we think that oftentimes, these are the kinds of things that rub off on to others, right?
So like rural areas which tend to be more conservative also really struggle with establishing recycling trends because individual businesses usually don't see it as something that is important, but also because individual people don't want to inconvenience themselves.
But in a city, all it takes is a few businesses to put out sustainable business models, and then suddenly you have this kind of domino effect in which everybody is doing it as well.
So we just think the probability that people are going to care about the environment happens a lot much more when urbanization occurs.
Our second argument is that it is socially good.
Danny says that cities aren't hygienic, and maybe this was true a century and a half ago, but now we have things like real sewer systems, better sanitation in general, cleanliness, and most importantly, a really high understanding of how important hygiene and cleanliness is to general public health.
So where in the past, people just didn't care about washing their hands or doing really basic things, those are things that are really pervasive in society now.
I think every single bathroom you walk into will have a " employees must wash hands " sign, and this has significantly cut down on the amount of disease that we see.
We still have to figure out the pollution thing, but we think that we have more people who are going to have the political will to do things like fight for regulation that will stop pollution just because there's more people who are experiencing its effects directly.
We also just think that people living close together means you get more socialization and more social networks, things like having different community service projects and different clubs.
Maybe you have a book club, like maybe you have a wine and cheese club, maybe people get together to like discuss different journal articles, all of these things happen because you get large amounts of individuals from diverse backgrounds who want to spend time with others.
And in rural areas, there are just less people and less things to do, so these don't crop up the same way.
You get a better social scene in the city, and you also get more diverse culture and food, since cities often attract individuals from different like cultural and social backgrounds.
So we just think you get more contact between different types of people in the city as well, which is good, because not only then do you decrease things like islamophobia or racism, because people are just seeing each other much more, but also you just get people who are more social and more happy.
Our third argument is that it is economically productive.
Danny says that things in the city are too expensive, and this might be true, but first we think this is why a lot of the time people will live in the suburbs and commute into the city.
But second, we think that cities can afford to be more expensive because the average salary is significantly higher.
So, sure, there will still be things like affordable housing projects for people who are low income, and we're still going to be fighting to make sure that we can eliminate food deserts, but at the end of the day, cities can afford to be more expensive because the people living in them can afford to live more expensively.
Danny says it himself: this is where the jobs are.
Urbanization allows us to have mass amounts of innovation and mass amounts of collaboration in small areas.
Proud to oppose.