We should ban home births.
I think again we're talking specifically within the united states.
By home births we don't mean like someone didn't know that they were about to like go into labor and accidentally had a kid at home rather we mean like the planned event of having a home birth the midwife etcetera.
Like we think it's fine that if someone gets stuck in like a surprise circumstance where they're suddenly having a baby and they don't have time to get a to a hospital, then we think this is okay.
We're just talking about like we don't think that as like we we we should generally expect individuals to go to a hospital.
The government should punish those that are found to have planned out a home birth.
Two main areas of clash, first on validating government paternalism.
Recognize that there are two worlds in which we allow the government to ban things and both of these like either of these things is sufficient to allow for a ban insofar as these are like the two standards that you can meet individually in the status quo.
First we think and we think that like home births justifies at least one probably justifies to both.
So first we think that there has to be pertinent government interest and we think that this is actually like somewhere where home birth being banned is really important because insofar as governments spend a lot of time funding the hospitals that perform the majority of births they have like a focused interest in those hospitals being used properly, efficiently, that money being used efficiently and once swathes of the population are participating in an unsafe practice that can be prevented then we think that this is something the government has an interest in protecting and preventing.
We also think that childbirth is something that is especially dangerous.
Recognize that it's still the leading cause of death in many developing countries for women not to mention like if we go even a century back this is something that like killed copious and copious women copious amounts of women.
So we think that this is like in itself something that has been demonstrated as a threat to the general population then given that the government has to protect its citizens one of the ways it does so is in preventing home births from happening because that's the way in which women died right like that they'd like because there weren't hospitals available they would have children at their house and they would suffer from things like internal bleeding that that like midwives have no ability to handle even in the status quo.
The second way though in which the government gets justified to ban things is when there's a spillover effect.
So even if we buy that a person can make decisions that are personally harmful to themselves we think that this stops being justified when they have when they are like doing something that harms others like there's no right to harm another person.
This is why we do things like ban drugs like hard drugs that like harm other individuals even recognize that like cigarette smoking is fine to harm yourself so we think that like the problem is that even if the mom can like do things that are bad for her we think that the unborn child shouldn't suffer because their parents are hippies who are making poor decisions and we think that insofar that child is a lot more vulnerable than the woman in this case we know that that child's rights are also going to matter more like the woman's already decided to bring this kid into the world it's going to be a live baby we might as well value that this baby gets into the world healthfully and as safely as possible.
Our second area of clash is about the validation of medicine and technology.
Recognize there is no good reason to have a home birth.
Hospitals can do things that facilitate natural births, water births, no epidurals, all of the things that people often glamorize about having a birth at home hospitals can also provide.
Home births are just like this like beacon of hippie nonsense that sometimes works out but like oftentimes ends in especially for like women who are older or less healthy in massive amounts of complications that midwives have to hand off to ambulances anyway but by the time that they did that ambulance ride becomes a lot more expensive and it also just becomes a lot more difficult to treat than if you're able to catch these circumstances earlier as you can do in a hospital and so we think that it's actually really important to protect the integrity of hospitals with this like growing hippie rhetoric like hospitals are more dangerous than being at home, that like natural is good we think it's good when the government signals that hospitals are the most trustworthy and are going to be the safest so we think that this is like a positive intervention.
Proud to propose.