We should increase the use of background checks.
What we mean by this is that we should be doing more for jobs and colleges and all of these areas in which we aren't we aren't doing background checks.
Recognize this is really distinct from checking for crime history because in the status quo you have to declare whether you've ever been convicted of a crime on your job applications and on your college applications either way.
Background checks are something different in that they specifically look for a history of problematic behavior.
So maybe you haven't been convicted formerly of sexual assault but you have a history of having been sent to court with that or like complaints at your school for that.
We think these are all things that are really important for your places of work and for your places of education to know.
So we just think it should be more routine of an occurrence to check for violence and like history of problematic behavior before you allow individuals to enter into densely populated, oftentimes low security areas where people just kind of trust each other even when they not don't shouldn't necessarily do so.
Three main arguments: first first on the - on security being important.
Right?
We think that a lot of the times you can make spaces physically safer if you are more aware of the individuals in them.
Especially in current times with lots of conflicts, businesses have the right to know who works for them.
And we think it's really important also here because this isn't just about is are background checks like an objectively good or bad thing to conduct.
Like do individuals deserve a second chance?
Rather, what it actually is about is whether or not regardless of like the individual context the areas in which you are going to be occupying deserve to know about how you've been behaving and what you have done in the past.
And we think that when you like go into a space where individuals are unarmed, where individuals are trusting of their own safety, then that is something that the business should know.
That there are letting someone in who might be dangerous and might be more at risk than other individuals.
We also think that when it comes to universities they have even more of an obligation to protect students.
Recognize that there's often a correlation between past history of violent acts, or like past history of sexual assault so on so forth, and recidivism rates, so performing that action again.
We think that if someone was someone who really harassed women routinely in high school it is likely they will continue to do that in college and it is likely also that we don't catch that necessarily.
Because a lot of the time these things go informally reported.
So the only way you will find out about them is through a more thorough background check.
We think that's really important.
Our second argument is about being the promotion of honesty and accountability.
We think that people will be more aware of their actions and the consequences of their actions when they know that they might actually get caught for it.
We think do this creates deterrence.
In the status quo there's a really high probability that your history will never be checked and people can just get away with really bad things because no one ever like does a background check.
No one ever wants to know deeper, unless they're going for a government job or something similar.
So we think that when you stop letting them get away with that through the use of background check that is something that is very important.
Our third argument is about creating a safe environment.
What matters is how people feel in their work spaces and even if it is the case that background checks don't actually make anything physically more secure, it is the case that individuals feel like it is going to be more secure, which we think is really important.
Because that's when individuals feel safe performing, that's when there's less tension, that's when people are less trigger happy, and they're less likely to jump to conclusions about certain people's behaviors if they feel like those people have already been checked.
Proud to propose.