The motion for today's debate is that boarding school should be abolished.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why it's bad for the children that go there.
We think forced first and foremost it's bad to be away from parents that early.
We think that parents play a role in children's lives that is very different and more integral than any other relationships that they can build.
Insofar as that my relationship with my parents influences the way that I see the world in the future.
Whether or not I was unconditionally loved, whether or not they listened to my problems, whether they were demanding or not, all of these things change the way that I interact and form relationships in the future.
We think removing parents from the equation too early actively prevents children from being able to create healthy relationships in the future, because they never had the first one that they modeled off of.
Many psychologists have talked about the impact of parents and children.
Whether it's maslow, horny, freud, and all of them have said that in order for healthy relationships to develop, exposure and early exposure is most important.
Second, we want to talk about why this binds students to activities in a way that other schools don't.
We think the cool thing about public schools and schools in the area is that if a child doesn't necessarily like all the activities there and wants to do something extra curricular, they can leave the grounds of the school and go find that elsewhere.
The problem of boarding schools is that children are bound by the ideology of that school.
So, if my parents sent me to a very conservative boarding school, it doesn't matter if I want to do art on the weekends or go do something else, because I am bound to the grounds of that school and cannot leave.
We think this actively prevents children from being able to self actualize, but more so forces them to be in communities that maybe they feel uncomfortable in and can never find an outlet from.
We think this is further corroborated by the higher rates of bullying oftentimes found in boarding schools.
Because there's very little oversight, especially in situations that there's dorms or extracurricular activities.
Boarding schools are often festering pools where students can take power from other students by being bigger, older or stronger.
Higher rates of hazing are also oftentimes present.
We think what this means is that oftentimes students are not just stuck to activities they don't like, but stuck in environments that are actively unsafe and unhealthy for them.
Because you can never leave your leave the situation which you are being bullied in insofar as you are stuck on the grounds of the boarding school, stuck in the dorm that you live in, you're constantly told or bullied that you are like worse than them, and we think that this is incredibly bad for children.
Our second main area of clash is why it's bad for society.
We think that boarding schools are often expensive and the amalgamations of wealth become echo chambers for certain schools of thought.
These kids grow up, and growing up in a boarding school often means that I have more, like oftentimes specifically means that I have more conservative or republican views.
Like probably my family had money and insofar as they sent me away to areas where there were large large amounts of people from similar backgrounds to myself, I never hear other points of views.
We think what this means is that boarding schools are infinitely more likely to have racism and sexism perpetrated throughout them.
Because in boarding schools where it's like, same sex boarding schools especially, women are even more likely to be objectified in commodified because there's never a voice to say this is not what this is for, and children are allowed to grow grow apart from like parental oversight, or from very much oversight.
We think they go into society with the views that their boarding school instilled in them and these views are often difficult to take down.
We think we see this often times when children from boarding schools go into the real world and recognize that suddenly there surrounded by different forms of culture, different genders, and have to start interacting with them, but they've always been stuck in a situation where they didn't have to, and necessarily were taught to think less of them.
Finally, we think this fast tracks the students for colleges and networking in a way that is disproportionately unfair.
Just because my parents couldn't afford a boarding school doesn't mean that I should be put at a disadvantage to someone whose parents could.
We think abolishing boarding schools also abolishes this idea wherein you can just buy your college acceptance a little bit.
Obviously will never get rid of all the benefits but you can like prevent at least this one.
For these reasons proud to propose.