Something that tim is forgetting in this round is that high school is already mandatory for those who are under eighteen in the status quo.
And moreover that in order to drop out when you are between sixteen and eighteen you have to obtain parental permission.
So what he has to show is why it would still be mandatory for people who have reached past adulthood, which we think is where the crux of this debate is because a lot of his arguments are like teenagers make bad decisions and maybe that's true.
But he forgets that when you deal with individuals who are eighteen and over, sure they're still teenagers in that they are teen at the end of the number of their age, but they are also adults in that they have legal responsibility for themselves and have the right to make their own decisions.
Two main arguments, first on individual rights.
We don't think that tim is fair to teenagers.
Sure they can be pretty stupid, but by the time they're making the decision to drop out as I told you, they are over eighteen years of age or have the permission of a parent.
They have enough experience and knowledge to consider what they're going to be missing out on.
Moreover there's a lot of literature in current society and a lot of sources that work to educate kids on why it's so useful to have a high school diploma.
So if they're able to avoid all of those kinds of things and still justify dropping out, we think these are people who should be able to make their own decisions.
And although finishing high school is pretty much objectively likely to open up more career opportunities and higher earning potential, it is not the right of the government to enforce that on individuals.
Adult people have the right to make free decisions of their own lives, even when those decisions aren't the best for them.
This is why the government doesn't mandate mandate exercise for everyone.
As long as the person is the only person they're hurting is themselves, that's the pros and cons that they can weigh for themselves.
When someone chooses not to finish high school, they're only impacting their own future and it's their own right to determine their own future.
Also recognize that plenty of people just aren't cut out to finish high school.
They might not be academically strong.
Different people have different skill sets.
You don't need to have the knowledge of upper level high school classes in order to be someone who's really good with their hands or other skills.
Like sure tim's right, maybe it shows potential employers that you're responsible and can have a commitment, but we think you can also do those kinds of things by working a job like as a as a student in school or like having a job before you drop out and maintaining it or any number of other ways in which you can do these kinds of things.
Forcing people to stay in school often means they actively detract from the education of other people who actually want to be there because they take up teachers' time and energy and because they don't want to be there they tend to act out more which means they detract from the topic even more.
Our second argument is why it's an ineffective and harmful mandate.
Recognize there's no real way for the state to enforce mandatory high school education.
People are just not going to go to school if they don't want to and then allow the punishments to pile up until they get thrown in jail.
This is exactly the way people get screwed over with lower level drug crimes or attempts to vote after having committed a crime.
If people choose not to go to high school, that's their preference.
This might be objectively bad for them, but the government attempting a mandate won't solve it.
And if tim is right, that teenagers don't know anything, this makes it even more pernicious because they're likely to make the wrong short term decisions either way, now it'll just have worse consequences.
Instead we think it's preferable for the government to educate individuals on the economic opportunities that they will access if they choose to finish high school.
You can have programs that encourage high risk youth to finish school and all of this will be infinitely more effective and less likely to have bad side effects.
Proud to oppose.