Don't abolish trade barriers.
James is really fixated on the economics of everyone benefiting from free trade, but we don't care about this, because we don't need to be optimal.
The current system is close enough, where goods are kept fairly cheap, but nations are still able to prioritize their own people and signal when bad behavior of another country won't be tolerated.
In order to win on this kind of argument, james has to show why optimal functioning is necessary, not just why it is nice.
Because given that we are doing absolutely fine in the status quo, we don't think that his changes will have such a positive effect that they are worth it.
Two main arguments, first on having a middle ground.
There needs to be a way to sanction a country and demonstrate displeasure that has some kind of physical impact, IE, more than just angrily talking at a country, but isn't as extreme as starting a literal war or having boots on the ground.
Trade barrier is that in-between method.
We can make a statement without having to opt for an extreme, and it also means we don't have to stay silent.
And this is really good, because other countries do a lot of really bad things and problematic things that hurt their citizens and the US.
We need to be able to respond in some way, but boots on the ground would hurt every actor involved a lot more and also requires a lot more political energy to get behind.
It's a lot harder to get the american people to agree to send soldiers somewhere, even if that country is having a lot of human rights violations, than it is to say, " look, instead, we're not going to send your brothers, your sisters, instead we're just going to have a trade barrier in place for a while and hope that alleviates it. "
And this provides a kind of stepwise exacerbation of the situation that prevents us from going to zero to one hundred really quickly.
James is really excited about everyone benefiting from this but we actually think that's problematic, because it means you continue to benefit corrupt, problematic and abusive regimes, despite the fact that they're doing awful things.
You're not giving them a reason to stop, because there isn't a trade barrier in place that says, " we will lift this once you end this behavior, " but more importantly this this, you're providing them with funds and goods to continue their behavior, because trade grows their economy and feeds their regime.
Our second argument is about the rights of individual countries.
Countries don't have obligations to each other, only to their citizens.
So if a country feels like having a trade barrier is important to its people and its long-term goals, that's the right of the government to impose them.
And we think that this is actually really important because in the conversations about trade barriers, abolishing them essentially means that you're going to have a mandate that we do not do trade barriers ever.
But insofar as those countries are only dictated by the will of the citizens, if the citizens want a trade barrier, those countries have the right to put it in place.
James had to prove that even when there is high popular demand of the citizens that a country serves to have trade barriers, you still shouldn't have it.
Our second under this, though, is about responding to his international collaboration argument, because you still have really good international collaboration on our side of the house, since we still have countries that consistently trade with each other, the way that the US buys mexican avocados, even though california can also grow their own, and there are still taxes on them, but it's still cheaper to import from mexico.
So you still have this consistent collaboration between the two.
If anything, we think we increase collaboration in other ways, because you can do things like dogpile onto regimes that have really bad offenses, like when everybody sanctioned saudi arabia together.
We think that's also a form of collaboration we should value.
Moreover, we think that countries that aren't already collaborating in the status quo won't cooperate in james' world because they have other political reasons not to work with each other, or because they're clearly able to get their own goods at a cheaper price.
So we don't actually think you get a meaningful increase in collaboration, you just end up collaborating with regimes we don't think you should be collaborating, in the first place, with.
Proud to oppose.