We should ban naturopathy.
We mean by this is that we would officially ban the sale and production of naturopathic medicine on a corporate level.
I think we would still be okay with individuals producing their own naturopathic remedies as long as they were not selling it to anyone and it was being used on a smaller scale magnitude but vendors who are caught selling naturopathic remedies would be fined and their stock would be confiscated.
Three main areas of clash, first on why it is bad for the individual.
Recognize first and foremost that naturopathic medicine does not work.
If it did it would have been tested in labs, it would've been proven, and we've been marketed as something that is an efficient treatment rather than a naturopathic noninvasive home remedy.
What this means is that whatever condition you were trying to cure with naturopathy whether it is chronic headaches or whether it is the fact that you hurt yourself when you fell down and you have an open wound these kinds of things continue even after you have applied the supposed treatment.
This is pernicious with small conditions like I mentioned but it becomes even worse when we talk about larger conditions.
So when someone first starts having pains in their chest but they don't check it out for a long time and just keep taking naturopathic medicine but later find out that they've been having cholesterol build up and heart disease all along, you've already allowed the condition to progress for so long that it's going to be infinitely more difficult, more expensive, and more painful to treat it now than it would have been if you had come earlier back then.
The other issue on their side of the house is that what happened these kinds of things tend to be time sensitive so if you have cancer developing in your body and you've been noticing pains and you've been feeling nauseous and you've been exhibiting symptoms but you've continually been drinking a tea that you think is likely to help then we think what happens on their side of the house is that you are infinitely more likely to not be treatable by the time you finally do end up at a doctor because you collapsed in the middle of some public event.
It also becomes more expensive because it necessitates multiple visits to a doctor in addition to the fact that you had to pay for that remedy at the beginning to solve the initial problem.
We think that at the end of the day these kinds of things are really bad for the individual especially when you think about the fact that naturopathic medicine targets two populations: those who are people who cannot afford or do not have insurance to go to a doctor or those who are so hipster and so convinced that noninvasiveness is the way to go that they are just blinded by stupidity.
I think we probably care a lot less about the latter group, they're kind of idiots, but we do care about the way that it impacts the group first people who just don't have the money for insurance and so are hoping that this does something so they can avoid going to a doctor later but given that they still have to end up doing so and often end up suffering even larger conditions because of it, we don't think that his should be something allowed.
Our second area of clash is about how it increases distrust in the overall medical system.
Look the medical system has a history of mistreating women, mistreating minority groups, and now you add to that a bunch of rich hipsters who talk about how they're going to get so enlightened by drinking tea instead of going to the doctor.
The problem that this creates is that individuals who already distrustedthe system are made to distrust it even more and this seeps into people who didn't distrust the system but now we're considering since a large portion of the population is opting for other kind of treatments that maybe they should do.
This is a problematic because although it has a problematic history the medical system is the most efficient and most likely to be supportive in terms of how it can administer care and we think that when you have these kinds of rising distrust it hurts society as a coal because you no longer have people who are going to the doctor regularly doing the things that you actually need to do in order to function that raises things like things like mortality level and disease level but it also reduce healthcare costs as a whole because it's on because given that on that more treatment is is necessary at later terms in your disease and preventative care is almost impossible.
This all contributes to rising costs.
Proud to propose.