We should nationalize electricity generation.
I think the thing we need to recognize here is that this isn't a debate about whether or not electricity generation will be done in a way that is good, because we think that both the government and private companies are capable of doing the same exact process of electricity generation and distributing that electricity to who needs it.
If only because the government has absolute power to just contract a company that already does it in the status quo and just have them do the the process, but collect all of the money and make sure they are setting prices and doing all of that sort of stuff.
So what this is actually a debate about isn't necessarily about quality, but more about whether or not we think that it is the place of private corporations to be taking care of things that are as important as electricity generation for the general populace.
To main arguments, first on why basic services shouldn't be governed by the free market.
Recognize first and foremost the free market is incredibly discriminatory.
Like even though we have things like supply and demand that are supposed to drive prices down, recognize first that these things aren't absolute.
Right?
Like recognize that companies will want to make a profit either way.
So at some point on that supply and demand chain there's a trade off with quality in order to make the price decrease even further than like than than like maybe the demand is requiring or the supply is requiring.
What this means first and foremost, first, that electricity is demanded by literally everyone.
This means that regardless of how many companies there are, and we don't think they're going to be that many because in the status quo there simply aren't, like we have a couple of main ones and the lot of them are regional, so we actually just don't think they're going to be many options for people.
But those companies rely on charging individuals a price that will garner them a profit and if those people aren't capable of paying much either they don't get a service at all which recognize isn't that uncommon, there many people within the united states which don't have any electricity at all, or they start decreasing quality upon giving them electricity.
And we think that that's something the government just won't do.
Why?
Because first the government actually has an incentive to make sure that the individual is taken care of.
Because when someone doesn't have electricity and that forces them to not being able being able to like drink water or make food or they freeze in the winter, that's all stuff that rebounds on the government.
We think that without electricity people can't access not just the lights in their house, but we think the lights are important enough as it is, they also can literally risk freezing to death in the winter or dying of dehydration in the summer.
Like not having electricity, especially for someone who maybe uses electric pipes to carry their water upwards and things like that can really be a matter of life and death for citizens of this country.
And we think that the government needs to step in to make sure that electricity is provided at a reasonable price in an equitable manner.
And we think that the government is really the only body that has the incentive to go into areas that might be farther away, or less densely populated, or populated very densely but with people who are poorer, because the government is the one that needs to do things like get reelected or prevent people from uprising against it.
But our second argument is about creating incentives to deliver.
Because as we told you the government has a vested interest in the well being of the general populace.
Not just because as I told you the general populace is likely to rise up and overthrow them if they're not if they're not happy, but also because the people who aren't taken care of by the by like electricity oftentimes end up relying on the government.
So if I'm someone whose house has been cut off from electricity for weeks and weeks I'm more likely to end up requiring government housing or government like shelters and things like that.
And we think that's something the government does not want.
It's bad for the economy, it's bad for the individual and it's bad for the government.
We also just think that at the end of the day this is personally around about accountability.
It's really hard for common individuals to sue companies and get a good verdict.
Right?
Because companies have all this money they can spend a law teams and they have all and it's like very difficult for individuals to afford a lawyer to go up against them and things like that.
But the government, you can literally do things like start massive petitions against it, there are like nonprofits specifically created for this purpose.
Proud to propose.