We should not ban home births.
First under this, I just want to say that we're fine with adding regulations, like maybe we're going to run informational campaigns, maybe we're going to force individuals who are planning on having a home birth to obtain a doctor's permission beforehand.
Like we're fine with making it harder for people to have a home birth, but what we're not fine with is banning it entirely.
With that, two main areas of clash: first, on maximizing maternal comfort.
We think the person who gets the most say about the context in which they're going to give birth is the person who is going through the birthing process, and in this case is the mother.
This is because this is the person who is invoking the most harm onto their own body in the process of doing this, but also stands the most to lose insofar as we don't think that a child who like like as sad as it is for a child to die in childbirth, we don't think it is nearly as much of a justice claim for a child who hasn't even begun their life yet, has no method of contextualizing, and will not be sad upon dying, and will not and like just doesn't have as much like of a context in which to have existed, like we don't think they have as much of a justice claim as the mother who is actually the one who has the most to lose insofar as they are fully formed person with fully formed preferences.
What we need, then, is to make sure that these mothers feel comfortable why are they are giving while they're giving birth.
Like lots of people take issue with how clinical hospitals are and how they smell, or they aren't comfortable, or they like really don't like doctors, and we think that this discomfort is much more likely to lead to complications during like giving birth than anything done in a home birth actually would.
And we think that like a second layer to this is the government doesn't actually know an individual's life.
Like they don't know what their weighing calculus is, they don't know what their phobias or insecurities might be, and so we don't think that the government has the right to choose on the part of the individual, where such an intimate process is going to occur or in whose presence.
Our second area of clash is about why there isn't actually the standard vet to ban because what two standards does does drew give you?
First he tells you that this there's like an asymmetry of info and because of this, you cannot like do this thing.
But the problem with this is that this is true for literally anything.
Like we think that when I choose colleges, there's necessarily an asymmetry of info between me and someone whose parents paid like tons and tons of money to go to college prep sections.
And like as such, we're unsure why that is like something that is good, or like why that is something that is standing.
Also, we think that a lot of the time, these things are remedied through education campaigns, like making sure that people have access to the proper information about how they are doing or like what they're behaving, in what ways.
And so, we don't actually think that you can that you can like argue for asymmetry of information here.
Like, at most, all this does is place an obligation on the part of the government to provide individuals with this information.
But the second standard that drew gives you is safety.
He asserts that because it's so dangerous and costs so much, you cannot have home births.
Like, first, this assertion is nonsense, right?
We tell you that most home births are done with very careful oversight from midwives and like lots of considerations from doctors.
Like it's very rare for someone to just jump into a home birth and say, " whatever. "
But we also think that the type of person who's going to jump into a homebirth is going to do so on both sides of the house, right?
Like someone who doesn't care about the safety of their child, who irrationally believes in this being a positive force, we're unsure that this policy is actually going to deter them insofar as they'll probably just be like they'll have a homebirth and then afterwards to the authorities, they'll just be like: oh, it was an accident.
Like I didn't know it was coming.
I went into labor really quickly.
Like maybe our car was broken down.
So, the people we were trying to deter, it's not actually deterring, rather it's just taking the individuals who would have looked this up anyway and would have had a safe time, like that's who it's giving a hard time to.
But also, even if not, like women gave birth in the woods for ages, we're unsure why this is somehow so magnanimously worse.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.