The motion for today's debate is that we should adopt atheism.
What we mean by this is that we would prefer a world in which everyone was an atheist to a world in which different religions exist such as in the status quo.
Three main areas of clash, first, on decreasing xenophobia.
Right off the bat we think that there's just no xenophobia if no religious religion exists in order to in order to be the target or perpetrator of xenophobic views.
Religion is an especially divisive topic insofar as it creates the basis of people's relationships with the world.
It explains the very big questions that teach us how to live our lives and teach us why we're here and all of that and because people oftentimes use this as a foundation to build the rest of their world view they get incredibly defensive and angry when they're questioned about it because they see their world view as threatened and it makes the entirety of their lives very fragile and we think and insofar as they would be lost without these kinds of views they get very aggressive and oftentimes violent in response to feeling threatened.
When we take away those differences, people start from the same fundamentals.
You're less likely to have a war over which god you follow.
There doesn't exist the same kind of moral superiority of because I'm a christian and you're a muslim, I have the correct religion and you don't and we think that this is actually something that is really necessary especially right now because what we see is that even though religion can often advocate for really good moral practices, it also often advocates for an in group and out group and almost always in order to keep people believing in it, tells people that they are somehow special for believing in what they believe.
We see this with judaism and being called the chosen people and we see this with christianity where they're seeing themselves as enlightened because they believe in christ and so we think that until we're able to put people on the same groundwork it is unlikely that you can get meaningful change in terms of treating people equally.
Our second independent point is about promoting rational thought.
There isn't proof of a god and almost certainly no legitimate doctrine right?
Like we know that even things like the torah or the bible were mostly man made with no proof that it was ever given to us by divine beings in fact, a lot of the nonsense in it tells us that it is very unlikely that it has been.
Religion requires people to accept information as fact without proof of that and insofar as it does so, it denies rationality on face and teaches people to take things without necessarily requiring proof for them.
This is really bad because it allows people to build a frame of mind that starts not with critical thinking but rather with sheer acceptance.
So when they are put into situations where authority figures say this is what is true, they're much less likely to question it and even if this might not be problematic on the basis of like churches or religious leaders we think that it gets really really bad when you think about people being more prone not to question authority on a like more governmental or global mobile insofar as they are often just choosing which person sounds most authoritative and then just going along with it because they were never taught to critique those power structures and so once you get rid of religion, we think that you're just much more likely to be teaching critical thinking to people because you're not requiring them to enter the world and take information as it without questioning it.
Our third independent point is about creating a better society.
Sure churches often do a lot of good.
But people should be doing good for better reasons and shouldn't be altruism because of god but rather because logically it stems from this idea that everyone is equal, everyone is human, and you're just lucky to have access to what you have and you should be doing good because of that.
So we think a lack of religion actually leads to less selective good.
You're going to be doing good things regardless of the religion of the other person or the sexuality or the race.
Where is currently a lot of the time moral doctrines say of religions say you ought be doing good to this individual as long as they believe the same as you or something like that.
We also think that getting rid of religion stigmatizes women.
Many oppressive practices rise from religious doctrine and you're much more likely to see women as people when you get rid of religious words that code them as something other.
For these reasons, proud to propose.