Don't increase the use of background checks.
We are fine with the current amount and with individual corporations doing whatever they want, we just don't think it does anything to increase this the background checks from what happens in the status quo.
Recognize that already in the status quo, any company that wants to background check an employee, any group that has a reason to background check can.
The mechanisms and the tools to do so exist in the status quo.
What we are debating here is whether or not there is a reason for the average corporation to increase the amount that it does, which means, sure, we agree with tim.
It's perfectly reasonable for corporations to request background checks, but insofar as that's possible in the status quo, tim has to show why we need to increase that number, why that choice calculus has to change, why a company should instead of, as it does now, saying I don't need to background check more, why that need exists.
Background checks for firearms, we're fine with that, but we think that that kind of thing needs to be needs to be decided on democratically.
So you need to have the general population vote on these kinds of things, like tell their legislatures to make these kinds of decisions, and only then can you enforce that kind of policy.
This is just basically to prevent the kind of oppression that we thinks occur when the government assumes that things will be better for the general citizenry without checking in with them first.
We recognize that the government is an imperfect actor who can't actually predict everything that citizens might value or prefer, which is why they have to defer to their word directly.
Three main arguments, first on why these increased background checks are unnecessary.
Employers already ask for your criminal history.
Groups that need to already do things that are more in depth, such as the government jobs that have higher bars for background checks before giving someone security clearance versus your average like service job that you might take on.
Most jobs that have people working with children also make sure to have these kinds of addendums.
So it's really unclear to us why exactly we think that increasing is a good idea.
We think that at the end of the day, as long as these kinds of background checks are going to be expensive, the cost of creating a culture of increasing the amount of background checks will always fall the hardest on small businesses.
It does things like prevent you from being able to start a worker immediately.
It also forces you to make these kinds of judgments that essentially preclude individuals from being able to change or at least being able to operate in the world as though they have changed, which we think is bad.
At the end of the day, as long as we think that people are getting background checked for the things that background checks are necessary for, we already win the round.
But our second argument is about preventing people from being able to change.
More information doesn't always lead to better decision-making, because facts of the past can't always predict the behavior of the future.
You can't pretend that a record will get expunged.
That's really hard for people, especially those without political connections, to do which means that, oftentimes, the only thing you can do is hope that your employer never looks into the things that happened in your past in the first place.
For many industries, it's really low risk to hire someone based on their initial character or based on an interview without the background check, because all that they'll find is, oftentimes, like, basically small crimes that really won't preclude them from doing the job but might scare you off from hiring them just because you don't have to take on that risk.
We're saying that sometimes taking on that risk can change someone's life completely for the better, but it very rarely hurts the company that makes that decision.
Proud to oppose.