We should fight for quebecois independence.
What we mean by this is that we would start with a referenda, if more than fifty percent of individuals living within quebec want out, then we would start the negotiations for secession.
When we say living in quebec, we specifically mean those with established residency, so we're not talking about individuals who moved there very recently, we want to talk about long-term quebecois and their future.
Two main arguments, first on democratic will.
Recognize that the right to self-determination is literally the basis upon which every single country is built.
Even the ones that have currently undemocratic regimes oftentimes found themselves breaking away from other countries, or other essentially occupiers, in order to be individual states.
Because we see that individuals deserve to predict what their future is going to be, and deserve to control the kind of government that molds those futures.
It is a key part of democracy, which is what kind of government is going to represent those citizen preferences.
Recognize also that the role of the government here is very important, the role of the government is to represent citizen preference.
And if the government isn't delivering on that, citizens ought revolt.
They ought overthrow it and they ought put one in place that actually represents their needs.
The problem with situations like quebec is that it's a little bit more complicated, right?
Like the government is representing the interests of other citizens in canada, it simply isn't doing that for those who live in quebec.
So we think what happens then is that secession is justified and actually necessary.
Because you cannot compromise those people for the overall country, you need to let them separate to prevent their oppression.
You shouldn't have to live under a government that doesn't represent them, and it's if in if we do not fight for quebecois independence, that's when we think that you are actually failing the individuals within that state.
We think like a problem that side opposition is going to have to deal with is explaining why when a group is oppressed we ought not fight for independence, regardless of the externalities.
Because we are talking about the long-term issue, that is how you're going to evaluate this round, is that in the long term we will weigh the freedom to self-determine of the quebecois above anything that you might say about the short-term harms to the economy, or to other or to like the surrounding area.
Those are things that will go away over time, but the oppression and the destruction of a culture will not.
This brings us to our second independent point, which is about the maintenance of culture.
Quebec has a different culture, language, etcetera from the rest of canada.
When it is a part of canada then it is threatened with assimilation, in that the rest of canada is english speaking and descended from the british occupation, while quebec is french speaking and descended from the french occupation.
So as you have more and more individuals from surrounding canada flooding quebec, you have the assimilation and disintegration of quebec culture over time.
This is really bad, because it means that you're literally just losing and forgetting all of the individuals and all of their history that was there before, and you will never be able to experience that culture again.
We think that this is worth preservation, and the only way to do so is to allow quebec to separate, so that it can codify for itself its own national language and its own heritage.
We think the problem right now is that france is that canada is doing this thing where they're pretending that they have two national languages, french and english, even though it is only one province that speaks french.
We think that eliminating that on their side is also positive.
Like canada spends millions of dollars on maintaining two languages within schools, when in reality it doesn't need to.
So stop forcing these two areas into an unhealthy compromise, rather allow them to just self-determine individually.
Proud to propose.