The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce compulsory voting.
First a little bit of modeling.
We think that this would basically consist of automatic voter registration.
Either we're going to have online ballots, or in the very least voting days going to be moved to a weekend.
Like we think that if we're introducing something compulsory were also going to make it as easy for people to access it as possible, and it's also going to be a situation in which like clearly this is in the united states and yeah.
So two main areas of clash: first on the alternation of societal specific norms.
So first we think that currently there's a massive problem with individuals being uninformed and apathetic about their local governments, and about their widespread elections.
They feel like their votes don't matter and they feel like they don't know enough to vote in the first place.
And currently people are okay with being like that because they know that they're not gonna vote and they've already kind of fooled themselves into believing that it wouldn't matter even if they did.
But when you actually place a pressure on these individuals, and you say that: " look, you like you're going to have to vote when it comes down to it. "
And you force them to face the fact that their vote will matter, we think there's much more pressure to remain informed, because you feel like you're actually going to be letting yourself and others down if you don't.
And so we think that people are going to start treating it much more like a duty and they're also going to be more pressure to inform on the part of political parties in the media.
Because if you're going to make something compulsory, and there's going to be large swathes of people who are going out who previously had not been, you're also going to have much more catering on the part of political political parties to those who they never really had faced before.
We also think that what we do on our side of the house is make voting a normal expectation.
Currently, people see voting as like a pleasant right.
It's like an option that they don't necessarily have to take, especially since they don't have to tell their friends that they didn't have to take it.
So what we would prefer is a world in which we saw voting as a specific duty that we have to do.
If we change the culture, we change the people around it as well.
So we think that as soon as we can instill this norm you're going to have much more enthusiasm about voting, you're going to have much more research about the political candidates and all that good stuff.
We also think that creating compulsory voting is likely to decrease national divisiveness.
A divided nation occurs in part because a part of that nation feels unheard and others don't reach out or recognize that they feel unheard.
But the part of the reason that they aren't recognizes because they tend not to say very much about it.
And we think that voting replaces that speech.
It allows them to stay silent without staying silent completely, because you're still going to start a conversation about this like change in the proportion of votes.
So we think that you'd actually be able to catch something like the current donald trump phenomena much earlier, because you're actually going to see people being forced to vote early on and you're going to see their political leanings and you're going to be able to ask why are we suddenly seeing this like massive demographic that has never voted like has always voted democratic or like has always been a third party, start to vote for like more extremist characters.
Our second area of clash has to do with achieving the most representative government.
Because in the end of the united states is a democracy and it doesn't want to represent the people who live within it.
So we think first that compulsory voting forces politicians to advertise to those historically disadvantaged and non voting populations.
Because currently all they have to do is isolate those populations that are most likely to vote and cater to them.
These populations tend to be the rich and like the upper middle class.
But now there's this massive new voting block and it forces politicians to inform them about what's going on because they want to have their vote.
It forces them to pass policy that these people are going to agree with because they need to have their vote.
We also think it decreases the power of money in the political system.
Currently giving cash basically gets you whatever you want, but if you have to get elected first, we think that you actually divert the attention for money to solid votes instead.
For these reasons proud to propose.