The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce a carbon tax.
I think we are placing this in the united states and we're going to apply this carbon tax on all corporations, and it would scale with the amount of carbon that you omit, so those that are less carbon-producing would pay less money on this tax and those who are more carbon-producing would would take would have more.
In addition to this, we would say that we would invest all of the resulting funds into fighting global warming and global warming outreach and education.
With that, two independent points: first, on creating an incentive for corporations to change their environmentally unfriendly behavior.
Recognize that currently there's an economically it is economically preferable to be awful to the environment insofar as this means you get to use cheaper labor and cheaper materials, and a lot of the infrastructure that already exists in the status quo is in the most environmentally damaging way that would have to be then replaced.
So like smoke stacks that have filters on top or massively a creation of the current time period.
So any kind of buildings or factories that were built before then necessarily don't have this technology, but also this technology is more expensive just by virtue of the extra work that had to be put into it.
What we think a carbon tax does is it stops making it economically preferable to have to not follow good environmental standards or take care of the environment because it costs money now.
It incentivizes a decrease in carbon emissions that doesn't currently exist.
It's also important because corporations, factories, are some of the biggest structural polluters there.
We think that changing individual behaviors is always going to be marginal by comparison to changing the behaviors of the hundreds of large corporations and factories that exist in the status quo insofar as even one of those make up the pollution of over a hundred individual people.
So we think in terms of best policy action, it's always going to be preferable to target corporations rather than to target the individual consumer and individually environmentally unfriendly person.
If we want to stop global warming, you need to stop individual corporations from propagating it.
And also, I think it's important to note exactly how bad global warming is.
It destroys coastlines as the sea level rises, which sucks up entire cities and villages, killing people and displacing them into other areas that then become more and more overpopulated.
It changes the weather in areas so that the crops that usually grew there can no longer do so.
It makes it so that there are more diseases as areas that previously were much colder heat up, and suddenly malaria can survive there.
And it like also destroys livestock that like previously could exist in that area but no longer can adapt to the to the surrounding temperature and weather.
It also just like, besides these kinds of like very bad impacts in the short term, recognize that global warming's a terminal impact insofar as it leads to the literal heat death of the universe.
This is something we think you ought prevent insofar as it destroys all of humanity as well as all of the animals, etcetera, that live on the earth.
We'd prefer a world in which that didn't happen.
Our second area of clash is about encouraging green technology innovation.
Once there is a real demand, that's when people are capable of producing and innovating at their top peak and selling it for the cheapest amount possible.
We think currently the demand for green energy technology exists only on small-stick operations and smaller groups that are take it upon themselves to be environmentally friendly, but insofar as the vast majority of corporations and individuals still don't care, we don't have enough demand to make this matter.
We think the only time that you get enough demand is when you make corporations care enough to create it, and we need that to occur in order to stimulate the innovation that will make it cheaper later for smaller corporations or school buildings or individual people to adopt that technology to themselves.
We also think you just end up with creating more efficient technology insofar as it inspires competition now that there's a demand to do so.
We think what happens in the status quo is that maybe one group makes this thing, but if no one really cares about it, then there's no incentive for other groups to make that thing better.
So we think it's actually quite good when you stimulate the economy and do all of these things that are like socially good by having a carbon tax.
For these reasons, proud to propose.