The motion for today's debate is that we should raise corporate tax.
So I think that we're going to define certain barrier of corporations.
We think that only those that are relatively large, so let's say like they earned a like a lot more money than like we think that we can classify in different ways, based on like employee size and how much they make, what a large corporation will be, and I think that's where you like going to raise the corporate tax considerably.
And we think it's like a progressive tax, like smaller corporation get a lower one, larger corporations get a really big one, but it would be a raise to whatever we currently have.
With that, two main areas of clash: first on the principle justification for why it is okay to do so.
Recognize the corporations have plenty of money and that this money is made massively because of capitalist system that inherently oppresses the poor.
Recognize that it relies on having cheap labor and consumers that are relatively ill informed of their other alternatives so that they will buy this object, and it takes large amounts of available wealth away from those that might be able to use it better or use it to lift themselves out of poverty.
So at the point that all of this is true we think that capitalism, but also just the systems with which corporation's rise to power at all, are structurally disadvantaging those in poverty, and so we actually think that this is very very bad and as such they owe a larger debt back to society due to the drain that they have caused.
And and then we also just like want to note that a lot of the time they also politically disadvantage the individuals so that people can get other policy passed, which means that this kind of policy would be helpful in counteracting some of the political influence they have as well.
But second I want to talk about marginal utility.
Because we think that ten dollars to a wealthy person means less than to someone who is actively struggling, for whom lunch is maybe something they don't know if they can afford, and this is something that can massively help them in such a way.
And we think the problem is that that when you take some money away from corporation it's fine insofar as they will have enough money either way.
Like at most some high level CEO's will earn a little bit less on our side of the house.
But we're fine with that because a lot more money goes into the social system and helps those who are going to be able to use this money most effectively either way.
Our second area of clash is about increasing societal good.
Because recognize that this money can be used very effectively, rather than to take rich people out to lunches that they'd be able to afford either way, or like become the inheritance that rich children acquire after their parents passed.
And we think that that's like very bad and we prefer for that money to go back into the economy and like do social good.
We think that being able to redistribute wealth, either through welfare or through direct investment, back into economy has better social outcomes than the things that I just listed that rich people do.
First recognize that welfare structurally helps those in need.
Being able and like a lot of the time welfare specifically is incredibly underfunded and doesn't actually get like the amount of money that it needs to service the large amount of individuals that would come to rely on it.
We think the problem with that is that there's like no one actively giving into that system or helping it enough.
So we think that when you take money from a corporations and put it into welfare you're actually creating a world in which you're able to help those most in need more than you currently are.
Like provide more food stamps, provide better public housing, invest in programs like education and cheaper colleges, and this is really important because it makes individuals who have previously been signed off by society into people who can actively be more productive and helpful.
And we think that it's good when individuals are able to achieve their potential regardless of the fact that they were born into a situation that, outside of their control, pushed them into a box.
We also think that economic investment is more macro scale beneficial in a lot of ways as well.
We think that taking money away from already established corporations and putting it into start ups is what actually stimulates our economy.
Insofar corporations that have created monopolies just stagnate, don't attract new investors, and oftentimes keep a lot of the wealth among themselves so that there's not actually any kind of trickle down, we think that when you are able to support things like start ups or able to put that money elsewhere you're actually stimulating better economic growth on our side of the house.
For these reasons, proud to propose.