We think that throughout his speech, tim misdefines and misunderstands the way that nationalism works.
Because it's not the case that nationalism refers to the separation of people based on their skin color or where they originally came from, rather nationalism has to do with the identity that you acquire when you enter into a country, and the way that you identify as a communal country.
We think that the cool part about nationalism is that oftentimes it is more inclusive than the alternatives, because we think that on both sides of the house, people are going to want to be exclusive and separationist, and create groups of communities.
The difference is how you define those communities.
Do we want them to be defined based on race and race and skin color and religion, or would we prefer that they were defined along the borders that already exist in the status quo.
We think that tim is never going to be able to get rid of individual states regardless of how coercive they think they he thinks they are, but the but at least you can maintain people's individual communities based along the state lines that already exist, to prevent further exclusivity from occurring.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why we need nationalism, and the second on counteracting xenophobia and immigrant hate.
First, on needing nationalism.
We think that there will always be external threats to a country, whether they are economic or physical with regards to security and nature.
And when these threats come up, we tell you that you need people to be able to rally on behalf of the state to counteract them.
You're going to need people who are going to be willing to fight for the betterment of the state, even if if occasionally it hurts others, because in the end there are millions of people who live under it who require state protection.
We think it's not true what tim says, when he says that the state is inherently coercive.
We think that the state is oftentimes, especially in liberal democracies, a reflection of the people within it and of their desires.
Even if it if it can occasionally take coercive action, it is also incredibly necessary insofar as without that state, you just have individual small groups of people, all attempting to gain power over others.
We think the state is more rational than individual groups of people, and important for keeping global peace, etcetera.
But we tell you that without nationalism, you don't do good work for the state, you don't work for the community around you, you only work for yourself, because you don't have an inspiration or reason to work beyond those who are directly related to you.
We think that a rejection of nationalism is a rejection of your community, and ultimately leads to the death of your culture.
Because recognize that the only reason that we have things like the united states being able to rally mass amounts of support for things like wars, whether these wars are positive or negative, at least some of them are good and necessary for the protection of the united states, is because of nationalism, letting people believe in the mission.
More than this though, we think that smaller scale things, things like pro bono work for the community are also oftentimes based in nationalism.
We want to uplift the poorest of our community, because we think they are also representations of what our nation is doing and we don't want them to exist that way.
Second, on counteracting xenophobia and immigrant hate.
Because we think that xenophobia occurs because we identify our communities based on race separations.
But we think that when we identify based on nationality and nationalism, we also accept those of different races and different religions, because we see our identity as based on where we live and on the values that we hold within that nation, rather than just on race or religion.
We think it's also more expensive and often in times includes immigrants.
The reason that we can have massive migrations from the russian like from like even my own parents when they come in from russia and say this is our new nation, and then be accepted within that, is because of nationalism saying that we understand that your previous situation was worse, and are like and want you to accept this nation and work for this nation.
We think strong national identity then allows these immigrants to become power houses and establish their own identity within the nation.
This is why we have situations in which it becomes the american melting pot, because nationalism has space in it for different immigrant identity and different cultures.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.