We shouldn't increase environmental protections.
Two main arguments: first, on the expenses.
First under this is about the way in which environmental protection destroys jobs.
Companies have to cut costs in order to adapt to these higher protections that bite into their profit margins, which means they have to decrease the number of people working, and those who are left often have decreased benefits.
This is really problematic because individuals really need to be able to have jobs in order to like provide for themselves and their family in order to not have to end up relying on governmental services in the long term or, worse still, just living on the streets or other situations that people in poverty often end up in.
This also when you don't have enough job you jobs, you also often have higher levels of things like crime and other like bad situations that we don't think people should be involved in, like drugs.
So, as such, we think that the fact that it destroys jobs is actually really big deal and one of the major voters in this round, but also environmental protections lower overall quality of life.
To lower emissions, you have to give up a lot of the more comfortable habits on a personal level, things like heating your house to a good temperature, driving to places that you could have used lengthier public transport routes to, etcetera, etcetera.
And we think that these are things that individual people do rely on, just for their own mental health and for their own comfort, to a fairly large degree.
Like if my commute to work is an hour and a half by bus but is only ten minutes or twenty minutes by car, which often happens because of the circuitous routes, that's something that makes a really big difference on my life, and on my mental health, and on how much time I have in the day.
And then on a corporate level, individual companies can't produce the same way so cost of goods increases and people can't afford them anymore.
Keep in mind that there are billions of people in existence, so these kinds of things might sound small but what we're talking on that kind of scale, the impacts are actually very large and matter.
Environmental protections also push corporations out of the country.
Companies will just go to countries that have less protections, which brings me to my second argument which is that it's too late anyway.
Government probably talked about how we're at an environmental tipping point and we have to impose protections now or suffer awful consequences, and this might be true.
But the problem with this argument depends is that it depends on proving that increasing environmental protections in one country at this time will make meaningful difference in terms of protecting the environment more broadly overall.
Saving the environment at this point in time would require a massive international collaboration that we can't obtain to a high enough intensity or in a reasonable amount of time.
At this point that we're going to have to deal with the long-term consequences of environmental degradation either way, we might as well not disadvantage ourselves, not destroy jobs, not decrease our quality of life, and just handle those issues as they come up.
It would be a much better idea to pour money into scientists who can find solutions for these environmental problems rather than trying to create protections that will prevent them.
We are already past the point of prevention.
This is especially true since environmental protections tend to hurt those who are poor more.
Richer people can adapt to changes more luxuriously and continue to afford the same goods, and this just isn't the case for those who are in poverty.
So at the point that we're just disadvantaging people who already are and at the point that we're already past the tipping point, we don't think we should be having environmental productions.
Proud to oppose.