The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce year round school.
Or modeling this distinctly in the united states, given that we know that many other countries have already implemented this.
We think this would look something like three week breaks every two months, but you would consistently have school.
Like there wouldn't be a designated summer vacation that is multiple months long and so it would be as year round as possible.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why it's better for students.
First under this we want to talk about why students are infinitely less likely to forget things on our side of the house.
Because in the status quo there's this massive issue were students leave the school for three months and they stop reviewing stuff, and they stop learning new things.
And because they're not practicing they begin to forget all of the material that they've been building up through the course of the year.
And as such people go back to school and get like very jarred and very like shaken back into like the rest of their lives.
Right?
They have to spend weeks reviewing previous material, which is like wasted essentially, they struggle to get back because they've forgotten how to study or what they're studying.
And we think that a world in which we make it easier on students and reduce their stress is really good insofar as we've actually found a lot of long term studies that show that students who are more under stress do things like function less effectively, are more prone to getting sick in the future and things like that.
We also think that there's a certain argument here about preparation for the real world.
Insofar as the purpose of school is to take individuals completely unprepared to deal with reality and make them ones that can, we think that summer vacations fundamentally violate that purpose insofar as there are no summer vacations once you graduate and have a real job.
We think that school should mimic that, otherwise they're fundamentally underperforming in what they're designated to be doing by not preparing individuals for the real world.
Our second area of clash is about maximizing the efficiency of the school system and education.
Because recognize that the USA is massively falling behind other countries in primary school education.
Students are comparatively underperforming on most standardized tests in most areas that are deemed important.
Like we've been doing awfully in mouth for a very long time, like very fundamental areas.
And many other countries have already adopted these kinds of policies where it's been fully functional.
Like I'm pretty sure the netherlands and sweden are countries that have year round school, and the entire world hasn't collapsed yet.
We also think it's really important to note that having year round school keeps from wasting a lot of school resources that currently are.
Like at the point that a teacher has to do half a semester worth of review every time that students come back from summer vacation, we think that it's a lot of time wasted that wouldn't have to be wasted if you had a year round school.
Like it's a problem that at the beginning of every history class you have to go over like the most recent american history.
At the beginning of every social studies class you have to go over the fundamental workings of the court.
Like these are things that students should just know coming in and it wastes a lot of valuable time and a lot of valuable knowledge to have to review this every single time.
So we think that that's fundamentally inefficient and shouldn't be happening.
But more on the the but more than this, the fact that these buildings stay empty for months on end every time these people take break for the summer is really bad.
Right?
Like we think that it's more good when you're not just actively allowing school resources to lay around empty.
We also think there's an important argument here.
Like a lot of the time summer just means that parents have to find a way to occupy their kids.
And this is really difficult for anyone who has people parents who are working.
Or if you're a family in poverty who can't afford to just send your kid to a summer camp.
And so we think that providing children with unstructured free time that places the burden on parents to entertain them and make sure that they're not out like being hooligans, is really bad for the retention of individuals in trust and like safety and things like that.
And we think that school can serve as a meaningful structuring of time there given that parents shouldn't have to do that.
For these reasons, proud to propose.