The motion for today's debate is that we should increase the use of personal medications.
We see this as like more money into personal medical techniques, more disease mapping, redirection of hospital resources to focus on the mapping of individuals genomes to track where you can personally interject preventative care.
With that, three main areas of clash.
First on changing the approach to healthcare.
We think that there is has always been tension between preventative care and care for like once the diseases already occurred.
And the tension isn't that like people disagree about which is preferable.
Everybody understands that preventative care is always cheaper, more effective, and less invasive dash dangerous to the individual than care once the person is already sick.
The disagreement occurs over whether one is possible, and oftentimes we see that preventative care is impossible because it's just really difficult to predict what conditions a person is likely to get.
This changes when you are able to use personal medications to track out an individual's genome, predict what they are likely to have, and then assemble a personalized treatment plan based on that.
So we think that what happens on our side of the house is that you're going to have a much more preferable approach where individuals are unlikely to have to suffer through the condition in the first place.
This means that we're not going to have any of the physical pain, but you also avoid the cost to productivity that occurs when people aren't able to work because of the fact that they are having a condition, when people like when friends and family are like impacted by a person who is sick.
And so we think that all of this is really important, because the difference is very simple.
Once I already have cancer, I have to undergo things like chemotherapy, I have to often have like invasive surgeries.
This takes me out of the workforce, it takes me out of my family, it risks my life, and it causes me a lot of pain.
Compare this to a world in which we could predict that there are certain factors that are likely to make you have cancer, then we're able to manipulate those factors.
IE have a personalized plan in which you have a certain set of nutrients that you take per day, or preventative medication, things like that.
And we think that in that world, because you're not suffering as much all at once, you don't have to leave any of those fears that you've ingratiated yourself into.
We also think that it doesn't contribute to drug resistance in the same way, because it would ultimately eliminate that need for like antibiotics to happen after you have a sickness.
You'd be able to cut down on hospital beds per like hospital, so like more efficient use of resources, and it would be really good for the broader population in that you'd be able to identify diagnoses a lot earlier and treat it more effectively.
So you'd be able to avoid medications that don't work or would cause adverse reactions.
Our second area of clash is about benefiting broader research.
Because recognize that when we personalize medical care, we necessarily take down a lot of personal data about that individual.
Oftentimes we take down what genes they have, we map their genome, and this makes it really easy to trace population trends in disease.
So you're able to see dispositions broken down based on demographics, based on biological characterizations, and when you aggregate this data within a research sphere, this makes it a lot easier to do things like identify diseases that are linked to different kinds of genes, or identify like like likelihood of getting a certain condition based on certain factors.
This allows us to essentially map probabilities which makes more efficient treatment in the future and it's good for research.
Our third area of clash is about health care costs and keeping them low.
Recognize that personalized medication streamlines drug development which makes it a lot cheaper.
Because you have a lot less of the traditional trial and error, you're able to more efficiently target the specific issues that are mapped across populations.
It's always cheaper to do preventative care or early care rather than full on treatment later as well, because the things are oftentimes a lot less invasive.
Like the chemotherapy cocktail alone costs upwards of like thousands and thousands of dollars, but being on a certain health care regime is usually a lot cheaper.
Proud to propose.