The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce goal-line technology.
What we mean by this is that we would mandate that all levels of the game above those played for children below the ages of probably sixteen to like anything above the high school, middle school elementary school level would require the use of goal-line technology.
With that two main areas of clash, first on sticking to the spirit of the game.
Recognize that fairness is one of the most important things in a game insofar as it allows individual players to play the game and like play you to the fullest extent because they know or have a belief that the system is going to be fair to them.
No one is going to engage in a sport or an activity where they know they are doomed to fail and people get bored easily if they know they are doomed to win.
But even if you don't buy that individual players require fairness to exist, it's really important for fans as well in order to enjoy the sport.
The only reason that sports exist are because people like them whether it's playing them or watching them and the way in which both players and fans get enjoyment out of it is by the knowledge that referees can be trusted and that individual players are relying on their skill to win a game and not just whether or not the referee likes them or whether or not they're like in a particular bracket and they've been like paid off to lose or win.
So when a game is unfair the players' skills undermined and both the players and the fans are unhappy.
Goal-line technology is an incredibly easy solution to maintaining the integrity of the game and it also maintains the speed of the game which we think is also an element that individuals really appreciate when it comes to sports.
Insofar as one of the reasons that I want to go to sports games for that rush of adrenaline to keep up with it so I think that the speed is actually very integral to like why we enjoy sports and why sports as an institution are like agreeable as well.
Instant replay which is the current technology to check grey-area goals takes a really long time to go through and pauses the game significantly, during which time fans get bored players like get out of their adrenaline rush and we really think that like all in all it doesn't benefit anyone because one minute of game can take over twenty minutes to analyze by instant replay.
And we think a really solution for that really easy solution for that is goal-line technology that just kind of indicates whether or not the line was line was crossed.
We think that it's a really easy solution.
But our second area of clash is the way in which it interacts positively with referees.
First in assisting the good ones.
Recognize that this technology doesn't make referees obsolete.
Refs are still needed to oversee the rest of the game and make the obvious calls or the ones that they're certain about.
But this is assists in times when it seems like there is a gray area.
This is better than both the human eye and video playback insofar as both of those still depend on the perspective of the individual viewing them or the perspective of where the camera is placed and because the ball often overshadows the line you can never see if it definitively cost center or not.
Like maybe it's three quarters of the way through as compared to one half and it's really difficult to discern with like any version that relies on the human being to see it.
We think that whether or not a team gets a point should not depend on the angle and distance of the referee.
We also think that it allows good referees to maintain their integrity in situations where the fans might be yelling oh no well like we really think this is crooked this is a really easy way in which you can check against that and allow referees to say look I'm not lying like clearly and we think that casting doubt on a referee's call is a really easy way to take away the like integrity of that team or that referee and so we think that creating mechanisms that can check fans against like good referees and make sure that no one is like being is like ruining someone's reputation for no reason is really positive.
But we also think that it provides a meaningful check against bad referees because bad referees either because they have poor eyesight or because they're like they're crooked or because they're biased against a team exist and this makes sure that they can't get away with making calls that impact the game during their time as referees and so we think that it's like very positive when you have a failsafe metric that like allows us to eliminate human error.
For these reasons, proud to propose.