The motion for today's debate is that we should ban homeschooling.
Two main areas of clash: first, on how it doesn't prepare students academically.
Recognize that homeschooling has a very low barrier for teacher quality.
It's essentially just someone saying like, " look, I'm qualified ", and passing a short online test that they could have faked in a million ways given that the internet exists.
This means that there's no way of ensuring that parents are actually prepared or allocating the correct amount of time in which they can teach their child everything that is necessary in school.
It also means that there's no actual oversight once the process has started.
So, even if you think that there's some kind of meaningful way in which we ensure that parents are initially prepared, it doesn't it means that like once things get busy and they have lives and jobs, they are very likely to get lax.
There's also no oversight against the students.
So even if parents are doing everything right, we think it's infinitely easy to slack off when your parents are gone for multiple hours of a day because they have a job than in a world in which your in school during that time and teachers oversee you for you.
We also think there are just like empirically too many subjects for one parent to be good at all of them.
Like students end up underdeveloped in specifics spheres, which is really bad, because it means that they never match up to like the the students that are trained by individuals who are specifically trained in those fields.
So you're always going to have a worse education, even if your parent is the best homeschooler in the world.
It this is bad on two levels.
First, it means that colleges are going to take your application less seriously.
Whenever they get a homeschooling application, they take it to mean that you are someone who is less prepared than your other people because, let's face it, you are, but second, because you are necessarily a risk that they have to take.
Even if they trust your resume and trust that you've done all the work, there's no way for them to guarantee it in the same way that they can guarantee it of someone who went to a regular school.
It also means that you're just going to physically be less prepared for tough classes than your counterparts who have been practicing with incredibly structured homework for the entire of their high school career.
It also lets religious people be incredibly oppressive of their children.
We think that religion, although something that can be empowering, is something that ought not be enforced upon young people the way that it is, where they are forced to grow up in religious environments and are never provided an alternative.
We think going to secular schools is necessarily something that shows children that there is a different way of living, that they may choose if they so want to.
We think that what religious people do is that they manipulate science and teach only creationism, which necessarily forces individuals into a religion and misinforms them about the way the world actually works.
Our second area of clash is about how it doesn't prepare students socially.
Recognize that school's important not just academically, but also because it teaches students social norms and behaviours that allow them to function in the real world.
Recognize that you can be the smartest person in the world, but if you don't know how to personally interact with someone or like process those ideas and give them to someone else, it doesn't matter how smart you are, because all of that information just gets trapped up inside you and never projected onto the outside world or meaningfully used in a real way.
We think insofar as the rest of your life is going to be interacting with other people, working on group projects, being in a professional environment, you need to have these kinds of skills, and it is bad that homeschooling does not provide you with them.
First, let's think about this on a social level.
If I don't go and interact with individuals my own age on a day-to-day basis, I will lever learn how to communicate with them or how those power dynamic work.
And so we think it's really bad when you're then released into college or the real world where you have to do this on a daily level, but you never have those heuristics.
But second, we think the real world is one in which you interact with teachers and other professionals.
Recognize that your future professors and bosses won't be your parents, and you need to know how to interact with authority that doesn't involve just making puppy dog eyes and begging your mother.
We think that this also involves like very simple skills, right?
Like knowing how to write a professional email, setting up a resume, these are things that often don't get taught in homeschooling because they're not seen as fundamental like skills in the same way that high school naturally develops them, just because you use them a lot.
For these reasons, proud to propose.