We should increase local government.
Our model for this is really simple: we just think that you should have larger local governments with more power over regional law and more developed branches and departments.
So, essentially, we just want a lot more money to be going into local law as opposed to federal law, so maybe decrease your federal taxes, put a lot of that money into local governments, and then allow those governments to have more control over the region, up but like clearly maintain similar democratic like checkpoints and similar democratic balances.
Like we don't think this just becomes autocracy, we think we're still governed by democratic principles.
Two main arguments, first on providing personalized government.
Regions within a country tend to differ wildly from each other in their political beliefs and needs.
This is the difference between going from one part of new york to the next, where maybe new york city is like crazy liberal and has all of these needs for like large infrastructure and a lot of like welfare development but versus you go somewhere that's a lot more rural, like northeastern new york, and you end up in areas with a lot of farm country and a lot of farmers who need a completely different treatment than large cities.
And this is like ridiculously common, it's just not new york state.
This happens in states like pennsylvania, in western states, and southern states where you might have city centers right next door to these large, rural, sprawling grounds.
And the problem becomes that when you craft policies higher up than local government, those policies and those federal actions miss the nuance of individual regions and populations, which makes broad policy often inapplicable or not in line with the desires of large swaths of the population.
Democracy is about being representative of the needs of the substituents.
Having more local government is a way to create smaller pockets of democracy that can cater to the areas they have control over, and it means you'll be more representative of the people without coming at the cost of others, because in the status quo, these kinds of interests tend to directly clash.
Like, passing large welfare support oftentimes hurts rural farmers and hurts those areas a lot more than it helps them, because it comes from the money that would have been used maybe for like farming subsidies, and those things trade off.
But when you give that power to local governments and they can more have more choice over how they spend that money, then those kinds of divisions are infinitely less likely to happen, because now you can actually just have regionally dependent like good social policy.
Our second argument is about creating public participation and enthusiasm.
It's a lot easier to become apathetic about the government and its actions if the government is far away and impersonal.
Often, this is what happens in the status quo, because citizens are so distant from the federal government that that controls the majority of their lives that they don't feel like what they do makes a difference in it, and they don't participate on in the government, and they grew disillusioned.
This is what happens when you have like people who are massively affected by healthcare reform, but they feel like they can't actually do anything about it or act in any way, because their vote seems too small, and no one wants to listen, and washington DC might be hours and hours away and just this figment of the imagination, essentially.
And we think that when you personalize that government, when you bring them closer, you can see the impacts of your area's political voices.
You feel more listened to and understood by the government, so you're more likely to participate in it more.
We also just think that you're more likely to have more transparency with larger local governments just because the closeness is more real, and you can have like more direct accountability through your vote because your actual regions selects them, so there's less degrees of separation than you have in the status quo with like everything being in DC and the vote being made up of like literally billions of people versus like maybe it's your area and your local area, and that's made up of like a couple thousand people, and that's more likely to be better for you, which we think is very good.
So at the end of the day, we just think this is the best way in which to both represent the desires of the people and get people more engaged in their government and saying their desires more, both of which are just good for democracy.
Proud to propose.