Don't encourage self employment.
Tim spends a while ragging on how automation is taking over jobs so self employment should be the response but doesn't explain the logic between the two being connected and we just think these two things aren't related at all.
Automation is equally likely to take over jobs that are self employed versus those that aren't because the services that are provided by those that are self employed are often really similar services to the kinds that are provided by large corporations.
Whether it's the production of a good or the offering of something like therapy or massage or like any number of other things.
Like the sectors that are going to get swept up by automation don't care if you're self employed or not, they're going to replace both.
Moreover as automation takes over some sectors other sectors open up.
So sure you're not going to have truck drivers as often but now you have more customer service reps, more engineering, all of these other things.
Unless what niche tim is filling with self employment, it's really unclear what niche tim is filling with self employment since self employed individuals, as I told you, provide similar services to that of corporate corporate ones.
So automation will take over both.
We think a lot of people come up with the idea of self employment on their own if that is something that is right for them.
This means that they're these are people who are already having an idea and recognizing that they are the best person to fulfill it.
We think that outside of those people it's bad to encourage individuals before they have had those ideas independently, because it makes direction-less self employment much more likely.
IE people will decide that they're going to be self employed but won't have a good idea of how, ultimately leading them to failure.
We have two main arguments, first on why it's risky.
The majority of of individuals will not succeed being self employed.
Being self employed requires a lot of self control, budgeting, scheduling, strong innovative and creative skills.
Encouraging it is thus a bad idea because you're essentially setting people up to fail because majority of people don't have these characteristics or at least not strongly enough to manage themselves.
All of tim's impacts about how there will be more innovation only function when people being self employed are being productive.
We think those people are likely to be self employed either way since there personally driven and know they have found a niche.
Sure, you might have your like it might be hard to work for someone else, like there might be negatives to that but we think that when you're self employed, because you're going to depend on the consumer base rather than on your boss this is actually really bad in a lot of ways as well.
Because when you work for someone else you get the same paycheck regardless of how business is going for the majority of jobs whereas when you're self employed if business is going poorly you're dumb out of luck.
We have to recognize that tim is massively sugar coating how self employment plays out and what the risks actually look like.
Because he pretends that you're automatically going to have this great life where you get to do all of these things and control everything.
But that requires your idea to be successful, which a really small percentage of groups actually are.
Our second argument is that it is lower reward.
First self employment doesn't usually pay well.
Like tim talks a while about how you're going to choose your income but he's forgetting that a lot of the time startups don't actually make money for the first couple of years that they're afloat so turning a profit actually takes a massive amount of up front investment and also a massive amount of self control, because you have to be willing to bite the costs of the start up.
Like you're the one who's going to be skipping meals and you're the one who's going to not be able to afford things for a while.
You're also going to paying all the management costs.
If anything goes wrong that's also on you.
So the idea that you're just going to be stinkin rich because you get to pay your own salary forgets that you also have to be responsible for the entire company.
Moreover, you don't get any of the benefits that you get from holding a job.
You don't have over time you don't get insurance, there isn't a pension plan and this places a massive burden on you as the person who is self employed since you have to provide and budget all of these things for yourself.
We think a lot of people simply aren't prepared or in a place where they're likely to do these management things effectively.
Proud to oppose.