Opposition agrees that stem cell research is good, but government hasn't proven that it is so good, that it ought be subsidized by government money.
All opposition advocates for is that research continues at its own pace, without extra subsidization.
We don't think that there need to be any extra regulations, we don't think that there is anything like so unethical, that it ought be banned.
We think only that, because it is so like it ought not be subsidized by extra government money.
With this, two many areas of clash, the first on when we think it is okay to subsidize.
Because, recognize that subsidization comes at at a real cost to society.
Specifically, this money has to come from somewhere, and often times it comes from cutting things like social programs, raising taxes a little bit, taxing corporations an extra amount.
These kinds of things actively work against our economy, and cause damage elsewhere.
So, the only time we think it is justified to subsidize through government money is when you are going to solve an immediate problem, that is bigger than the problem you're creating, and the harms that you are causing by taking money out of the economy.
We think what this means is that there needs to be a demonstrated need, but we don't think that government has demonstrated a need to rush embryonic stem cell research.
We think that people are getting sick and dying at the same rates, and even though it is sad that they are getting sick and dying, these things are generally have generally been managed in the past, without like without research.
And, we think that you need to justify the harms that some people will suffer, when their programs are cut, or their taxes are raised, by more than just saying: there's a potential, that some people are going to get better, or we can develop treatments.
We think that another criteria of subsidization ought be that this is a solution, that is actually going to work.
We think that the government cannot predict whether or not research is going to be successful, especially given the way that science works.
And the discoveries along the way, that could prove that this money is actually completely useless in the long term.
We think that, because there are real problems in society that need to be solved, and we know that their solutions can be solved through monetary funding, we think that you should instead focus on spending money, in ways that we know it is going to be functional, because of the fact that it is because of the fact, that you are like coming at a cost from other areas.
So, at the point that like we should only spend government money on certain outcomes, we don't think that something as intangible as research can guarantee that.
Our second area of clash has to do with embryonic research specifically being obsolete.
We think that there has been a recent discovery of induced pluripotent stem cells, which are basically adult stem cells, that can be reduced back to their pluripotent status, through an amount of scientific maneuvering.
These cells have the same abilities as embryonic stem cells, without the ethical concerns, and without any of the external problems that they might cause, without having to like repeatedly use embryos for them.
What this means is that what they're doing is wasting money on a on an outdated method, that causes a lot of political ill will.
We think that you shouldn't be doing this, because in the end, even even if we don't think that it is unethical, and embryonic embryos aren't actually people deserving of rights, there are people in the political circles who do, and these people, first, have votes, but second, oftentimes are politicians who have some sort of ability within the political realm.
What this means, is that you are wasting capital and wasting this money, when there is a way to actually subsidize research, that doesn't cause dissent, and doesn't cause, like, clamor within our political system, that, later on, costs us other programs or other beneficial things.
For these reasons proud to oppose.