We should ban fishing.
I think the important thing to note is that we're not banning just like " father son go out to fish ", rather we are talking specifically about commercial fishing, and we would require licenses for other types of non-commercial fishing.
So, your father and son can still go out to fish after your father has completed the appropriate license and certification and has agreed to not fish in areas that have species that are likely to be going towards extinction or anything similar.
With that, three main areas of clash: first, on overfishing.
Recognize that we are going through a period of time in which we are overfishing the waters and the oceans more than we ever have before.
Populations that we rely on for food, but more importantly that the ocean relies on for consistent ecosystems, are near extinct in the status quo that have never, ever, ever been extinct in the past.
This impacting on the population of fish is very bad.
For example, the tuna, which is a common staple in a lot of different diets but is especially fished in japan, is almost extinct right now of many different breeds and very difficult to find, which drives the price of tuna up.
This is bad not just because this means no more food or very expensive food for us, but it also does things like impact the diversity in those waters in the ocean.
This first we think that we value diversity just for its sake, because we think having different species is good, but more than this, we think that affecting the way that this interacts with food chains and the way that this interacts with the ecosystem is devastating for the area, devastating for like the ocean's broad hole and the way that they interact but just bad for the world as like a moral harm.
This is especially bad because many of the fish don't even get eaten, rather they're caught, they're killed, and they are thrown back into the water, because they are not good for human consumption and or they just never got bought because there are there're too many fish in the market.
We think that this these nets also often catch animals outside of the target population that we're talking about so, very often, even though this net is out for like, say, crab or lobster, or maybe you're trying to catch tuna, you're likely to catch other fish as well.
And because this is commercial fishing, so large amounts of fish all at once, it's very rare that people sift through every single net to try and release back into the waters the ones that they don't want.
So it oftentimes hurts other populations.
Our second area of clash is about pollution.
Because the large fishing vessels that do things like exude waste gases into the ocean, dump trash and other waste back in the ocean, and also interact with the land docks and fisheries that exist on land, but oftentimes let their waste out into the water, are incredibly bad for the environment.
It pollutes the ocean water which kills fish and other ocean environments.
This is really bad because things like the coral reef, which is dying out through due to a combination of pollution and overfishing, becomes something that we can never look at again.
But also because there are beings that live there that we think we value the life of.
Our third area of clash, though, is about negative externalities.
Because recognize that fish participate in food chains, which I've mentioned a couple of times before, and it impacts the ecosystem when you mess the food chain equilibria.
So say that you have plankton which get eaten by the fish of interest, we'll say tuna for now, which get eaten by a certain type of shark type.
When you eliminate the fish of interest due to overfishing, you increase the population of plankton and decrease the population of shark types that you're talking about.
This affects a million other chains that these species are part of, not just the fish of interest, but also now the increased population of plnkton, the decreased population of shark.
This is really bad because it affects other population and further destroys ocean systems, but this is also bad because things like boats and other parts tend to hurt other sea life.
For example, you'll have large sea turtles that are often the victim of boat propellers that suck them in and kill them.
Insofar as these are all beings that probably have some claim to live in the areas that they live before humans decided to invade, kill them off, and use them for food commercially, we think that you ought ban fishing.
Proud to propose.