What government doesn't seem to realize is that you don't abolish an entire system just because a component is broken.
Sure, sometimes boarding schools have abuses, bad teachers or bullying kids, but you don't dismantle the entire system because of a few instances, rather you focus on increasing oversight and and disincentivizing bad behavior.
So and we think that at the point that we both acknowledge that very oftentimes boarding schools are used by more wealthy people, they definitely have the resources to allocate to fix these kinds of problems.
With that, two main areas of clash.
First, we want to examine what kind of parents actually send their kids to boarding schools, because we both agree that these people tend to be very wealthy in regards to money.
What we posit is that they often tend to not have very much time.
So, if anything, a lot of the time these students get more individualized attention at school than at home.
Moreover though, we think that just taking away the option for sending these children to a boarding school doesn't change the temperament of a parent.
So parents who are okay with having their child have so little exposure to them that they were willing to send them to boarding school are still likely to give them very little exposure when they're at home, so we think it's actually better oftentimes for these kids to go to boarding school.
More than this, we think that we think that even if it is a little bit marginally better for kids to be at home than at boarding school, we don't think that it is so much better that it justifies intervention on the part of the state, because we think that we give parents a right to raise your child how they see fit.
And even though parents might choose to do very damaging things, for example, we don't require parents to take their children to extracurriculars, we don't ban them from moving every year, even though switching schools very often is bad for children.
We think that, as such, boarding schools are included underneath that umbrella.
So even though it might be bad for a kid, it's still not something that is meaningfully like meaningfully so bad that we intervene on the part of the parent.
We also think that oftentimes boarding school are an option when you personally know that you can't handle that child.
So a lot of the time disciplinary boarding schools use if you have someone who's very like very undisciplined or like very bad in terms of behavior, or you might send a child to boarding school when you know that they're going to provide a better education than what you provide at home, which is still within your right.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's good for society.
Usually what happens is that people who send their children to boarding schools are still paying taxes for the local schools, but at least their children aren't in school sucking up those resources.
We think that what this does is mean that there's more focus on other kids, because essentially what these type of parents do is if their child goes to public school, they're constantly pestering the teacher, constantly explaining why their child deserves more attention, so we think on our side of the house, you're allowing these teachers to spread out their attention over those who are less privileged than this kid who gets to gets sent to private school.
Like the issue is that drew isn't going to get rid of elitism.
Parents will always find other ways to separate their kids.
We think this takes the form of intensive trapping tracking programs, where those who have more money or have are more privileged, get put into more intensive classes or honors classes, while those who are less privilege oftentimes gets stuck in lower level classes and don't get into college as often.
So we think that as far as options go, boarding schools are less damaging to the rest of society, because even if these individual children are growing up feeling more elitist, we think this would happen on government side of the house too, at least their elitism is not actively harming the students who are left behind in public schools.
We think that another example of this might be just general gentrification of a public school.
So if you have a few very rich children in the school, you're going to have more expensive field trips that maybe other people can't afford, things like that.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.