Don't privatize postal services.
Tim rails on and on about how postal services are a waste of government money, but doesn't actually prove that it's a bad thing that this is where money goes.
Sure there are other private companies that have taken over a lot of shipping, but those private companies aren't comprehensive insofar as we continue to use the USPS.
Recognize that the difference between these private companies and USPS is that these private companies have no obligation to provide to the areas in which they don't make a profit off of those provisions.
Whereas USPS will provide the same rates regardless of the region and will make sure to service those regions regardless of how hard they are to reach.
And this is actually really important as we'll tell you in our first independent point, but also is just a reason for why as even if there are a million private companies who take over ninety percent of these kinds of markets, we still think it's important to keep the USPS to take care of those other ten percent that aren't getting access.
We can have things that make mail more efficient like thinning out postal offices in low population density or letter dense areas, but the answer isn't privatizing it entirely, just making things more spotty or looking at places where the usage is really low and like maybe making sure that you're not having as large of a postal center there.
Three main arguments, first on maintaining egalitarian service.
The government can't just decide that it won't deliver mail to specific areas or that certain groups of people won't provide them with enough profit the way that private corporations can.
Because if the government did that there would be massive backlash about it not fulfilling its roles and obligations.
Corporations have no such obligation to the american people as a whole, only to profit and their shareholders.
This means that if it is unprofitable to deliver mail to a certain area or a certain population, they simply won't do it.
Rural areas are likely to carry the brunt of this which is really bad because they also happen to be areas that use the postal service most because the other private company options are often lacking and because the type of people who live there tend to be people who might be more of a fan of snail mail like older people or people who are less technologically savvy.
Delivering mail shouldn't be about turning a profit.
It's a valuable public service that allows the billions of people within a country to maintain connection with each other and to receive items they need from each other.
The postal service delivers forty percent of the world's cards and letters, so even though snail mail is less common now, it's still an important part of many people's lives.
And even if tim personally doesn't use snail mail to communicate, it's very clear that plenty of people do.
Our second argument is that it is expensive to switch.
In order to even start the privatization process, the US would have to make the postal service appear to be competitive and have profitability potential.
This would require a lot of capital investment from the government to do so, which we think is a waste of money at the point that you're only fluffing it up in order to sell it away.
It would also require a deregulation of the postal service which should be opposed by most parties and contribute to congressional gridlock as well.
Our third argument is about jobs.
We think that backlash against the loss of postal service funding is generally a good thing, even though tim seems to disagree.
It means that we are valuing the contribution to the economy even if it is a little bit artificial.
Government provides good benefits and a living wage to thousands of employees.
Where you were you to privatize the system, it would result in tons of jobs lost and likely lower wages and we think that it's actually a good thing to continue to pour some tax money into this if it means you're providing livable wage, providing good benefits to so many employees who are working for the government in this capacity.
Proud to oppose.