The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish open primaries.
What we would do instead are the alternative which are technically closed primaries in which individual parties have run-off elections before they select the final person who will go on to be the candidate in the general election.
Three main arguments first on why it is less democratic.
In the case of open primaries, the party has to choose the candidate before the open primaries because there's no time to give physical support if everything is open.
Right like we think that currently the way that it works is that parties have the entirety of closed primary set aside and see what the people's opinion is on who the most qualified candidate is.
Then once they have that official candidate democratically elected they shoot them they put all of this money, all of this advertising, all of this political support behind them and send them up the ladder to the general election.
But the difference is that it occurs after the people have already spoken.
When you go straight to the general election like using using open primaries without this little preliminary amount of time, you don't ever take into account the individual vote and individual populations which means you're effectively skewing the public the point that you're saying this is who the party endorses either way now your choice is to support him or to not.
It also means that they get a lot more conflicting rhetoric on this individual insofar as during closed primaries parties can say can explain why they think that certain candidates might be less qualified.
However, once they're chosen parties can't say the negatives anymore and so it is much more likely that individuals are going to be receiving a much more skewed version of that candidate in the first place.
We think that fundamentally, individuals deserve to be selecting their candidate at every step of the process.
That it's a problem if you're allowing the the political parties so much influence without any kind of say from the people who are actually going to be living under this person's rule more off.
We prefer for the people to be able to speak first then the party can talk.
Our second area of clash is why open primaries discourage many candidates running.
In a bipartisan system every candidate in a like given to a certain party and going into the general election representing a certain party, represents a split in the vote.
It means the parties will purposefully discourage them because they don't want to split the population between.
Imagine a world in which hillary clinton and bernie sanders ran side by side and because so many democrats supported bernie they would have this massive split vote that would prevent hillary from ever getting a majority.
Even though like in this counter factual donald trump would certainly have the win insofar as the democrats had divided their vote between two candidates but the republicans were were like solidly only behind one.
In fact, the funny part is that this is exactly the reason that bernie didn't run as an independent.
We think that political parties recognize the incentive structures and recognize the institutional structures that will influence who wins at the end and given that no one likes to lose it is incredibly likely that they will discourage any other candidates from running regardless of whether or not they might be a better idea based on the majority decisions of their own party.
It means you never get a chance for an independent or any kind of or anyone who isn't someone from the majority party to win an election or even someone who might be a minor candidate from the majority party to win an election.
We think that all of these candidates deserve an equal chance rather than just someone who seems to be the most optically preferred having the largest chance in in being pushed straight to the straight to the open primary.
At least in the closed primary system we give minority candidates a chance to show their party that they're capable of riling in the votes.
Our third area of clash branches off of this and that it's about destroying the multi-party system.
Given that only two people can run in the general election in a in an open party system, then at most you're going to have two parties ever being represented regardless of which two parties they are.
This is most impactful at the state level where it's actually quite common for independents to run and often win in open in close primaries but now you can't because independent parties depend on three on on the like on the potential of three candidates.
While the main parties are never going to give up their power slots to lower ones so it will always be republican versus democrat.
For these reasons, proud to propose.