We don't think that people should further exploit sustainable energy.
So what this looks like is not promoting programs that look into wind energy, not subsidizing building a power plants, and just letting things in the market naturally solve for itself.
Three main areas of of clash.
The first, on why at this point quality is much important than quantity of time.
Recognize that it's already too late to solve the impacts of global warming.
Scientists have said that we're basically doomed and all we can do is mitigate harms in the short term.
What this means is that it's time to throw money behind space travel and mitigatory technology that can protect countries and protect states from being swept over by mass hurricanes such as what we currently see in the tropical islands, in florida, and in texas.
At the end of the day, if your days are limited you might as well like the ones that you have left.
We don't think that you should force people to limit the services given, that there's nothing to limit them for because there's a lot of cut backs that occur when we start exporting sustainable energy.
It basically requires it basically requires individuals to accept that it's unlikely that they will always have power.
To accept that they're going to have less powerful devices etcetera.
And this is all in like into except that like their taxes go up and things like that and so we just think that you can't ask people to sacrifice for a future that doesn't exist.
Our secondary of clash is why sustainable energy isn't predictable.
A lot of the time there is no wind and there is no sun and now you've built all of this technology up so that it can sit in an empty field and not work.
We think that at the end of the day people need consistency in terms of their energy sources because we live very active life lives that like require us to have access to energy at all times.
Our third independent point is about economics.
The oil and gas industry is massive.
It is one of the largest employers within any given state.
It has really large taxes on it so anytime that there's a new drilling project it means that there's a fairly large influx of money into the government and getting and when you exploit sustainable energy you necessarily lower the support and lower the need for oil companies and oil corporations.
This leads to incredibly bad layoffs.
People end up jobless which is really bad because they won't be able to spend money and interact with the economy but also because they end up increasing their reliance on social systems and the government.
If I stop making enough money to support myself I oftentimes have to rely more on things like welfare or medicaid which directly comes out of other taxpayers pockets and is actually worse, I think, for society writ large because now even more people have less money to take care of themselves.
We also just think that it leads to less money for the government.
It means you can't put as much money into the budget so you probably can't have as many social services or as much your military spending, however, it is very rare that military spending is the one that gets cut.
Very likely that social services are the first to disappear whenever you don't have as much money going into the government.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.