Don't further exploit wind turbines.
Three main areas of clash, first on the lack of reliability.
Recognize that wind energy fluctuates dramatically from day to day, depending on the weather, temperature and region.
Like, drew can that we're going to exist in the regions that have a lot of wind but the problem is that even those areas fluctuate depending on the day and depending on the climate change that is going on in the status quo, so it's not even reliable in that regard.
The most important criteria of energy source is that it must be consistent.
Because people are so dependent on it for the day to day existences.
This is especially true if you are running critical gear off of it.
Like anything ranging from electric fences for your cattle to life support equipment in hospitals.
These are things that you simply cannot be relying for on batteries.
And things that are much much too important to like have that kind of area of risk.
We think at the end of the day exploiting one kind of form of energy is always going to come at the cost of exploiting others.
So even if drew wants to talk about how this is just going to trade off with gas and oil, we know the real thing it's likely to trade off is with other green energy sources that are its main competition, given that gas and oil have such a large first mover advantage.
We think the problem on their side of the house is that during the time that we are pouring all this effort into wind energy that isn't reliable and isn't the best form we could have been putting that into any number of other alternatives.
Our second area of clash is about the environmental impact.
First recognize that wind turbines kill like much of the areas local like sky fauna.
So like birds, bats, essentially anything that flies is then those turbines pose a risk to it.
This is really bad for the ecological pyramid.
Birds eat eat everything from bugs to rotting compounds to small animals.
Which means that when you take out a chunk of the population you are necessarily messing with the equilibrium of the rest of the environment.
We think that generally it is bad when when humans mess with the way that the ecology of a certain area works.
And we think that wind turbines are really good example of humans prioritizing their own energy needs in ways that they could be doing it in a different way anyway, above the needs of the the area around them.
But second it's also just the case that a lot of the time these birds happen to be in danger.
Specific areas have large populations of specific types of endangered birds.
So if I live in a part of the united states that has a lot of eagles and suddenly a large chunk of them are flying into wind turbines we think that this is harming a population that is already in danger.
But second under this I want to talk about deforestation.
Because we like to talk about how beautifully green wind turbines are but we forget that they come at the cost of acres and acres and acres of land.
This means that the trees that previously kept the topsoil in place there are no longer there, which makes it much easier for that to get washed off.
It means that you are no that you are now literally stripping animals of their homes and unseating millions of creatures, which messes with the ecology, even if you don't care about the birds, in a much more large way.
It pushes those animals into urban areas which is bad both for the humans and for the animals that get stuck with it.
We think at the point that this comes at such an environmental costs we don't think it's worth it, especially when we have many alternatives.
Our third area clash is just examining the trade off.
We have alternatives that are more reliable, that are cheaper and that are environmentally friendly.
Energy from the sun, geothermal energy, nuclear energy, all of that can be used to power much larger swathes of land for a much cheaper price, both environmentally and monetarily.
Recognize that wind turbines also cost a lot of money.
Like they are difficult to install, it's a technology that is constantly changing and eroding so you have to switch them out and it creates unusable land both for the public and for the animals that already lived there.
It's just not worth it.
Let's exploit something else.
Proud to oppose.