The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish marriage.
The model for this is that we wouldn't have any kind of governmental recognition of marriage or any kind of perks associated so currently there are a lot of tax benefits to being married to a second person we would remove those.
You'd still be able to provide tax benefits if you so if a couple has children and you would still allow religious institutions to have ceremonies that look like marriage you just wouldn't have a state institution that sent than says you are officially married.
To my nearest clash the first on why marriage is bad.
First recognize that marriage promotes patriarchal structures.
It was originally created as a religious institution.
So first it's unclear why this should be involved in a like why our government should be involved in this in the first place.
But it's also meant to essentially be a transfer of goods IE the woman to an internal kind of bond internal kind of bond to this man who will now be the person who owns her and essentially like creates this family that she must then take care of and have a house that she must like take care of.
We think that at the point that this is the historical significance of this tradition and it still carries the majority of these norms IE we still have situations in which when people get married they are often stereotyped and expected in the case of the woman to be the one raising the children to be the one that is taking care of the house.
You then have the father giving away their daughter on their wedding day etcetera we don't think that it should be encouraged by the state.
We prefer a world in which you have as much freedom as possible for individual choice to take hold and having institutions that essentially bind the will of another person to another legally and end in and historically minimizes this freedom of choice and we prefer for it to not exist.
We also think that marriage is incredibly hetero normative and monogamy centered.
We barely got legislation across in the united states to allow gay people to get married.
Many countries still haven't done this because it is used so heavily as an institution that is only for those who are straight and monogamous.
The problem with this is that first there are no auditions for those who might be polygamists are polyamorous people.
This is a problem because if someone wishes to be with multiple people and still be able to raise a family there are currently very few avenues for them to do so but second because these kinds of institutions leave people out of important societal norms which is isolating and oftentimes leads to higher rates of depression or suicide in these groups of people in the first place.
There's also a it also creates a societal ideal.
The disk essentially unbeatable by the majority of people.
It causes us to look down on those who don't marry or have kids outside of a marriage or get divorced while saying that the only ones who are living like a actually good life are those who are within a marriage.
Look if marriage is your thing that's fine feel free to do so but we think that people can feel those strong connections that are associated with marriage without putting that title across it and if you're religious you can do so on both sides of the house.
Our second area of clash is why encouraging marriage through benefits is even worse.
Unlike through government association.
Legal restrictions and benefits mold society in that they mold the behavior of the millions of people that participate in it.
Marriage specifically creates incredibly harmful expectations.
It comes with a set of societal stereotypes and is seen as a transitional point in someone's life.
The point in which a woman starts to have children stops working.
At a point in which men are going to get bored make all the money and be unhappy but somehow still dominant.
We can't beat these stereotypes.
We we can in the status quo beat these stereotypes very slowly but the only way we can do so completely and quickly is if we break the institution that harbors them.
General expectation for marriage also occurs at a certain age and so it puts a lot of pressure on individual people to settle down which oftentimes prevents them from actually exploring or finding someone who they love verses someone who they are less afraid of being lonely with.
Marriage also traps people in incredibly problematic ways they should stay together out of love not because of cost or expectation divorce is incredibly expensive and oftentimes if someone left their job to raise children they no longer have a source of income.
And you also get trapped through an expectation.
It's a lot easier to leave a boyfriend or girlfriend but the society doesn't see it the same when you're with a husband and will look down you.
For these reasons proud to propose.