The motion for today's debate is that we should end mandatory retirement.
Two main reasons.
The first, that we think this is age based discrimination, and thus ought be ended for protective reasons.
We think that in the end, if you're a bad worker, the corporation is able to kick you out, because you are unproductive, or a nuisance in the office, or any number of other claims that they can make against you.
But there is nothing inherent about your age that means that you shouldn't be doing a job.
The comparative is this.
We think that if a seventy year old person is being just as productive as a twenty year old in the same position, the seventy year old one shouldn't be kicked out just because they are too old, as dictated by by the corporation or the state.
More than this though, we think this is comparative oftentimes to other kinds of characteristics that people get discriminated against.
We think that in the same way that people cannot control their aging, people also cannot control their gender, and if we're protecting for things like race and gender discrimination in the workplace, you should also be protecting for things like age based discrimination.
But on a deeper level, we think this is personally important as well.
We think that in the end, you as an individual know better than any corporation what you are capable of and what is best for you.
If they are doing this for reasons of you being too old, we think this is unjust paternalization, because they are making assumptions about your capabilities based purely on your age without considering other factors.
We think in the same way that pregnant women are different from each other in regards to the productivity that they can do, or how hard like how hard they can work, in the same way that pregnancy affects every single person differently, age does too.
Just because one seventy year old is, quote unquote, too old to work, actually cannot work anymore because of age related side effects, other seventy year olds are not the same.
We think that you can evaluate when you need to step down yourself, but you can also evaluate your current monetary need better than anyone else can.
We think it's incredibly problematic when corporations can dismiss people for being too old in times when those people are likely to need money most.
We think that retirement plans oftentimes don't compensate people very well, and if you are dismissed from a fairly high paying job, you're always going to be seeing a decrease in standard of living as well.
This is problematic, because a lot of the time people have their expenditures planned out, but also as you get older you often get sicker or have other expenditures that you also have to take care of, that younger people don't.
Things like more often do you have to go to the hospital and get checkups, especially if you're a woman, things like breast cancer checkups, for men, things like prostate cancer checkups, all of these things don't start until you are much older.
Second area of clash has to do with why we don't think this is going to be very bad for the like we don't think that the other side's reasons are like particularly justified, and more so, we think there are often upsides pragmatically to why this is good.
We think that a lot of what the other side is going to say is oh no, but young people need to get these jobs and old people are keeping them up.
Two responses.
First, we think there is no reason why young people deserve that job more than you, if you have a high level of productivity and they are unlikely to outwork you.
More than this though, we think that oftentimes these are in these are these are in situations where these young people are going to be able to find a different job but you are going to be stuck in retirement.
What this means is that we ought value older people in these situations more than youth.
More than this though, we think that in a world, especially certain states such as the united states, where the amount of old people are growing much much faster than the amount of young people replacing them, we think decreasing the number of dependents is incredibly important both for individual youth and also for the system at large.
We think that a lot of the time the social security system just isn't strong enough to bear the weight of people who are getting older fairly quickly, and thus rely and thus relying on the system, not for reasons of their own incapability, but rather for reasons of why the corporation wants them out based on their age.
Decreasing dependence is good because it means that there are less strains on the social security system, which means that in the future there will be more money there for those who will get older later.
For these reasons, proud to propose.