The motion for today's debate is that we should increase racial profiling in airports.
What we mean by this is that we would more often institute checks for people who are racially profiled to commit more attacks or more likely to commit attacks, and we would like generally increase these kinds of security measures in airports.
Two main areas of clash: first, on maximizing efficiency.
It is just true that terror organizations originate mostly in the middle east.
Whether we're talking about al-qaeda or isis or isil, all of them come from around the same like arabic and muslim nations that are in the middle east, and generally have people of darker skin tone who have like specific racial characteristics.
What this means is that most terrorists are also going to be from those same regions and have those same middle eastern features.
So we think that the most efficient way to catch terrorists is to do so through racial profiling, given that it is very unlikely that someone who doesn't fit those characteristics would be a terrorist, because that's just not where they would get the exposure from these kinds of organizations.
So we actually think that airports are going to stop are potentially going to stop more attacks through profiling than if they stop it, and especially now, we think that you need to increase it.
We also think that if organizations know that their members are likely to get stopped, they're likely to stop sending them in.
And we think this is really good, because we would prefer a world in which we didn't have to have these searches, because these terrorists just didn't exist in our airports.
And we think that if you send the message that these searches are happening, then they're less likely to do so because they're afraid of getting caught.
Our second area of clash is why the recent increase in attacks requires us to up the amount of racial profiling.
First, recognize that there have been a lot of recent attacks all over europe.
There have been a couple in france.
There's been increased unsettlement within the middle east itself, and we think that because of this, you need to increase security and be more vigilant in order to prevent these attacks from circulating back into the united states, as we think they probably want to.
We also think that when you whenever we experience a high volume of attacks, conservatives tend to push for very harsh race politics and race policy, so they're going to push for anti-immigration, they're going to push to like have more stop and frisk, like things like that.
And so we think that one of the ways to really easily satisfy conservatives and prevent them from being legally harsh in other spheres is to do things like increase racial profiling, because then you can say, " look, we're doing something about it. "
They can go back to like politicians can go back to their constituency and be like, " look, we're like catching all of them.
We're making sure they can't get into our country in the first place or get on our planes, " and so they're unlikely to be as awful through like legislating what countries can let immigrants in, things like that.
We also think that as bad as it seems, a lot of people are a little bit racist, and as such, it just makes them feel a lot safer to see someone who looks middle eastern stopped at the airport.
Like it makes them feel like the government is doing something, and it means they are less likely to get violent or unrestful in other ways.
Like we would prefer that the airplane airport stopped the brown person than that that brown person got attacked later on by a white person who thinks that they're a threat.
And even though it is problematic that we have to pacify the alt-right in these kinds of ways, we think it's necessary to protect the long-term safety of these people.
Because at least if the airport checks you, no one on the plane can accuse you of having a bomb, once you've already been checked.
So, we actually think that on our side of the house, you pacify the right in a way that makes more liberal legislation more likely to occur or in the very least, less liberal legislation less likely to occur.
For these reasons, proud to propose.