Don't abolish capital punishment.
First I think we need to make it incredibly clear that we are okay with using this with raising the bar for when capital punishment can be used.
For example rather than doing this for like mid-tier to high-level offenses maybe we would say that only serial killers or like serial rapists like very very large crimes are going to have capital punishment enacted against them.
We're also okay with making sure that there are checks on whether or not that individual is innocent such as having like a having it be like a hundred percent confirmed evidence rather than any kind of just narrative-based or eyewitness-based evidence involved.
We think that when danny talks about the way that technology messes up he talks about a generation and a time that no longer exists.
So sure we used to have situations in which were willing to just take eyewitness accounts and that could define whether or not someone lived or died or we would do things like put innocent men in jail based on the based on the portraits that crime photographers would draw but these are no longer the times that we live in.
We think things like fingerprinting, the higher presence of video cameras, a lot of other things like that have made it so that there are ways for us to figure out whether or not someone committed a crime with almost if not perfect a hundred percent certainty.
Three main areas of clash, first about justice.
I think this is more of a philosophical justification for why this is okay because danny does a lot of talking about how human beings have a right to life and we have fundamental value but he forgets that the way that our society is constructed is by implicit contracts between individuals to follow the law that whatever government you live under has imposed.
And even if it is not the law that matters the impacts that your actions cause do.
Insofar as it is unfavorable to me if I am killed and it is unfavorable to someone else if they are killed, we prefer a world in which people don't kill each other.
It is just basic treat other people the way you want to be treated.
But when someone goes against that implicit contract, they will a world in which those rights never existed in the first place.
They say hey look it's okay for me to do it so it's okay in general to do it and we think that this is the situation in which now this individual owes a debt to society for what they took and that needs to be repaid.
We think at that point the appropriate punishment scales with the crime so if you are someone who took away the lives of many many many people we don't think it's enough to say spend your life in jail and we don't think that that would be just.
Second though, second under this though, citizen tax dollars have to then go to support that life in jail which we think is also incredibly unjust because if someone has taken away from you and hurt you it is unfair that you then have to put your own labor and your own money into supporting that individual.
So we think it's always preferable then that if someone deserves it for them to have capital punishment.
Our second area of clash is about victim rights and recognize that these are always going to be the most important thing because while the person who committed a crime has given up their rights, the victim has done no such thing.
In fact this is someone who deserves to be helped the most in these situations because they have been personally most harmed by it.
So we think that regardless of whether or not the criminal has rights, the victim's rights always outweigh theirs.
What this means is that I as someone who might have been a victim of this person's crime or if there's a like group of people who have been affected deserve to see the rightful punishment done.
It is important for things like closure but it is also important for us to see that society values the pain that we have received, otherwise there is a world in which we feel like society has undervaluedthis then we feel insecure with the our own presence and our own worth within the society that we live.
Our third area of clash is cost.
Look, there's always a potential for someone to get off on good behavior, for someone to escape from prison in the way that el chapo has many many times we think these kinds of things are necessary to be prevented.
Proud to oppose.