The motion for today's debate is that we should abandon giving international aid.
By we, we are referring to the united states government.
With that, three main areas of clash: first, on why governments have obligations to their citizens first.
First, recognize that the government inherently serves the citizens of that country for which they live under.
Why?
First, because the social contract exists via the taxes that people pay and via the rights that they give up to live underneath a government insofar as I have to actively make myself less free because I live under a system that takes control over me but promises me certain rights in return, then they have more of an obligation to me than to someone who does not pay into that same system.
But also, recognize that governments are an aggregation of citizens, and citizens not only have like the obligation to then represent themselves in it but also, given that citizens have the power to dismantle it, we think that they are first beholden to those who have the most control there.
Recognize also that there's necessarily a tradeoff between the resources that go to other countries and the ones that go to your own citizens, that money that went to any other country could have been spent on your own welfare systems, on food, it could lead it could make sure that public housing is available to those that don't have it within your own country.
Recognize that regardless of being a western liberal democracy and relatively wealthy, the US has plenty of problems even so.
There are thousands living in poverty.
We haven't solved police brutality.
There are many who are homeless and struggling to survive, like children are still starving on a regular basis.
Until these things are taken care of, we don't think that there exists a principled justification for overlooking the needs of your own citizens to go and take care of other people's citizens.
And so we actually think that there is no world in which it is actually like something that is okay for the government to go and give out international aid insofar as we haven't solved all of our own problems.
But second, we want to talk about cycles of dependence.
Because even if right now the united states can afford to give money to others, it is unsustainable into the long term.
Even strong western liberal democracies fall into hard times.
Like sometimes it's like your own impoverished like impoverished status that rises, or like the political will to give out money to other countries fades, like such as in the current status quo, where we have a lot of republicans owning a lot of our policies.
And when that happens, we think it's important that you haven't created cycles of dependence that would screw over the countries that have gotten used to receiving money from you.
Like recognize that at the end of that when developing countries receive money on a routine basis, they stop building new economic infrastructure because they don't need to worry about it, and so that money doesn't actually go to making them sustain themselves into the long term.
Rather, now they're relying on an unstable source and if that source dries up, then the circumstances of the citizens within that country get a lot worse very quickly insofar as they don't have any of the infrastructure needed to actually protect their citizens or guarantee them a certain amount of rights.
Our third area of clash is about why this is ineffective.
Recognize that money goes to governments that are often corrupt and and or to the bureaucracy that runs under them.
Like a lot of the time the money we send places are are is money that we do not control once it leaves our hands.
We don't really have a way of enforcing any kind of tied aid or anything like that, so a lot of the time it's just like this cash transfer or like food transfer that goes directly to the officials of that other country.
The problem is that if your country's officials are corrupt, all this does is enable the current corrupt regime.
So, even if some of that money trickles down, we don't care, because this corrupt regime gets to exist for longer.
But also, we think that a lot of the time all that happens is that like this money gets tied up in the bureaucracy, and the actual citizens don't actually get help, rather it's just another mansion for like the ruler or he pours more money into the military so they can oppress the citizens better.
Like I think the massive burden on side opposition is going to be to show us that this kind of aid can actually be effective in the majority of situations, and we don't think that they can.
For these reasons, proud to propose.