All we're advocating for on our side of the house is not to end affirmative action.
Three main areas of clash: first, about ensuring equality of access.
Because tim spends a while talking about how the only obligation of the government is to ensure equality of access, not equality of end points.
The problem is that he never actually shows us why affirmative action is not a method by which we ensure equality of access.
So, we're about to show you why but moreover, given that this was the way he structured his debate, we think that as long as we win on this point, we win the round, because we show you that if we are indeed fulfilling the government obligation, as tim provided that obligation, then we win under both frameworks.
So, recognize that a lot of the time, the way that affirmative action takes the form is by creating spots that allow you access into universities or into loans or into scholarships, and what these do is provide access, because otherwise you wouldn't have it.
The thing with people who are minorities, who are trying to get into college or trying into get into workplaces is that just by being the like associated with the group of people that they are associated with, they necessarily lower the lower the likelihood of them receiving the opportunity in question.
Loans are less likely to go out to people of color, because they're perceived in a biased manner as untrustworthy.
As such, oftentimes scholarships are a way by which you decrease that financial burden and allow them to have access regardless of their skin color.
This also applies with regard to admissions to jobs or colleges, because due to due to implicit racism and internal biases, a lot of the time we are just less likely to select a person of color as compared to an equally qualified candidate who happens to be white.
As long as on the other side of the house they are always going to have less people accessing these opportunities, then we then on our side of the house, then we're always going to win that round, because we allow these opportunities to exist in the first place.
Our second area of clash is about diversity as an inherent good.
Because recognize that have they have there have been tons of studies now that all say the same thing: having people from more diverse backgrounds creates more efficient systems.
This is true whether you're sitting in an office and you're or in like an inventor's area, where you're trying to innovate and make progress, insofar as it has been shown that people from diverse sets of backgrounds are likely to approach the same problems in very different manners.
So, whereas your room full of white harvard graduates are all going to get stuck at the same point in a problem, because they all experienced the same background, on our side of the house, you're going to have a much diverse group so when one when one person gets stuck on the problem, everyone else has a different way of viewing it and are much more likely to actually be able to solve it.
This is also true when we're talking about arguments or conversation.
We think better conversation occurs when people participating in that conversation are coming from a wide variety of backgrounds.
We also think it just leads to better social norms though.
Like a lot of the time, you end up with really dangerous echo chambers in areas without minority groups, because everyone there is able to share the same kind of conversation and like communicate with each other along the same wavelength, and they never have to widen their view sets.
So, you're actually going to have more oppressive systems created when people can just continue having the same racist ideal ideologies internally registered to them throughout the course of their lifetime, without anyone stopping them and saying, " but, look, this is problematic, " as a member of this group.
Contact theory also applies here.
We think the more people interact with members of different groups, the more likely they are going to find positive associations with them.
We also just think you end up having better politics.
It's really easy to vote against increasing welfare or social benefits when you're not meeting the families of people who are most affected by it, so and you don't have people saying like, " this is how my group was affected by it. "
Our third area of clash is about how this is self solving.
If the end of if the if this debate is about is about whether or not to end affirmative action now, we think at the point that affirmative action will end itself, given that it is directly tied to the statistics of how many people are going to be like doing things, etcetera, or like going into these spheres, we think that it's going to it's going to stop on its own when you have reached those numbers.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.