Blood donation should be mandatory.
What we mean by this is that of course you would still have things like religious exemptions for jehovah's witnesses that can't even receive blood or other demographics that like religiously feel passionate about this, and of course we wouldn't do things like take blood from individuals who are under who are minors without their consent, we think that this would more be something where after you reach age of adulthood, after your health has been certified, this just becomes part of like your yearly doctor's visit in which you also donate blood and we think that that's something that is really easy and minimally invasive and doesn't even take up an individual's time at the point that it can just be kind of integrated with the pre existing routine at the doctor's office.
Three main arguments, first on saving lives.
This is literally always going to be the most important because there are millions of people who suffer in the status quo for lack of blood.
And donating blood isn't something that is difficult or places an undue burden on the individual that does it rather the only thing that it literally does is save other people.
So I think that someone who doesn't donate blood is either making excuses for themselves or is actually just a selfish awful person who chooses not to help those surrounding them because they feel like they don't want to.
This is really problematic and we think we should get rid of a culture in which individuals choose to prioritize their own minor pleasure and comfort above the literal life of someone else.
So we think the first up to god is mandating blood donation.
This is especially important in emergency situations.
We are often lacking type o and other rarer blood types so what happens is that people who have a or b are oftentimes taken care of, but if you have type ab or if you have type o you're much more likely to not have enough blood to be sufficient.
And we think that when you have literally everybody donating blood because it's mandatory, you create a massive massive backup reservoir to make sure you never end up in a situation where there isn't enough blood.
This is becomes especially important in response to large crises like large attacks or large accidents, and we think that we live in a time in which just statistically those have gotten higher.
We're seeing more mass shootings on we're seeing more car accidents than previously, things like that.
So we think that this is just like a good thing to have.
Second argument is about justifying the right to mandate blood donation.
Recognize that donating blood isn't difficult or even painful the majority of the time.
And insofar as people benefit off of the state and other citizens constantly, whether it is through the fact that you receive some form of government assistance, whether it's because you drive on the roads that it provides or went to a public high school, things like that.
We think this is your way to contribute to the other half of that relationship which we think is really really important.
We also, as our third argument, think this creates a system of giving back.
I briefly mentioned this previously, where in the status quo we have this culture where it's okay to say: " because I am minorly discomforted by this, even though it has a much larger impact for someone else, I will choose not to help. "
And we see this when people choose not to volunteer even though they have extra time, and we see this when people choose not to give blood even though that is something that was really easy for them.
They are prioritizing their minor comfort above someone else's life.
And we think that when you start mandating this you change the culture surrounding it.
You see civic duty as something that is a responsibility, something that isn't optional.
And we think this has many benefits if it increases the empathy and the kind of like cohesiveness of your society which we think is good.
And it also just means that we question giving back less.
Like we stop making excuses in our minds for taking good deeds.
Proud to propose.