Don't adopt blasphemy laws.
Tim keeps talking about how all he's doing is extending libel laws so that we can counter lies against a religion but he doesn't actually say what a lie against religion looks like.
Does saying god doesn't exist count as a count as libel because theoretically anyone who believes that god exists thinks that statement is a lie?
We think that you can have hate speech laws that correct for people voicing stereotypes about muslims which is what tim tries to make this about without creating such a slippery slope regarding other criticisms of religion.
Two main arguments: first on protecting free speech.
Blasphemy is an action definitionally of free speech.
It's an individual expressing their preferences in a belief in believes in a way that needs to be protected to prevent government overstep and oppression in some of some members of society.
Moreover, in western liberal democracies having blasphemy laws directly contradicts the right to free speech that is encoded in the majority of constitutions.
Breaking the constitution at the foundation of a nation is really problematic because it breaks down the laws that people have come to expect.
Predictability in the government is really important for citizens because it maintains the relationship between the government and citizens that allows the two to mutually coexist and benefit each other.
When the government begins to behave in unpredictable manners that's when the citizens get really scared.
They start doing things like stockpiling money and weapons.
They start electing really weird politicians.
Like this is just when you get political unrest that doesn't benefit anybody.
Tim is worried about the personal quality of religion.
We just don't think it's that important as everyone else's free speech.
We also don't think this is a good standard because plenty of things can be personal to an individual and different people will have different priorities that might seem silly to someone else.
Like a lot of people will really really claim that football is their religion and might truly believe that it is as important as god might be to someone else but we don't protect that.
We think when the government says this personal preference is more important than other personal preference, it is getting behind that religion in a way that violates the separation of church and state and it essentially sends the message look, we decided this is something that is uniquely important, uniquely true, uniquely personal, which is bad for the individuals who don't partake in that kind of stuff.
If anything, the fact that it is so personal means we should be protecting speech against it because it's so prone to people becoming overprotective about it and trying to enforce it on unrelated people's ways of life as we often see when you have aggressive christians pushing for prayer to become a thing in school or similar kinds of policies.
Our second argument is about preventing militant religiosity.
Blasphemy laws are a slippery slope.
Given a disproportionate amount of power to religious individuals because they can assert what they believe is blasphemous.
Intent is really hard to disprove which means this is super likely to be a biased law since religions can just say " look we think we've been blasphemed against " and just depends on the judge whether or not they buy it and we think that in southern or more conservative areas, this can be really dangerous because sure, if you're living in like new york city or boston massachusetts liberal judges are probably going to have less liberal definitions of what blasphemy is.
But if you're living in texas or any other nation that struggles with separation of church and state because of the high density of religious people, we think this is just giving them the tools to be even more oppressive to the minorities who live there which we think it's highly problematic.
Moreover, we think that in countries like the united states laws are often applied asymmetric asymmetrically.
So even when they have the potential to protect everyone, they often gets used against a particular group.
Christian groups already have an absurd amount of power in the united states.
Anti-blasphemy laws just give them more to wield against other groups.
You can call people blasphemers just to get rid of them or to enforce your own dogma against others.
We have a really long national history of religions trying to force themselves in other's lives and we think it's a protective measure to make sure that you're maintaining free speech and not protect and not protecting religions from blasphemy.
Proud to oppose.