Blood donations shouldn't be mandatory.
Sure, we agree the state exists to maximize citizens' well-being, but you can't do that at the cost of every other citizen within that country.
We think at the end of the day, this is why we don't have policies that force people to do things like give up parts of their homes during large refugee crises or large epidemics of homelessness.
Because we recognize that just because something maximizes the well-being of some subsect of the population doesn't mean that we ought make the well-being of others worse or put those people at a disadvantage.
Two main arguments or three main arguments, first on autonomy.
First, there are impacts to the donor.
Not being able to do strenuous activities are is oftentimes actually a really big deal if your job is one that requires something like heavy lifting, but also if you're someone who likes to keep fit or work out or maintain a certain lifestyle.
A lot of people also do get really bad reactions, not just some dizziness.
You often have really aggressive bouts of nausea, you can put someone out of commission for days because of a bad reaction to having their blood drawn.
We think that it's really important to recognize that these kinds of issues might sound small to someone who's just listening to them being listed, but can actually really hurt the individuals who have to go through those issues and deal with those consequences.
Every single person should be able to decide for themselves whether that is something that they are capable of dealing with at that point in their life.
We think that a lot of the time people are willing to donate blood, they just want it to happen during times that are easiest for them which completely makes sense given that they have to keep functioning as normal people during the time that they have given blood.
So if you do if you have something like a massive test in a few days or you really want to run in a particular race or your job is like that, then pushing off blood donation or not doing it at all is a completely reasonable thing.
We just don't think these impacts are short-term if blood donations have to be given on a regular basis as well because you're forcing that person to relive their discomfort over and over on an annual basis.
We think the government needs to fundamentally respect citizen autonomy.
You can't go sacrificing that for the sake of other citizens because you create a slippery slope.
There are millions of limits to to individual autonomy that could help the general population, but we don't agree with it because it's still rights violative and that's a principle that has to prevail.
Having slaves generates a lot of income for the government that can help benefit society, but we don't do that because protecting peoples' rights is more important.
Our second argument is about political consequences.
First we think that you set a dangerous legal precedent.
The idea that you can just force people to give up personal parts of themselves for the benefit of others.
The idea that it's okay to mandate invasive procedures, and force people to do something with their bodies they might not necessarily want to do.
And the idea that it's okay to collect that information about someone and keep that as like a government or a hospital about like from such a massive perspective as like everybody within a country.
We acknowledge the free-rider problem exists, but we just don't think that it is the most important thing in the round.
We are in the process of doing things like inventing synthetic blood, we can encourage individual people choosing to give blood on their own to increase the net amount of available blood, and it's possible to have enough without forcing every single person to donate.
Our third argument is about privacy.
When you give blood, that blood is tested, which is necessary because you have to know what blood you're putting in other peoples' bodies and whether it has any diseases.
But the side effect of this is that a lot of information comes out of those tests.
Things like whether you've consumed any drugs, the information about any diseases that you might be going through, and this is really problematic because it forces people to out themselves about things they might not be ready to do.
And especially since you can't guarantee that that informational will remain private, we think it's actually really likely that you can have individuals that hack for this kind of information in order to sell it to others or to blackmail people and it gives the government infrastructure and acts access to everybody's blood information which is just a very problematic way of mass surveilling and collecting data.
Proud to oppose.