We should adopt blasphemy laws.
Our model is fairly simple.
You'd have a fine when someone blasphemes any religion publicly.
We don't think that this is something that has to apply digitally because we think an important part of this is that it's about being in an attempt to incite mob anger or violence.
We think in order for something to be prosecuted underneath some of these blasphemy laws you need to prove intent and impact.
So blasphemy that doesn't materialize as some sort of violence against religion would not be prosecuted.
Two main arguments: first, on promoting religious harmony.
Recognize we think this is actually a round about political signaling.
In the status quo, it's really easy for majority religions like christianity to repeatedly target minority religions without any consequence simply because they occupy a majority.
In this way even though there is technically no legal blasphemy laws, there still de jure exist blasphemy laws simply because of how much power members of majority religions hold and in the status quo these kinds of things are very asymmetrical because there is no tool that other people or minority religions can use to fight back when they are blasphemed but they still risk violence when they blaspheme other religions because we see that if someone comes up to a church and yells about how bad christianity is they're infinitely more likely to have some kind of violence against them than if someone does the same to a mosque.
So we think that codifying in law but you ought not be doing this to any religion is really important for the protection of minority groups because the majority have the ability to pull this kind of thing either way simply because of the amount of mob power that they have.
It's important for the government to indicate all these religions are equal in the eyes of the state.
In the status quo because christianity has had centuries to amass dominance, although it doesn't receive explicit legal benefits, it as good as does and we need to correct for this by mandating egalitarianism and having equal enforcement.
It also forces religions to approach each other in a more peaceful manner because you don't want to get fined for blasphemy.
Once something becomes illegal people are simply less likely to do it.
So if you think that it is a beneficial world in which we don't just go around insulting other people's firmly held beliefs, we think this is something you're already voting gov on.
Our second argument is about promoting freedom of religion.
Hearing instances of blasphemy can discourage people from becoming or staying religious in the first place and we think that it's important that people can freely choose whether or not to pursue a religion without fear of others.
Blasphemy laws are a step in that direction because it allows individuals to feel safe within their religion because they know that if someone attempts to target them or attempts to to incite violence against them they have some kind of legal avenue by which they can prevent that from happening or at least gain retribution after it has happened.
Having blasphemy laws also acts as a signal that religions are protected within the state which allows people to feel comfortable pursuing their religion and is a core tenet, a freedom to religion that often is part of the constitution in many western liberal democracies including the united states.
Proud to propose.