We should fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
Our model is that we want to start an international treaty that countries can sign on to promising to get rid of their nukes.
No one has to actually get rid of them until the treaty has been finalized, but every signature is a pledge that cannot be withdrawn from in any official capacity.
So like sure a country can say we're not honoring it anymore but we think there needs to be a fairly strong like international understanding that this is something that you sign on to and you should be really ashamed if you drop out of it.
Two main arguments: first, on ending the potential for such massive destruction.
It is important to stress exactly how bad nuclear weapons actually are because they are literally worse than any other weapon that we have even given literally almost a century plus of research into these kinds of higher tech weapons.
This is true both in terms of scale in that they can affect more people than anything else because it doesn't just have a massive blast radius.
Nuclear fallout can also literally blow around to people that aren't in that blast radius, people who can even be in different countries, also it travels inter-generationally so it can cause mutations that are passed down from generation to generation.
This is something that no other current weapon can accomplish in conjunction with its other effects but second, it is also worse in terms of impact.
Sure, some of the effects can individually be achieved by other weapons but no current weapon can both kill people on impact, cause mutations that travel inter-generationally, and cause such massive amounts of physical like wounding and scaring, even if you're not killed, to individuals while simultaneously posing a threat not just to the nation in which it gets blown up in but also to the countries that surround it and any kind of nation that is within reach by like the jet stream and by just the climate travel.
If there is any way to stop this kind of damage from ever occurring again, we have an obligation to fight for it on behalf of all of the people who would suffer from something like this.
But also we think it's important that we get closer and closer to ending the fear of irrational actors because op is going to come up here and talk about mutually assured destruction and why this means we don't have anything to fear with regard to nukes but op is never going to be able to account for irrational actions, actors that aren't bound by normal logic.
Actors like kim jong-un or even donald trump aren't people who consider the potential for harm.
They are too small-minded and don't have enough personal skin in the game.
We need to protect people from these kinds of actors by preventing nuclear weapons from ever becoming an option again because as long as we have the potential for distrustful, irrational actors to be at the head of these kinds of programs, we must fight for them to not have access to these weapons.
Our second argument is about encouraging international collaboration towards peace.
This kind of fight for peace requires collaboration between nations which is good because it'll start communications between nations that haven't communicated in a peaceful manner for a long time.
It will also motivate people within individual countries to join the fight for these kinds of things.
It'll allow them to start participating politically and push for change in a way that oftentimes we don't get to because these kinds of decisions seem to be so set in stone.
We prefer countries to be participating in peace talks than the alternative.
We think that right now there are a lot of conflicts between nations and we think distracting them from those conflicts by discussing a peaceful option and something that could benefit everybody is net good.
Proud to propose.