We should not ban chemical weapons.
Two main arguments, first on ending conflicts faster.
Recognize that chemical weapons have the ability to shut down a conflict a lot faster than conventional weapons.
This is for two main reasons.
First because they make an infinitely more effective threat than boots on the ground because they come with a lot less political leverage or political clout from the country that offers it, right?
Like we think that what happens oftentimes with boots on the ground is that a country who is being invaded recognizes that the the country that is doing the invading is likely having a political dispute about whether or not those lives are worth it.
But with chemical weapons when you can deploy them from the sky or deploy them with much fewer people on the ground oftentimes the political battle that occurs in the country that deploys these weapons is a lot less.
So you're likely to have a lot scarier and higher of an impact.
So a lot of the time the country just makes that kind of calculus and decides that they don't want to enter into those conflicts in the first place.
This is how the very threat of chemical weapons, due the potential damage that they might cause and to the fact that there are much easier for easier to deploy against someone, can just stop the conflict from happening in the first place.
But also because they are they are often used to incur a lot more immediate damage really quickly.
So when you are when you can close down a conflict faster it means you're not going to be causing people harm for a longer amount of time and are more likely to avoid as many casualties.
This is because governments are afraid and are more likely to respond to abrupt and intense shows of power while long drawn out conflicts are easier for the general populace to get used to and don't incite the same visceral reaction that might cause the government to stop the conflict.
We prefer a world in which the immediate damage might be more intense but at least doesn't drag on for ages and ages and cost hundreds of thousands more lives.
We need to remember that the alternative to chemical weapons is just drawn out hand-to-hand combat violence with boots on the ground or non-chemical bombs and explosives that we think can be equally harmful if not more so.
Chemical weapons are awful but it will be ops job to show why it's worth banning them when the alternative is worse in terms of lives lost and people harmed.
Our second argument is about the impossibility of a ban.
Recognize that this is just completely unenforceable, right?
Like the best case scenario on op is that large state actors stop using chemical weapons, but this just means they won't be able to defend when inevitably some rebel group or terrorist organization starts using chemical weapons against the state's people or military.
It's important to not take a tool out of the toolbox of legitimate actors.
We can do everything in our power to limit their use and push for state actors to promise not to use them and sanction the countries that overuse them, but banning them is a step too far that we think is actually going to act against the interests of those actors that we think are most stable and most democratic.
If you can't enforce things you should definitely not make the laws in the first place and unenforced law is worse than no law at all because it takes away from the legitimacy of all laws collectively when you have a few that don't actually get enforced.
But the second layer here is also that when you tell legitimate actors to stop doing something and they go along with it, you prevent them from being able to respond effectively to illegitimate or dangerous actors in the long term.
Proud to propose.