Chemical weapons should be banned.
On this whole argument that james has going about how he's going to magically regulate the use of chemical weapons, I want him to actually have to provide evidence on how this is going to happen.
Like same as with weapons of mass destruction, once you allow the existence, regulation becomes a country by country agreement with no real way of knowing anything for sure.
Like we see this in the status quo when the united states keeps trying to negotiate iran being non-nuclear.
What happens every time is that every time we get close to an agreement we find video footage that iran is actually lying to us or iran pulls back or something similar.
Like we think the problem with their side of the house is that there's no actual enforcement unless you have an international ban because then you can end up with a world in which all of the countries agree on something so one country breaking those rules is universally disliked and acted against.
You also get a different kind of enforcement and accountability when you have these kinds of blanket bans that apply to every country rather than just regulation because it becomes infinitely easier to notice that somebody is stepping out of line when everybody's having to behave in the similar manner.
So we think that you're actually just more likely to catch people who are like behaving problematically or using these kinds of weapons in a way that is against regulation when you ban them outright rather than having to have some weird regulation that is so much harder to enforce than an outright ban because you actually have to keep track of the minutia of which instances maybe they were allowed to use this thing and which one they weren't.
Three main arguments, first on why chemical weapons are inhumane.
They are unique because they often cause a lot more suffering and kill a lot more people all at once.
There's a massive difference between things like chemical weapons and weapons like guns or bombs because sure you can kill a lot of people either way but it's about the amount of effort you have to exert for it and how much those people feel pain later.
Like mustard gas is definitely more deadly than getting shot because of the way that it hurts your lungs and creates long term pain and suffering that sure a shotgun might wound you but is infinitely less likely to have that same level of effect than mustard gas is guaranteed to have, which we think is the important portion here.
But also we just think that the problem with a lot of the scenarios is about how hard how like easy it is to intensify these conflicts when you're using chemical weapons versus when you're using more conventional weapons, right?
Like we think that even with weapons of mass destruction what happens on our side of the house is that you're going to have mutually assured destruction that prevents their use either way.
The problem is that chemical weapons aren't quite that harmful that you're going to have agreements or like mutually assured destruction but they are more harmful than other types of weapons which means they're going to cause a lot more damage.
Our second argument is about creating international collaboration and agreement.
If it's not banned you just end up with an awful slippery slope.
When you have it banned internationally all countries can come together when it comes to enforcement and all countries can agree on what the mechanism of enforcement will look like.
It also gives all citizens an agreed upon protection which is important security when we think about how how much citizens are often at the mercy of the state.
Drew talks about other weapons of mass destruction like we can have a discussion about whether those should be banned as well, but you can't just unban one bad thing because you're worried about another bad thing getting worse.
Like that just means you should be talking about regulating that other bad thing because clearly it is equally bad to something that you already decided was bad enough to ban.
We also just think that mutually assured destruction is really different just because it impacts people in such a broad scale that mutually assured destruction actually exists rather than with chemical weapons where there's no mutually assured destruction but it's still so bad that it's really going to hurt people more than other weapons.
Our third argument is that it's unnecessary.
You don't actually fill a unique niche with chemical weapons, you just intensify the impacts of any other weapon or course of action.
But you can achieve those same impacts without such intense actions.
Chemical weapons take conflicts from zero to one hundred in a matter of in a faster amount of time than a conflict which usually ramp up.
Proud to oppose.