Blood donation shouldn't be mandatory.
First, we think there's a massive problem with james' model.
He says that it'll be after natural disasters and similar situations, but the problem is that this is just going to impact the people who are already affected by those disasters even more, because you're going to be asking people to donate after a hurricane, and you're going to be asking people in the vicinity because you're going to have to be able to get that blood out to those who need it most faster, and also because of the arguments that james lists about how blood isn't actually stable for super long.
And these are going to be the people who'll be simultaneously burdened with massive blows to their livelihood and family, so we think it is unfair to ask them to donate blood at the situations even more than the unfairness we're going to describe later about mandating it more generally.
So, already, we think that james has started this debate with a massive disadvantage, because he's basically saying: you, the people who have suffered the most because of these kinds of crises, give up more of yourself, give up more energy that you probably need at this moment in order to donate blood.
Look, our side of the house is really willing to heavily encourage and support blood donations, but we think it is really problematic to ever mandate it.
Three arguments: first, on autonomy.
Recognize that blood donation does have a lot of impacts on the donor.
James pretends that it's like a low blood sugar strike and a pint of blood, but we think this is actually not the case, right?
Like, you're not able to do strenuous activity.
Like a lot of people get really bad reactions.
They get really dizzy, they get nausea, and it can put someone out of commission up to a few days after doing this kind of process.
And we think that, also, government needs to fundamentally respect citizen autonomy.
This will always trump james' arguments about the utilitarian calculus, because utilitarianism is an awful underlying framework for how we should do things.
Because you're always going to be willing to sacrifice individual people when you think you have a greater good in mind, but the person who adjudicates greater good is going to be the government or whatever body makes these decisions, not the individuals who are part of it.
This is why we have overlying principles: because we know that utilitarianism can be used to justify a lot of awful things just because you're going to be helping a majority of people or something similar, but you don't want to enter those kind of fields.
You can't go sacrificing all of these autonomy like and all of these people's rights for the sake of other citizens.
This creates a slippery slope, because there are a million limits to individual autonomy that could help the general population but we don't agree with it, because it's still rights violative, and that's a principle that ought prevail.
Having slaves generates a lot of income for the government that can benefit society, but we don't do that because preventing protecting people's rights is more important.
So even if donating blood might not seem like a big deal to james, he has to acknowledge that there are other people out there for whom this is a big deal, not just a pint of blood and some water.
It's also their time, other side effects, the religion they have to compromise.
It's usually also not a matter of saving someone's life since the way that medical triage works is that people who need it most will get blood first.
So, if anything, this is just a moderate discomfort for someone until blood does come up.
Like, in modern western liberal democracies, it's pretty rare that someone dies because of lack of blood.
Our second argument is about political consequences.
We think you're setting a dangerous legal precedent: the idea that you can just force people to give up personal parts of themselves for the benefit of others, the idea that it's okay to mandate invasive procedures and then collect that information about someone.
Like, yeah, we acknowledge that shortages can be a problem, but we don't think they're a problem for long, right?
We're in the process of inventing synthetic blood.
We can encourage individual people choosing to give blood on their own to increase the net net amount that is available and, like, stress this especially during crises, if that's what james is worried about.
Like, it's possible to have enough without forcing people to donate.
Our third argument is about privacy.
Giving that blood up means that you're going to be tested for a lot of diseases, and a lot of information comes out of that.
So we think that it's really important to prevent people from being stuck in those kinds of situations where they feel like they have to give up private information to a government body.
Proud to oppose.