Don't fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
I think that one thing that me and james both agree on is that we prefer a world in which nuclear weapons don't exist.
What we disagree on is the best way in which we go about accomplishing that goal.
I think it is important to recognize that there's no world in which we actually abolish nuclear weapons, no matter how hard we fight for it.
There is never a world in which we get every single country within our current like that currently has nuclear weapons and is currently fighting for nuclear weapons to let that go, especially not at the same time.
We need to do the more pragmatic thing.
Insofar as we'll never get abolition in every country it is much more realistic to fight for reasonable regulations and controls and to fight for some countries never getting them in the first place, as we've been doing with iran where we continually try to work towards de-weaponizing them and like taking away their ability to create nukes in the first place.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining political will.
Fighting for complete abolition is a process that promises to never end.
There are so many countries and you'd have to get all of them to agree.
It is very likely by the time you got one to agree the ones that were already in on it would drop out because of how long it would take to get to that point.
Because recognize that politics isn't stable straight line.
We live in a world in which political will fluctuates really quickly so the peace treaty that might be possible one day has one of those actors dropping out the next day because of something that changed in the prices in their markets, or because of political upheaval, or any number of other variables that nobody can actually control for.
So insofar as this is just literally impossible to accomplish we don't think it's worth fighting for.
Moreover countries won't agree to abolish their nukes without guarantees that other countries will do the same because they would be afraid of risking their security and because they would be afraid about the political reaction when the people within their nation thought that they were throwing away their security when other countries weren't doing the same.
We also just will never be able to control for countries that lie or hide their facilities.
So it we'll have countries that say that they're going to stop having their nuclear weapons but they don't actually do so, and even if they do actually get rid of nukes you're going to have other countries accusing them of not doing so and not signing on to these kinds of deals on principle.
If drew is convinced the proliferation is going to get worse with time that he has to defend how he's going to keep that proliferation from occurring while fighting for abolition.
If it's as inevitable as he thinks it is more reasonable to fight for regulations and controls as well as fighting for individual countries to not obtain nukes in the first place, because this is something that we can actually control and accomplish and like get more countries on board for.
We think that he's choosing such an extreme route that he's wasting political will to the point where he is being detrimental to his own cause.
Our second argument is about maintaining mutually assured destruction.
We don't actually think that mad is a bad thing because it prevents conflict escalation at levels much lower than nukes.
In the status quo there are a lot of ways to cause a lot of damage to people without ever touching nuclear weapons.
But a lot of countries won't touch those either because they're afraid of inciting nukes farther down the line.
The existence of nuclear weapons promotes negotiation and collaboration.
Since countries are afraid of ever getting close to the point of nukes they're not going to use other more dangerous weapons like biological weapons or chemical weapons in order to avoid that potential.
It also means that peace talks just start earlier because they're afraid of the unpredictability of setting off a nuclear weapon.
We also think that right now is a really strong incentive for other countries to get involved in mediating the conflicts between countries that might be getting dangerously close to nuclear weapons which has over flow benefits of ending those kinds of conflicts earlier.
Without nuclear weapons this wouldn't happen because there'd be nothing to fear of the same scale.
Proud to oppose.