Don't ban corporal punishment in the home.
We already have laws against child abuse, so clearly there's a difference between the two.
We think that if a parent can show that they aren't using physical abuse but are rather using corporal punishment in a mild way as part of their disciplinary action, that isn't something the government should get involved with.
It doesn't hurt a kid to get spanked every now and then, but it is an overstep on the part of the government to over involve itself in the way that parents raise their children.
Two main arguments, first on the slippery slope.
Corporal punishment can become an umbrella term.
There is a line between corporal punishment and abuse.
Abuse is much more physically harsh and heavy.
It occurs arbitrarily with no reason that specifically incites at the majority of the time.
Meanwhile, corporal punishment occurs in response to an action that requires some punishment.
It is much more metered and doesn't have long-term bruising or scarring the way that abuse often does.
Tim says that adult that assault is always abuse, but also children are just different than adults which we don't think he acknowledges.
Corporal punishment doesn't occur for the arbitrary reasons the way that assault does.
It occurs because that child has acted in a way deserving of that punishment.
Also, assault is always on a more intense scale.
The person is actually longer term physically harmed.
This isn't an arbitrary difference.
We think that children are also developmentally smaller and haven't formed a sense of morality or independence in the way that adults do.
We also just think that sometimes you need to teach a negative feedback loop quickly, like when a kid does something potentially dangerous like hurting a sibling or playing with a stove.
We also just don't think that the long-term effects that tim keeps talking about actually exist.
Like, sure, again, this is something that happens if actual abuse is going on, but getting spanked every now and then doesn't teach you to be abusive or prevent you from participation in society.
Tim doesn't draw the line clearly enough.
He seems to be talking about actual abuse, not just corporal punishment.
The long-term impacts are very different.
Deep scars on child psyche do not occur if the child isn't left in long-term pain.
Our second argument is about parental rights.
We recognize that parents should have control over the way that their children are raised.
This isn't codified in law, but it is codified in our social acceptances and behaviors.
This is why we don't support the government taking away children and raising them all the same way, and also why we frown on parents being told how to raise their children in other ways.
We all hear and empathize with parents who complain about other parents who think they should be raising their children in a particular manner, because we recognize that it is an overstep on the part of someone else to tell someone how to raise your child.
We can punish someone when they do bad and reward when good.
This is the most effective way for teaching, but a lot of people might not have the means to reward when children are being good all the time, the way that tim seems to say is the best-case scenario.
In that situation, there has to be some alternative.
We also just think that only positive rewards don't teach which behaviors are bad.
That's where you end up with needing punishment to coexist there, and if tim was actually someone who's reading about psychology, he'd recognize that the best situation is in which you're molding behavior by keeping both of these methods at hand.
We also just think that parents suffer for the children that they create, and therefore deserve some control over their upbringing.
Mothers spend nine months literally growing a parasite.
You pour thousands of dollars into growing a kid, feeding them, housing them, etcetera.
They deserve to exert some control over that child's development as long as it isn't objectively harmful and ends at a reasonable age.
Like we think there's a reason that, oftentimes, parents tend not to use corporal punishment anymore once that child is a teenager, because they see that, at that point, this child is pretty much an adult, has like formed some kind of moral compass, and should be able to be making those decisions themselves.
Proud to oppose.