Don't phase out lightweight plastic bags.
James is just wrong.
Plastic bags are recyclable.
They don't have to have the bad environmental impacts that they do as long as we do a good enough job of encouraging people to recycle and reuse the bags they consume.
We're also fine with a world where we switch to biodegradable plastic bags instead, we're just against banning plastic bags entirely.
Keep in mind also that banning plastic bags just means raising the amount of paper bags in addition to reusable bags so if we show you that the impacts of these other types of replacements are going to be equally bad then we don't think that it's worth it to ban plastic bags just because it is also bad.
Two main arguments, first on convenience.
The reason we started using plastic bags at all is because they're incredibly convenient to use and easy dash cheap to provide for free.
This allows transportation for your groceries to be accessible regardless of how much money you have or whether you were in a rush before going to the store and forgot to bring your own bags.
They're also cheaper for stores to provide than paper or reusable bags.
It's the comparative of four cents for paper bag in one cent per plastic bag.
And on our side of the house we think it's actually sufficiently important to encourage stores to provide some kind of free alternative in order to make sure that people have access to like the transportation that they need.
Right?
Like we think it's problematic when individuals who can't afford to keep reusable bags, who maybe don't have a car so it's really hard to carry reusable bags around them consistently, like any number of reasons that we think interferes with the individual's regular planning and ability to be able to sustainably shop.
And we think that those people still deserve to be able to access some kind of bag.
Like as long as we can show you this isn't the tipping point in terms of the environment, convenience is actually a really big deal.
Because we're talking about millions and millions of people who are all trying to get their groceries or they're like clothes shopping or any number of other things done, that uses plastic bags.
Our second argument is about why the alternatives aren't better.
Scientifically plastic has a smaller carbon footprint than the alternative like paper or cotton bags.
They use less water and produce less greenhouse gases during the production process.
And paper takes up more space in landfills than plastic bags while taking up almost just as much time to disintegrate.
Which means we think it's actually a really bad trade off because on net you're using up more landfill space, which means that you're going to have more landfills in general when all of the people who are using plastic bags, when which can become really really compressed start using these like large bulky paper bags that can't become as compressed.
Moreover we think that people are just going to replace the lightweight plastic bags with worse alternatives.
Sure, some people might be really good about buying a few reusable cloth bags and using them for literally ever, but the vast majority of people are more likely to either continually throw out their plastic reusable bags after a couple of uses or just use other plastic bags that get used around the house.
It was reported in ireland when there was a plastic bag tax that there was a massive increase in plastic bin liner bags and garbage bag sales.
It showed that people were buying were just buying more plastic bags for home and then using those instead of turning to more sustainable back practices.
The further problem is that the replacement plastic bags tend to be made of thicker plastic that poses a stronger threat to the environment.
So you actually end up with a net worse impact on the environment in these kind of countries.
Plastic bags are also such a small percentage of overall pollution and waste, only zero point four percent of municipal waste, that it would also be smarter to allocate these same effort towards more pressing issues like reducing air pollution or increasing recycling of of plastics.
They don't have nearly the harm that james claims in terms of magnitude of impact but more over the alternatives tend to have an almost equal environmental impact.
So maybe your your paper won't mess up the sea turtles as much but paper bags will facilitate the growth of different molds that will make marine habits inhabitable.
So we really don't think he's trading something for something better.
Proud to oppose.