We should end the use of agricultural subsidies.
Our model for this is that we're still fine with having small business subsidies or tax breaks that would apply to small farms depending on their size, but this should be a qualification based on size and income level not based on just being in agricultural industry.
In the status quo there's a problem because we are facilitating corporate welfare by allowing large industrial farms to profit off of government money and subsidies instead of being forced to actually adjust their practices to be independently profitable and sustainable.
Rich farmers don't need this subsidy.
Let's stop subsidizing agriculture in a blanket manner and start making sure that money is actually going towards people who need it.
It is a problem that in the status quo farms like purdue and other large companies can qualify for these kinds of subsidies even when they personally have no feel demonstrated need.
Two main arguments, first on the expenses.
It is expensive to two parties: first the taxpayers.
We have to remember who funds these subsidies.
It's the individual american taxpayer.
This makes it even more important that the money from those taxes is going toward benefiting people who really need it in the way that affects society in the most positive manner.
We don't think agricultural subsidies do that.
They serve a very niche group of people, that are often not even the worst off in society, while there are hundreds who are suffering more for reasons that are less under their control.
But it also is really expensive to the government.
Like they could be using this money for other more important things.
At the end of the day this is simply a debate about whether the money could be better used.
Because even if op proves that there are some benefits to farming subsidies, if we show that we can obtain a larger benefit to a group that needs it more by reallocating the money into somewhere else like education, social services or any number of other places, we win this round.
We think that government obligations stand toward the hierarchy of human needs.
Things like shelter, food etcetera for the individual are more important than subsidizing agriculture given that agriculture can act like a business and generate its own profit, but meanwhile not eating is something that is going to kill someone much faster and be much more painful.
Our second argument is about the benefits of an authentic market.
When the government does these does these things like subsidize a certain sector it prevents that market from solving for issues of need and efficiency.
IE it distorts the market by having a subsidy.
It allows the government to artificially uplift parts of the farming industry that are objectively unprofitable and would otherwise be self selected out of the market.
Because farmers who are growing a crop that wasn't making enough of a profit would just stop, instead of having the government supplement them with subsidies and allow them to continue producing the same unprofitable product.
Removing subsidies would force the agricultural sector to become more independent.
It'll actually start responding to market pressures rather than relying on government bail out.
Farmers won't grow things that aren't generating a profit anymore and start learning to operate on their own.
We see this working in new zealand where major reforms lead to flourishing and independent agricultural sector and primarily those reforms were made up of decreasing subsidies and government support for the farming industry.
Proud to propose.