Tim argues a lot about developing nations and why agricultural subsidies in the US are bad for the countries abroad but doesn't explain why the US should care about this.
The united states should only care about their own domestic markets and domestic economy.
We have obligations to our own population because those are the ones that elect our legislature and those are the ones who give up certain rights in order for the government to rule over them.
But they don't have similar obligations to other countries because they don't elect representatives they don't pay taxes and most importantly there isn't a social contract that exists wherein those people give up certain rights in order for the US government to dominate them.
Most american citizens want agricultural subsidy.
It is a general good for the public to have more easily accessible domestic agricultural goods.
Tim forgets that these economic factors interact in complex ways to form a common good.
Sure like maybe there's nothing right off the bat about agricultural subsidies that looks like it would benefit someone working as like a fry cook into new york city, but the average person being able to afford american crops means we're growing the american economy rather than supporting one abroad.
We're providing more jobs in domestic sectors rather than skipping over domestic sectors entirely and just supporting the creation of jobs somewhere else, and you're allowing individuals access to food that was grown nearby rather than millions of years away from us in conditions that we don't know anything about.
Two arguments, first on supporting farmers: providing farmers with a consistent income is actually really important because without subsidies farming is an incredibly risky endeavor.
You can't rely on consistent income because it depends on your harvest which depends on tons of uncontrollable factors like the weather and the soil quality and you also don't get consistent income over time it because you don't reap harvest continually throughout the year.
It's not like other jobs where you get a monthly paycheck with farming you plant at the beginning of the summer and wait months to get a harvest that will pay off all at once.
This is bad because it means that people won't want to go into farming and the ones who do you spend a lot of time struggling.
We want people to be farmers because we need them to grow food for the nation and can facilitate that occurring by making sure that they know we have their back.
It makes people comfortable being farmers, which is good because this is an industry that we generally think is positive in the united states.
It also support smaller sectors of the farming economy being competitive on the world market.
It's really hard for small farms to compete and farming subsidies provide them with the support to do so.
Our second argument is about food prices.
It makes the price of domestic food cheaper which allows domestic food to be competitive with foreign goods.
This is positive for two reasons, first the creation of jobs: importing food from foreign countries doesn't create domestic jobs the way that growing our own agricultural sector does, which is actually quite important because farming jobs tend to not require an education in the way that a lot of the jobs in the united states are moving towards.
So individuals who didn't go to college, and oftentimes individuals who didn't finish high school, can find a job despite the fact that they're not qualified for the vast majority that are actually produced by the united states.
But also because it promotes food independence.
We think it's really bad to be overly dependent on foreign imports because it means that other countries control the well being of american citizens.
They can just decide to raise prices and we won't be prepared to deal with it.
This might happen in cases of conflict, where maybe were like we're having like international conflict with another country or something similar, and all of a and also simultaneously we depend on them for a lot of our food imports, and it would be really bad if they could just control the outcome of that conflict by saying: " hey we're shutting down deliveries.
Have fun replacing it. "
But it's also really bad because if there's something like a drought or other natural disaster in those countries and prices increase out of the blue because of things outside of anyone's control, the US has nothing to fall back on if it allows its agricultural sector to be taken apart by these international bodies.
Therefore, proud to oppose.