We should ban live exports.
Three main arguments, first on animal cruelty.
Recognize that live exports oftentimes come at massive cost to the livelihood and the essential like security of the animal that you're transporting.
These animals are kept in creates with no space for weeks as they are being transported across the ocean or over air.
When they are in these crates, they have no ability to use their muscles and they often times have very little food so many of them will actually die in the process.
You end up with mass amounts of muscle atrophy and pain.
This is just like the definition of suffering, right?
Like everything that is natural about an animal is to be outside to have space to run around to be free, and when you have live animal transport and export you go against all of those natural impetuses and you just create the least comfortable situation possible.
So even if you don't think that animals have that many rights or are equal to humans, it is definitely the case that animals shouldn't have to suffer unnecessarily for human desires.
Like there is no difference between the pain that an animal feels and the pain of that the human feels even if the animal has a smaller brain.
Like that's an arbitrary difference because suffering has to do with your motor neurons and your sensory neurons and those are things that both species just experience completely the same.
This is just a classic situation of higher order pain versus lower order pleasure.
We just don't think it's worth the trade-off to make animals suffer so much so that we make it marginally more convenient for a couple of humans, given that those humans are going to be fine either way.
Our second argument is that there is a lack of necessity.
We just don't understand why you can't just send dead meat instead.
Like they are already specimens of most domesticated and farm animal breeds on different continents so they have the ability to breed on those continents already.
There's no reason that they should be sending live animals except some marginal amount of convenience or money, but this just doesn't outweigh all of the reasons I'm telling you it's bad, right?
Like we also just think that a lot of the times you use live export to cover up smuggling because you are able to hide so much when you're able to just have these like untransparent crates with live things inside of them.
This includes things like drugs, you can smuggle like people in sex trafficking because you have the body heat and smell of the animals and and the crates to disguise these criminal goods.
And sure we like don't think that banning live exports will completely abolish these illicit dealings, but we do think that it'll make it significantly more difficult to accomplish them and make it a lot cheaper to catch them because it's also really hard to investigate and kinda like go in and look around these kinds of live export situations.
So we think that making it more difficult to smuggle and stopping those other forms of smuggling is something that we're definitely a fan of.
Our third arguments about the environment.
First recognize that animals are a vector for disease and it's really hard to track or like completely prevent these things from spreading because you can have in asymptomatic animal that is carrying a certain virus or a certain bacteria.
And even if you like go through the animal's fur to see if it's carrying any parasites that's not something unnecessarily fine and spores are really tiny.
So this is just like a very high risk activity.
That means you can transfer bacteria and viruses from continent to continent in ways that it could never have been done before.
And this is what allows like some species that might be fine in north america then become really parasitic and really bad in other countries.
Like there are some like grasses and some mushrooms that have done this before and like you can infect the soil or the people in those other nations.
And we just think that the fact that that risk can have such large impacts is always going to outweigh the marginal benefits of being able to have live exports.
Like we just think that protecting those people is more important.
Proud to propose.