We shouldn't encourage a third political party.
Government will probably talk about how there are plenty of countries in which third parties function perfectly well.
The problem is that these governments have systems that were set up around having more than two parties where as the US has spent decades entrenched within a two party system.
This means that there are certain systems both actual and cultural that preclude us from being able to be functional with a third party and encouraging one would be detrimental to our country as a result.
So when evaluating this round don't just evaluate the objective pros and cons of third parties, evaluate them within the context of the united states understanding that the impacts are specific based on the things that influence the outcome of those third parties.
Two main arguments: first, on splitting the vote in a way that harms democracy.
The way that the two party system works is by aggregating preferences of the population on different issues and then making a platform that addresses the directions of preferences for the majority of people.
What I mean by this is that most people who believe in abortion are also economically conservative and don't like gay people.
Similarly, people who like gay people and are economically liberal with more socialist tendencies are also usually pro choice.
This is how the parties occur, is that they take the set of issues and decide what this average type of person looks like, which views they are most likely to hold given one particular view and this system is actually surprisingly accurate.
Like even though there are individuals who might be economically conservative but socially liberal, the majority of the time these people either simply aren't what they say they are or are willing to compromise on one thing more than the other such that they still go for the party that represents them best but insofar as the views are all split relatively evenly, there isn't a good middle ground for a third party to occupy that isn't stealing a vote from one of the others.
This is really bad because it distorts the reality of political will in terms of outcome.
You're going to have on net more people who might prefer either the democratic or republican candidates but you can't get the impact of that candidate being in office because there are votes going down the middle that never serve to indicate the preference.
Government probably talked about how third parties can represent more diverse opinions but we think it is always going to be more important to have the preferable and like more desirable outcome in terms of the political will than to just be represented in terms of these opinions higher up the road before you actually get to political office.
Our second argument is that the third party is incompatible within the united states.
First, I want to talk about the relationship with the electoral college because we think that fundamentally the way that the electoral college works precludes the parallel functioning of a third party.
What we mean by this is that the electoral college as it stands only works with two parties because there's a winner takes all system.
A third party could never be expected to take all in a given state and certainly not in enough states to win over the electoral college altogether and until that gets resolved, there's no point in allowing people to waste their votes because those votes will never be able to actualize into impact and the other problem here is that you're basically creating just like a false sense of action at the point that you're saying hey look we have these third parties but those third parties can't actually influence reality and all they can serve to do is prevent people from actually being heard in the political process.
Like we think that people's votes only matter insofar as they go towards representing that person in outcome not just in opinion.
We also just think the second reason that they are just non-compatible is that there's a lot of endemic hegemony that we won't be able to get around.
We've had decades of two parties and it will take generations to turn the votes around both monetarily in terms of just getting enough funding behind a third party but also just in terms of the hearts and minds of individuals and what they are used to voting about and used to talking about.
Proud to oppose.