Paid time off shouldn't be mandatory.
To be clear, not mandatory doesn't mean that it won't exist anymore.
Individual employers can choose whether to provide paid time off and I think that if gov shows you that there are tangibly positive impacts on productivity with paid time off, then it is likely that employers will take that burden on for themselves because they also can see the benefits that paid time off might accrue for themselves but what we are arguing for is the rights of corporations to assess those benefits for themselves and choose not to provide them if they don't want to.
Two main arguments: first, on the rights of corporations.
Job creation is a competition.
When there are a lot of people vying for the same position corporations can get away with paying less or having fewer benefits, vice versa when there are few people for the same position.
But insofar as it is the corporation who is paying for the labor, it is up to the corporation to set the price according to market then an opt to individuals whether they take that deal.
Side government probably talked about how every person deserves to be treated decently and to have decent work benefits and this might be true for things like minimum wage but insofar as jobs are paying for work done and paid time off is money given for no labor at all, it should be up to corporations whether they're going to extend that extra benefit because we can all agree that you should be paid for the labor you put in, but this is a debate about whether you should also be paid when you are not actually doing labor for that company.
Government has to explain why philosophically employers ought be paying for time that isn't spent working given that this is the entire definition of a wage in the first place.
Our second argument is about the poor side effects.
Things like mandatory paid time off increases the overall cost of the entire company and this means that the extra money spent needs to be balanced out somewhere else.
This directly rebounds on employees.
Making paid time off mandatory means that they find places to cut corners.
This might be things like the quality of the insurance plans or the quality of other benefits but it also oftentimes results in less jobs on net because they can't afford as many people for the same amount of money because they are factoring in paid time off.
It also affects the kind of incentives that happen for these kind of companies because when you are having to pay for paid time off you want to select individuals who aren't going to use that and this actually rebounds really badly on to the rest of society when we see that the people who have the highest risk for needing time off tend to be individuals like women who have children and even those who don't often get stereotyped as potentially being a time off risk because they are likely or have the potential to have children and because society has kind of stereotyped women as people who always want to have kids and that is always like a goal of theirs which isn't necessarily true either and we think that because you are shifting the incentives of these corporations in such a way that they are just having more harmful hiring practices in the first place, this isn't worth it.
We would prefer to have more jobs on net with better benefits and with less predatory hiring practices than to have just like a higher quality of job for some select group of people that is lucky enough to get it and this is because we prefer for on net everyone to have a slightly higher quality of life than for the majority of people to have a lower quality of life while some people have a significantly better quality of life.
Like that's the kind of comparison we're doing here.
Some discomfort is worth having less discomfort on net.
Proud to oppose.