Tax protester arguments aren't justified.
Probably a lot of what government focused on in this debate was all about how taxation is theft.
It takes hard-earned money from the people who earned it naturally and through their own like difficulty, and experience, and effort, and I think the problem here is that this is an unnuanced understanding of the way that the world works.
We do not think it is possible to separate someone's labor from the support systems that uplifted them or from the government-provided services that allowed them to be in that position in the first place.
I think, at the end of the day, we need to understand that it is okay to limit someone's autonomy or take some of their money as long as that money is being allocated for the public good, because the need of those other individuals and of the government is infinitely more important than the extra money is to that one person, especially because, as I'll tell you later, our current taxes are set up in such a way that if you truly cannot afford them, you will not be paying them.
So it's definitely just money that would have been otherwise used for luxury either way.
Two main arguments: first, on how government needs money.
Recognize that there's just that the government is created in and of itself in order to provide for the people, but in order to accomplish its duties, it must be able to pay for those provisions.
And I think the problem with side government is that they want to have some kind of system, like presumably they would agree that having a functional united states government is good, but what they are arguing for is something that would essentially prevent the government from being able to operate at all.
In order to do things like run on a daily basis, take care of the services that the government provides, like everything from roadwork to education, all of these things that we've collectively agreed upon should be public goods, you need to have the money to do that, and you need to get that money from somewhere.
And the only group that you can get that money from is from taxes.
And recognize that this is a reciprocal relationship, right?
The people demand a fairly high amount from the government.
It is fair for the government to then say: yes, I will provide you with the things that you want, but I need your money in order to do so.
And the services provided are crucial public goods.
We would not be able to survive without roads.
Individuals would be left completely destitute without an education.
This also helps those who are most vulnerable, those who are poorest need to be broken out of the cycles of poverty, which can only be done with government assistance insofar as they don't have support networks elsewhere.
Otherwise, they would not only would they themselves be suffering significantly more, but they would be poisoning society into the long term, and society itself would be less productive because it would be losing out on all of these people who simply don't have the start-up power to be able to break their cycles.
Our second argument is that people can afford it.
The united states has a progressive tax system, which means that taxes are set up in such a way that if you are earning more, you'll pay more, and if you're earning very little, IE, less than the amount that you need in order to survive, then you will not be paying taxes, because the government isn't taking money just for fun, it's taking the money that you don't necessarily need in order to be able to provide things that it does think everybody needs.
Someone who makes a lot of money did so by exploiting exploiting the work of others to some extent, right?
Like government probably talked about how this doesn't matter because taxation is the theft of money that is earned rightfully by people's labor, but they forget that money is always made on the back of others and not in isolation.
So if I'm running a large corporation and I'm the CEO, so I making millions, I am doing so because I'm paying people underneath me significantly less and using them significantly more.
Moreover, you definitely used government-provided services to get there, whether this is because you attended a public school when you were younger or you drove on roads.
Taxes are just a form of giving back to the community after you have taken benefit from them, and we think that people who consent to continue living in the united states and benefiting off of the government and the other community need to be paying taxes.
Proud to oppose.