Don't introduce a smoking ban.
First to address tim's argument about how not banning smoking drains money from other uses.
We just like don't understand what exactly he means by this.
Does he mean that the government is wasting money?
In that case we're super down to have a world where we don't have any kinds where we don't allow tobacco lobbying and we don't give subsidies to the tobacco industry.
That's like something we think is good.
But if we're talking about the individual level, we think this argument doesn't function, right?
Like he has to prove that that money will actually go into things that are productive for the for the for the economy which we think is super unlikely because at the end of the day, people are going to people usually budget and have certain money that is set aside for entertainment things like smoking.
This means that they're going to just replace smoking with some other habbit that fulfills a similar niche and oftentimes costs the same amount.
So maybe you're not paying for cigarettes anymore but we think it's really likely that you're going to be doing things like paying for e-cigarettes or like alcohol or something similar.
We also just think the idea that it is economically unproductive to pay the tobacco industry is wrong, right?
Like we may be morally opposed to the tobacco industry but it's still an industry that provides millions of jobs.
It's still an industry that contributes to the economy.
At the point that that's true, we don't think that it is more productive to put that money elsewhere.
We think it's going to be a very similar level of productivity.
Two main arguments: first on promoting freedom and least restrictive means.
The united states is built on the idea of protecting individual autonomy and freedom.
This includes the right to make decisions that are bad for your health because we recognize that every individual can decide whether the consequences are worth it because every person has their own weighing calculus and prioritizes their own stuff while the government can only generalize generalize across the entire population.
This is why we don't think we don't allow the government to ban things like extreme sports or diet drinks.
These things are also bad for you in every meaningful way but that's not enough of a reason to ban them.
Smoking might not have any benefits for tim but it would to others and that's their prerogative.
You can't just assert that people should be valuing the quality of their life.
Maybe their valuing short term quality of life because that's how much smoking benefits.
We also think it's really paternalistic for tim to be like well even the benefits aren't actually benefits.
Like if you're someone who tends to overeat and the appetite suppressing benefits of nicotine are something that you're really into, that's fair.
You should be able to prioritize that and if you're someone who simply likes the action of smoking and you don't really care about whether or not you get cancer later, we might disagree with that decision, we might disagree with that decision very strongly, but we still think that's your mistake to make.
People can weigh pros and cons for themselves and decide with the benefits they personally are worth it for them individually.
It's also important because the risk of government overstep is so high when it starts personalizing things like this that it is a slippery slope we refuse to create.
Sure, it starts with banning cigarettes but once we accept more lax standards to paternalism, it becomes an excuse for the government to extend that to other things that might be less objectively wrong.
It's not about what you ban more about the logic you use for banning it and we don't want the logic behind banning cigarettes to get generalized to other things.
Our second argument is about preventing the re-glamorization of cigarettes.
We are already nearing a world without cigarettes because of our educational efforts.
We have been spending more than a decade forcing warning labels on packages, showing advertisings with people who have lost organs to cancer, and the incorporation of anti-cigarette learning in schools.
Placing a ban glamorizes the action.
This is why we often see more young people drinking in excess in countries with higher drinking ages than in countries with lower drinking ages because once you make something illegal, it speaks to the rebellious part of teenagers and they want to do it more.
We think it is smarter to just continue on the same path that we started and let our educational institutions do the work for us.
Anyone left who continues to smoke is making their own bad decisions and has clearly been and has clearly already been exposed to the reality of them but chooses to continue.
Proud to oppose.