Don't support water privatization.
First, to address james's argument on infrastructure: this literally doesn't matter, because businesses have equal incentives to squeeze every last dime out of bad infrastructure before putting millions of dollars into replacing it that the government does, just for different reasons.
The government does it because maybe there's a lack of tax money or political will, whereas businesses do it because they have a profit incentive.
But insofar as both of these things lead to the same impact, james doesn't have any offense on this argument, because both are just going to leave it around for as long as possible.
This means that other things are going to matter a lot more in this debate than the infrastructure that you may or, more likely, may not receive.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining egalitarian water distribution.
Recognize that the government has a vested interest in making sure that everybody gets water regardless of of location, first, because there's a principled obligation of " look, you promised people that you're going to provide them with water, therefore, you have to fulfill that, " but the second part of this is the kind of accountability that occurs in which we see that the people get really upset if the government doesn't follow through on their promises and does things like elect different public officials or, in the more extreme ways, goes on to revolt or like overturn the government.
Private companies are always going to balance the cost of that location with the profit that they're going to make.
So if an area is hard to reach in a way that makes it unprofitable, that area is likely to just not receive water, which is really problematic because water, it's a really important resource to individuals because you're literally going to die without it, but also because we rely on it to do so much more in the rest of our lives, whether it's because we cook with it or because we bathe in it, but also because we drink with it.
Our second argument is about maintaining low water cost.
James is just wrong.
Costs won't decrease with private ownership.
The logic of this is really simple.
Private corporations have a profit incentive, the government doesn't.
So, sure, maybe at first, there'll be a slightly lower price because of competition, but once that company has established itself as owning the water in a given area, they'll just push the price up as soon as they're established their their natural monopoly.
Meanwhile, on our side of the house, the government can mandate a cap on the price of water to make sure that it's accessible to the average person.
We have to recognize exactly how necessary water is to existence, first, because you'll literally die faster without water than without food, but also you need to make sure it's easily accessible to everyone in order to avoid people from either dying or getting really sick because they're consuming unclean water, which is the next alternative that people often pursue once they don't have access to clean water regularly.
Moreover, the government has a political incentive to make sure that citizens are actually provided for.
They have an obligation insofar as the social contract exists and it has to take care of its citizens.
The government doesn't want citizens to be unhappy because, as I mentioned before, they risk political unrest.
Private corporations don't have this kind of this kind of incentive, and they also have massive legal teams that are capable of shutting down individuals who try to take them to court.
So it's fairly likely that areas that are poor or more rural simply do not receive service.
Proud to oppose.