Jury duty shouldn't be mandatory.
When we say that it shouldn't be mandatory that doesn't mean that jury duty shouldn't exist rather we think that the government shouldn't allow should allow individuals to recuse themselves once they are selected and for new people to be selected until there is a full jury.
Government might say that this means that no one will volunteer but we think that individuals are likely to choose to stay volunteered for jury duty since work will pay them and cases can be interesting and they might see it as something that is beneficial for the government and for themselves.
The government can also continue pushing why jury duty is a good thing explaining that it is a civil duty that people should participate in and there are plenty of people who are likely to be compelled by this then participate because they feel like it is something good to do.
In general what we oppose is not the existence of jury duty rather we oppose the fact that it oftentimes forces individuals to participate in a jury even when they do not have the time for it or the money for it or simply like just don't feel like it because they have competing other things to do and we think this really violates individual's rights and individual's autonomy and also just like doesn't do things in the least restrictive way.
Two main arguments: first, on why this is an unfair request of the general population.
Jury duty is easy for people who have freer schedules or less demanding jobs and families but for a lot of people jury duty is an active professional and personal burden that the government shouldn't be enforcing on them.
The government exists for the purpose of the people and insofar as people are already paying taxes to support the government, it's unclear why they are already they also have to provide their time if there are other alternatives.
Gov is going to come up here and they're going to talk about how jury duty is one of those things that is outlined in the constitution as being one of the things in addition to taxes that sustains the government.
But our very argument is that we don't think it should be.
The people already give enough to the government such that they shouldn't also have to give jury duty, also give their time and we think that that's actually really important when contextualizing this round about whether it is fair for the government to ask that much of the general population.
Moreover, we think that the cost of jury duty can be really quite intense for people.
People who have jobs that don't get paid time off will lose money.
Individuals with children, especially single parents, shouldn't have to take time off from their families when it comes to the cost of those kids because we just don't think that jury duty is ever going to be as important as someone's healthy family being able to continue to exist in the same way and people working creative jobs can lose out on valuable time working on those project and we actually think that that's something that is really important.
Like at the point that we have the ability to find juries that doesn't obstruct individual's lives, we think that we should be taking every action possible to actualize that.
Our second argument is that it leads to bad juries.
When juries are created because people are forced on to them, those juries are more likely to be inattentive and actively detrimental to the case.
They're likely to make decisions spurred by wanting to get done instead of because they are trying to do their best and the outcome becomes actually really bad for the person who's being assessed by the jury because they're not actually getting people who care about the case or care about doing what is right, they're getting people who want to get out as fast as possible and we think that we're always going to prefer to have people who want to be on the jury there because it means that they will work harder, make sure they are more understanding and not opt for the easy way out.
Proud to oppose.