So we think that there's an important delineation to be drawn between growing tobacco and actually consuming it.
And so, we think that as long as on our side of the house we continue to discourage tobacco use vocally and through advertisements and through explanations and warnings, we think it's still okay to subsidize it, because we don't think that the subsidies necessarily automatically encourage consumption, rather they specifically encourage growth.
So what we're going to tell you is why the growth of tobacco is good for society, while we continue to say that it is bad for the individual.
Two main areas of clash.
First, on why there has been a long term dependency on subsidies, and you can't just break the chain now.
So, these subsidies have been around for a long time, and without it corporate farms would still be fine either way, because they've already made enough money in the past and established themselves to the point where they are likely to be able to keep producing at a relatively cheap rate, like they already have the initial funds and the initial materials.
So, it's unlikely that these that drawing back these subsidies are actually going to stop corporate farms from producing enough tobacco to supply all the cigarettes in the united states.
But the ones who you are affecting our those smaller farms that don't necessarily have the historical back, that are run by families and individuals, and what you're doing is you're making it impossible for them to continue to profitably grow the crop that they've usually been growing for generations at that point.
This is both bad on an individual level, because you're putting these people out of a livelihood, but it also makes states as a whole less likely to disincentivize consumption of tobacco, because rural areas aren't going to back these kinds of taxes and prohibitions on tobacco if it threatens their livelihood.
And a lot of these rural areas do rely on small farmer tobacco farming based on these subsidies to keep their economy moving, and to like pay off their state debts and things like that.
And so we think that if you're going to threaten their livelihood and you take away those subsidies, then you boost the incentive to sell as much of their product as possible, which is necessarily a bad thing then, because you have more people smoking cigarettes.
And so, we think that all subsidies actually do is allow these states to act autonomously, they let them be pro anti-tobacco legislature in other realms, and we just think that it's much more important to prevent individuals from consuming tobacco than to prevent individuals from growing tobacco.
Like one of them is going to kill people and one of them is just going to like happen and be sold and potentially harm people, but much less than like advertising directly to the individual.
Our second area of clash has to do with why agricultural subsidies as a as like a general thing are good.
And I want to talk about economics here, because we think that there are a lot of nations out there that have much harsher tobacco regulations than the united states.
And I think that the way especially, unlike the growth of tobacco, and we think that the way the united states can carve a niche for themselves in these kinds of situations is by trading tobacco grown within the united states with other countries.
This is economically good for us because trade is good and exports are good, and being able to tax those exports is good, but also because it when you build this kind of industry you're going to be creating large amounts of jobs that we currently have, that are going to like allow people to feed their families and contribute to the economy, and do all of those good things that make the united states as a whole healthier, and the market healthier.
The other side of this is that if you are to stop these subsidies suddenly, you're necessarily getting rid of these jobs, you're causing more unemployment and stagnation.
This is bad for the economy because people will feel less comfortable spending their money if they don't know where their next dollar is coming from.
So in the end, even if there is like a problem with tobacco as a plant, we think that it is generally doing a lot of good, and that the subsidy has been around for too long for it to be safely removed.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.