Don't phase out lightweight plastic bags.
I think the problem with these kinds of rounds is always that they're talking about absolute bans in situations where just better education and better encouragement on the part of the government would accomplish the same thing without a lot of the side effects that come with these kinds of bans.
Also, keep in mind that plastic bags are recyclable recyclable.
They don't have to have the bad environmental impacts that they do as long as we do a good enough job of encouraging people to recycle and reuse the bags that they consume.
Keep in mind also that banning plastic bags just means that you're going to be raising the amount of paper bags in addition to reusable plastic bags, which we think is actually super problematic, as we'll get into later, because a lot of the time these other alternatives have very similar impacts to what plastic bags do with some added problems such as like decreased accessibility, higher expenses and similar issues.
We also think that like in a world in which we have the capability, a lot of lightweight plastic bags can be produced to be biodegradable.
So, we're fine with the world in which we shift production to a different type of lightweight weight plastic bag, but we don't think they should be banned entirely.
Two main arguments, first on why the alternatives aren't better.
Scientifically, plastic has a smaller carbon footprint than the alternatives like paper or cotton bags.
They use less water and produce less greenhouse gases during the production process.
Paper takes up more space in landfills, also, than plastic bags and takes almost just as time as much time to disintegrate which means, on net, we're going to have to devote more space to landfills, because you're going to have millions and millions of people making the switch to paper bags, but you're not actually going to be garnering very much benefit from like faster disintegration, because paper actually doesn't decompose all that readily either.
Moreover, people are just going to replace the lightweight plastic bags with worse alternatives.
Sure, some people might be really good about buying a few reusable cloth bags, but the vast majority are more likely to just use other plastic bags that get used in the house or, which was happening reported a lot in countries that started increasing the amount of reusable bags, people only use those reusable bags for a couple of uses before dumping them out as well.
It was reported in ireland, when there was a plastic bag tax, that there was a massive increase in plastic bin liner bags and garbage bag sales, which showed that people were just buying more plastic bags for home use and then using those instead of turning to more sustainable bag practices.
In the status quo, people get plastic bags from the grocery store and don't have to buy as many plastic bags in reality, because we just reuse those in our trash cans and then throw them out.
The problem on their side of the house is the numbers are now going to compound.
You're buying some that go into your trash bins and then also using some to go to the grocery store.
So you're essentially not creating a cycle, you're just like you're creating a summation in which you have both of these sets of bags used for both of these purposes at the same time rather than one after the other.
The further problem is that the replacement plastic bags tend to be made out of thicker plastic that poses a stronger threat to the environment and takes longer to biodegrade.
Also, recognize that plastic bags are such a small percentage of overall pollution and waste, only zero point four percent of municipal waste, that it would also be smarter to allocate the same effort towards more pressing issues, like reducing air pollution or increasing the recycling of plastics.
We don't have nearly the harms that are claimed in terms of magnitude of impact but, moreover, the alternatives tend to have an almost equal environmental impact.
Our second argument is about convenience.
As long as we've shown you that it is not that not a tipping point in terms of the environment, this is where the real debate lies, because we think it's actually really important for the average person to have access to things that they use to transport their groceries from place to place.
Like there are millions of people in the world, and we care about their quality of life.
So when plastic bags make that life easier, we think that's something we should support.
Proud to oppose.