We should increase wealth redistribution.
Our model for this is also really simple we think that we are just going to have an extremely high progressive tax.
This round is going to focus on the philosophical justification for wealth redistribution more than the mechanics, that's something that we think can get worked out later, but the profits of this kind of tax would be going into programs that specifically benefit those who are lower income.
So either this goes into money that is directly provided to individuals like single mothers or part of welfare, things like that, or it's going into education programs, outreach programs anything that essentially helps people who are lower income.
Two main arguments, first wealth redistribution is philosophically justified.
Recognize that wealthy people rarely got that way without assistance.
Because no one is actually a self made person.
More often, a lot of things had to align in order for that person to become successful.
You usually came from a family that had more money, obtained a good education, and the majority of the time went to an elite college.
Because recognize also we're not talking about upper middle class wealth.
We're talking about the top one percent kind of wealth.
The I'm a billionaire like donald trump bezos kind of wealth.
These kinds of things are incredibly different because there's a difference between someone who went to a state school after going to public school their whole life and was born to someone who may be was lower middle class and achieved higher middle class by like traveling up this pre-made ladder.
There's difference between that and the gap of billions and billions of dollars of the top one percent of individuals in our country.
And I think those are the people that we talk about when we talk about wealth redistribution.
It's about taking money from people who are insanely above their own kind of like visualization and imagination wealthy, and making sure that some of that money goes to people who need it more.
But even if we say that they got like people got to the point of wealth on their own, they don't stay wealthy without help from the lower class.
Like you have to get wealthy on the backs of those who are poor because it is the lower class that creates the labor that allows the rich to get rich.
Whether it's because they're producing a product or providing a service or simply consuming whatever it is this rich person had.
Even if that person like got rich by investing in stocks, all of this depended on people who were invested in those companies in other ways and working for the companies whose stocks you bought.
So either way your wealth came from the lower class so we think that redistributing some of that wealth back is only proper, and in fact there's an obligation to do so, in order to provide similar opportunities so that those people are not shackled by structural barriers but rather are able to go on and achieve things on their own.
Which brings us to our second argument about promoting upward mobility and individual growth.
Being in a lower class isn't just about how much money you have, it's about the opportunities a person and their children have access to in order to make money.
It's about the education they can obtain, the standard of living they can maintain and how much political power they wield.
When you're poor you tend to live in neighborhoods that have higher rates of crime, drug violence and gangs.
Your kids go to public schools in areas where property taxes are usually lower so the schools are worse.
You often have to work while obtaining an education so you can't focus on college and you can't focus on learning.
College and higher education is a lot less accessible as well, both financially and in terms of the strength of your application.
If your family has issues with food security, you're always going to be trying to balance your responsibilities with your hunger and all of this adds up to people being limited by much more than just their own hard work.
Rather, there are millions of of tiered issues that all create structural barriers to success and upward mobility.
Wealth redistribution empowers individuals to empower themselves.
Money that comes in from very high taxes on the rich goes into programs and government aid that then go to those were significantly poorer and allows them to change their lives.
Proud to oppose.