Don't adopt blasphemy laws.
James seems to want to use blasphemy laws to target hate speech but we're not sure why we can't just have anti-hate speech laws instead.
He repeatedly compares the two as well which means this is a line he's he's blurring on purpose and we think this is actually really problematic because it means that he's refusing to engage with the actual debate at hand and is instead trying to say " look it'll be the same as this other thing ".
Well, if it's the same as this other thing, let's have a debate about the potential for hate speech laws.
But if we're going to be talking about blasphemy laws, let's talk about what they are.
A way in which people who are religious can target those who want to desecrate that religion by using language in front of them and even if it might be with the intent to harm or without the intent to harm, that is something that we think is going to be massively blurred when it is applied in reality which we'll get into more later.
We also think that hate speech laws are always going to be preferable because they accomplish the same goals without placing religion on a specific pedestal where it needs to be respected above other aspect of society.
In the same way that we think it would be really problematic if there were suddenly laws against talking about how bad debate can be or laws about talking about how bad football is, we think it's also equally bad to have laws against talking about how bad religion is especially since there are infinitely more toxic aspects of religion and toxic communities that are religious than we would say something like debate or football or other things that people tend to place on similar cultural pedestals have.
Two main arguments: first, on protecting free speech.
Blasphemy whether or not you agree with it is an action of free speech.
It is an individual expressing their preferences and beliefs in a way that needs to be protected to prevent government overstep and oppression of members of society.
Moreover, in western liberal democracies having blasphemy laws directly contradicts the right to free speech that is encoded in the majority of constitutions.
Breaking the constitution at the foundation of a nation is really problematic because it breaks down the laws that people have come to expect.
Predictability in the government is really important for citizens because it maintains the relationship between the government and the citizens in a bond of trust that allows the two to mutually coexist and benefit each other.
When the government starts acting unpredictably, citizens stop relying on the benefits and protections that they've come to expect and they stop needing the government in the same way.
They become uncomfortable and want to change it.
This is how you end up with revolts and revolutions.
We also just think that once you have decided that a tenet is like principally important, that principle doesn't go away just because there are groups with competing interests IE, sure we might have to find ways to protect religions but it shouldn't come at the cost of protecting free speech.
Our second argument is about preventing militant religiosity.
Blasphemy laws are a slippery slope because it gives a disproportionate amount of power to to religious individuals since they can assert what they believe is blasphemous.
Intent is really hard to disprove which means this is likely to be a really biased law and in some regions of the united states where you have large populations of specific religion, we think it'll be really difficult to have someone get off for blasphemy when they are accused because of who the jury is likely to be made up of and other such things.
We think the potential for over-use and overstep and abuse is too high to allow the risk and sure, the law might be meant to stop intent but it's about how the law can be applied.
In countries like the united states laws are often applied asymmetrically so even when they have the potential to protect everyone they often get used against a particular group.
Christian groups already have an absurd amount of power in the united states.
Anti-blasphemy laws just give them more to wield against other groups.
Sure, they have the potential to help minority religions but james had to prove that they will help them.
We think insofar as those religions are less likely to have access to the same kind of juries in order to use these laws effectively, you're just letting people call letting christians call people blasphemers to get rid of them or enforce their dogma.
Proud to oppose.