Don't increase wealth redistribution.
Look, the government makes plenty of money in the status quo.
We should focus a lot more on reallocating existing government funds to meet the basic needs of people.
We should also focus on things like free education and free medical health care which would alleviate a lot of sam's concerns about the externalities that people often can't afford when crises occur.
There are also such things that we should fight for that wouldn't have the same problematic consequences as such an extreme act like wealth redistribution.
Like, we think that a lot more people and especially the groups of people that we think are likely to backlash in this situation would be more likely to support things like subsidized health care and subsidized education.
We agree with sam that the current amount of inequality is very problematic.
The question of the round is whether we think this is the way to fix it.
Three main arguments: first, on backlash.
People get really angry about raising taxes every time that it occurs, and this crystallizes in two main ways: first, violence.
These kinds of policies don't just tick off the rich who benefit off of them, it's also the capitalist propaganda that has been incredibly effective against the populations that actually would be benefitted by increased wealth redistribution, but think that they live in a world in which we value freedom and no taxes more than anything else.
You have a lot of people who are of lower class that feel strongly about the principles of small government, low taxes, and the right to property and your own money.
This is because for over a century, they're being fed bullshit about how they could potentially be a part of that elite and how these principles are ones that we have to stand by.
Really, it's just a strategy for the rich to not have to lose any money to good works.
The problem is that there are very few people who haven't been affected by this propaganda, and a very large amount of people who are likely to get really violent and aggressive in response to these kinds of policies.
You're going to have more violence against people who are poor, maybe against homeless people, individuals who access food kitchens.
You're also just more likely to have protests and rallies that might have violent aspects to them, but the second way in which this often crystallizes in responses is long-term more extremist politicians and policies.
People will rally to take their anger to the poll boxes, and they're going to elect those with even more extreme conservative views in order to avoid these policies in the future.
We see these types of policies as personal attacks on their democracy and principles, which means they're going to do their best to protect the democracy they see as being threatened in the future.
This crystallizes in policies like anti-homeless infrastructure, the defunding of public education, the defunding of homeless shelters and food kitchens.
It's actually more likely to be to to harm those like other aspects that sam is so worried about, like they're more likely to be against free healthcare, against free education, because of increased wealth redistribution.
Our second argument is that it's principally unjust.
People do work hard for the money that they earn.
And, sure, some of it is made off of the backs of those who are poor, but that is why we have some amount of taxation.
This is also though, however, why we don't exceed that amount of of taxation, because we recognize that incredibly high taxes would be theft and would be unjustified.
We are really, really willing to raise taxes somewhat and also completely willing to add things like inheritance taxes, which we think would attack the majority of sam's problems, where you have people who are just kind of rich by default because of previous things and have put zero work into being rich, but we would be against having such high wealth redistribution.
Our third argument is about decreasing productivity.
If your tax rate is going to be super high, there isn't an incentive to end up in that economic class, in the first place, and the problem is that these are the people who create jobs.
So, sure, there's no reason they should be making so much more money, but that's the reward they've gotten used to for doing things that are good for the economy.
A really good example of this would be elon musk, who talks about how he created all these jobs via space_x, and even though we might hate him, he's right.
Sam worries about the efficiency with which rich people spend their money.
A lot of them just invest their money to maximize their assets, so even if some of it is done inefficiently, we think that this is marginal.
Proud to oppose.