Don't ban corporal punishment in the home.
We already have laws against child abuse, so clearly there's a difference between the two.
We think that if the parent can show that they aren't using physical force but are rather just using corporal punishment in a mild way as part of their disciplinary action, that isn't something the government should get involved with.
It doesn't hurt a kid to get spanked every now and then, but it is an overstep on the part of the government to over involve itself in the way that parents raise their children.
Two main arguments, first on the way in which banning corporal punishment is a slippery slope, because we think that what happens on their side of the house is that corporal punishment becomes an umbrella term.
There is a line between corporal punishment and abuse.
Abuse is much more physically harsh and heavy.
It occurs arbitrarily, often with no reason that specifically incites it or, at least, not a logical one, and the majority of the time the kind of damage that it invokes is much harsher in that it is much more likely to leave bruises and other long-term marks, and it is something that usually leaves the person in pain for a significant amount of time.
Meanwhile, corporal punishment occurs in response to an action that requires a punishment.
It is much more metered and doesn't have long-term bruising or scarring the way that abuse often does.
James says that it never gets used for adults and that's just a reason to not use it for kids.
We think this is nonsense.
We think the reason that corporal punishment gets used for kids is also the reason it doesn't get used for adults in that corporal punishment is necessary in order to help mold the individual's moral compass and decision-making calculi.
An adult is assumed to have already developed these kinds of things, whereas children are in the process of developing them.
When a child is punished because they are spanked or hit with a flip flop, that is something that is tells the child, " look, what you just did is wrong. "
And, sure, the reasoning and the logic might come later but what is important, at the moment, is instilling this kind of immediate response of, " this thing was bad, do not do this thing. "
We also just don't think this is very analogous because even if we don't hit prisoners with rods, we do do things like lock them in a room without any anyone else there for days at a time in solitary confinement, which is infinitely more likely to be damaging.
We also just think that a lot of the time, these aren't arbitrary differences, because develop the development is something that is like different between the two, but also because sometimes you need to teach a negative feedback loop quickly, like when a kid does something potentially dangerous like hurting a sibling or playing with a stove.
We also just don't think there are long-term effects.
Like, yes, this happens if actual abuse is happening, but getting spanked every now and then doesn't teach you to be abusive or prevent you from participation in society.
James doesn't draw the line clearly enough.
He seems to be talking about actual abuse, not just corporal punishment.
The long-term impacts are very different.
Our second argument is about parental rights.
We recognize that parents should have control over the way their children are raised.
This isn't codified in law, but it is codified in our social acceptances and behaviors.
This is why we don't support the government taking away children and raising them all the same way, and also why we frown on parents being told how to raise their children in other ways.
Like, we all hear the story of the one mom who was told by another mom how she should tell her children to behave, and we always sympathize with the initial woman, because we recognize that that's an overstep on the part of someone else to tell her how to raise her children.
But also, parents suffer for the children they create.
Mothers spend nine months literally growing a parasite.
You pour thousands of dollars into growing the kid, feeding them, housing them, and you deserve to exert some control over that child as long as it isn't objectively harmful.
Proud to oppose.