We shouldn't subsidize adult learners.
Two main arguments: first, about accounting for need within education systems.
Recognize that money always trades off.
If we subsidize adult learners, that's always going to be money that could have gone somewhere else which means that we have to evaluate which fields are more important and need the money more before we take the action of choosing what to subsidize.
We think that subsidization of undergraduate education is always most important especially compared to subsidizing adult education.
Given that we haven't even gotten around to subsidizing that yet, we don't think we should be paying for adults until then.
This is because undergraduates need that education more.
Adults already had their chance at an education, they usually already have a job even if they're looking to further themselves in a different way, and we think that young adults haven't gotten that opportunity yet.
They have a much more pressing need to get to the job market because they are younger and don't have any work background before then to rely on and they also are competing for a very different time and have to be alive for longer.
So we probably need to make sure that they are taken care of because they're just going to be providing for the economy more, providing for themselves for a longer period of time and we should be prioritizing those kind of impact-based outcomes as well.
We also just think that undergraduate education is a better investment since people educated as young adults will be able to participate in the jobs they are treating for for a much longer period of time than older adults training for the same degrees.
These adult learners are also at a disadvantage because once they enter the job markets employers tend to prefer younger workers and actually won't even hire individuals who are of an older age a lot of the time.
So we think from the perspective of which subsidization gets a better return on your investment, it's always going to be younger ones and as such in additional not needing it as much, adult learners are just a significantly riskier investment.
The government should opt to invest in individuals who are going to provide a higher rate of return.
Our second argument is about why this isn't the job of the government.
The government needs to serve the public good but it serves according to necessity and impact.
It isn't enough just to do things that are good for people.
You have to recognize that insofar as you have a limited number of funds and a limited ability to take action, you have to make sure that your actions are impacting as many citizens as possible at a time and we think that there are just always going to be more undergraduates and like more younger people who need education compared to adults but more than that, we think that the government even if they prove to you that subsidizing adult learners has benefits for those adults, has to show you why those benefits are large for society as a whole given that this is money that is collected from taxes and from shared funds that are provided by all of society not just by adult learners to pay for themselves and they have to prove moreover that it is worth forgoing other benefits that that money could bring.
We think that in the hierarchy of needs and what people need most, the government should be worrying about more intense and immediate needs of the population such as hunger and shelter before it even touches education because these are the things that are actually most pressing and are most facilitative to our future success of our future desires.
It is just not the case that I could even attend an education if I'm hungry or if I'm without a home so we think the government makes needs to make sure those are provided first.
Proud to oppose.