We shouldn't end agricultural subsidies.
James is right.
We are going to say that the US should only care about its own farmers.
The bad effects of the initial economic policies that have already happened don't matter at this point.
Right?
Like stopping subsidies won't reverse those impacts because they won't cause mexico to increase its agricultural sector, but it will significantly harm the united states.
Maybe we can have a debate about whether agricultural subsidies should have initially occurred but that is not today's round.
James makes this really weird argument about the environment that I want to deal with now.
Like, we're really unclear on what his alternative is.
Right?
Like we still need food to be produced, it just means you're switching that land to a different location.
Because recognize that the US isn't going to magically stop buying as much food.
The population is only growing.
Our needs continue to grow.
Just because you have less agricultural sector in the US doesn't mean that's going to get reflected in terms of the overall land that's going to get used, because we're going to now just start importing more in order to make up for the stuff that we're not producing ourselves.
This means you're increasing the amount of amount of land used elsewhere which means your net effect on the environment is exactly the same.
This is just not something you could ever win off of for side government.
Two arguments, first on supporting farmers.
We think it's really important that farmers get provided with a consistent income.
Without subsidies farming is a really risky endeavor.
You can't rely on consistent income because it depends on your harvest, which depends on tons of uncontrollable factors like the weather and the soil that year.
You also don't get consistent income over time because you don't reap harvests consistently over the year.
It's not like other jobs where you get a monthly paycheck.
With farming you plant at the beginning of the summer and wait months to get a harvest that will pay off all at once, before once again not being paid for a really long amount of time as you wait for the next season.
This is bad because it means that people don't want to go into farming because they're going to want to be able to have a reliable income that allows them to live a standard of living and quality of life that is higher than what the amount of money farming provides does.
And the ones who do are going to spend a lot time struggling which we also think is bad.
We want people to be farmers because we need them to grow food for the nation and we can facilitate that occurring by making sure that they know we have their back.
It makes people comfortable being farmers when farming subsidies exist.
We also just think it supports the smaller sectors of the farm economy which allows them to become competitive, both within the united states against large corporate farms, but also on the on the global market.
Right now it's really hard for small farms to compete because they have less resources and less infrastructure.
Farming subsidies provide them with the support to do so.
Our second argument is about food prices.
It makes the price of domestic food cheaper, which allows domestic food to be competitive with foreign goods.
This is positive for two reasons: first about jobs.
Importing food from foreign countries doesn't create domestic jobs the way that growing our own agricultural sector does.
This is good also because farming jobs tend not to require an education the way that other jobs do which, in a country that is moving constantly towards an ever closer mandating college education in order to get a job, we think it's really important for the individuals who don't want to go to college or don't see that as something they need.
But the second reason it's really good is because it promotes food independence.
We think it's bad to be overly dependent on foreign imports for something as important as food because it means that other countries control the well being of american citizens.
So if they decide to raise prices for any number of reasons we won't be prepared to deal with it because we don't have a strong enough agricultural sector to take on the extra strain, even short term.
This might happen in situations of conflict.
Like recognize in american foreign policy haven't been particularly favorable recently.
So depending on other countries is always going to come with that added risk, which we think is not worth it.
It's also because if there's a drought or other disaster in anyone's countries and prices increase because of things outside of anyone's control, it's good to have something to rely on.
Proud to oppose.