We shouldn't ban attack ads.
Three main arguments: first, on free speech.
I think a lot of government's advocacy is going to be about how attack ads are distasteful and about the way in which they portray individuals in an unfair light and in a disbalanced manner and also probably about the way in which this distorts public opinion such that they are focusing on these tangential details rather than the main brunt of the individual's campaign.
But I think that even if all of these things are true, it's not about whether or not attack ads are good.
It's about whether or not attack ads are something that we have the right to ban in the first place.
We all agree that generally saying harmful, mean things to someone is bad but we never ban that thing because we recognize that it is the right of someone to say it regardless of whether or not it is harmful as long as it doesn't breach certain other standards that we don't think that the government can prove attack ads breach.
We think that it is within people's rights to show them either way even if they're distasteful given that they aren't actually lies, they are just specifically framed truths.
Things that are blatant lies can get prosecuted in court as slander or libel and since these things aren't allowed, we don't think that attack ads fall into those categories or else they would have already been banned and attack ads that do would be banned under our side of the house.
We're talking about the attack ads that are literally just expressions of things that are true but in the attack ad format and we think at the point that that's what we're discussing that's not something that you can ban from a constitutional perspective.
Our second argument is that attack ads are useful.
We think that people who have done things worthy of attacks ought to be attacked because the general populace deserves to know about those situations.
It is likely that government talked about how these attack ads exaggerate problems and unfairly fool the public into having a distorted image of the candidate but even if this has some truth to it, it is also true that attack ads do portray information that would otherwise not come forward which is relevant to the general public insofar as it has implications to how those politicians would act in office and I think even if it is the case that these might be smaller details, they are still viable details, right?
Like we can have a debate over whether it is good that there are certain things that get blown up in campaigns more than others but that's going to happen either way.
Like even without attack ads you have individuals fixating on certain parts of a candidate's policy or certain parts of a candidate's campaign that doesn't influence then whether or not like that's something that is a good or a bad thing to happen but it is true that the public deserves to have the opportunity to fixate either way because they need to know all of this information about politicians who are then going to try and represent them.
Our third argument is about slippery slippery slope policy.
We think that the line for what an attack ad is is a very thin one and it's very likely that a ban on attack ads opens up the door for bans on speech in general where like maybe the more dominant political party can call something an attack ad when it's coming from the less dominant one even if it isn't in reality and this can be used as a form of policing that would actually be really damaging to minority interests in the long term.
We think at the end of the day, anything can be staged as an attack ad if you're trying to approach it from that perspective so we just don't want to give people that excuse in the first place.
Proud to oppose.