Blood donation shouldn't be mandatory.
Government probably talked a lot about how good blood donation is and how it can help a lot of people but we don't think this matters because we can't prioritize the benefit of others over the rights of individuals to choose whether to give up a physical part of themselves.
We're really happy with the idea of heavily encouraging and supporting blood donation, we just think it is problematic to mandate it.
Two main arguments: first, on autonomy.
First recognize that there are actually quite large impacts on the donor from having to participate in blood donations.
They're not able to do things like participate in strenuous activities, a lot of people get really bad reactions and it's not just about like some light dizziness.
Like I'm sure that government down-played a lot of these symptoms and talked about how people will be physically fine but recognize that there are often very aggressive nausea and dizziness and it can actually put someone out of commission for days and mandating this on a regular basis and especially since these symptoms aren't just constant, right?
Like people don't always know how they're going to respond from time to time can really harm people's productivity and ability to like participate in existence.
But even if it's not true that these impacts exist, we think that generally the government needs to fundamentally respect citizen autonomy.
This will always trump any of government's arguments about the utilitarian calculus because utilitarianism is an awful underlying framework for how we should do things.
You can't just go sacrificing individual rights for the sake of other citizens because it creates a slippery slope where there are millions like of limits to general autonomy that could help the general population but we don't agree with it because it's still rights violative and that's a preference and a principle that has to prevail.
Like having slaves generates a lot of income for the government that can benefit society but we don't think that because protecting we don't think that we ought like have slaves because protecting people's rights is more important than the productivity that they can generate.
Even if donating to blood donating blood might not seem like a big deal, we have to acknowledge that there are other people out there for whom it is a big deal because all the government can do is average these kind of desires or average these kinds of preferences but we recognize that the government doesn't represent every single individual opinion.
So for a lot of people it's not just a pint of blood and some water, it's about the amount of time that they have to spend, the side effects they have, the religion they might be violating, and also recognize that giving blood usually is not a matter of saving someone's life since people who need blood most get it first.
It's usually just moderate discomfort or a longer waiting time and we don't think that it's worth violating so many people's rights to alleviate some of that discomfort.
Our second argument is about political consequences.
We think that you're setting a really dangerous legal precedent with these kinds of policies.
It propagates the idea that you can just force people to give up personal parts of themselves for the benefits of others.
It like propagate the idea that it's okay to mandate these kinds of invasive procedures and the idea that it's okay to collect that information about someone in the first place.
Like we acknowledge that blood shortages can be a problem but we don't think that they're a problem for long.
We're in the process of doing things like inventing synthetic blood and we can encourage individual people choosing to give blood on their own to increase the net amount of available blood and like stress this especially in times of crises or need and we think that it's possible then to generate enough blood without forcing people into donation which is something we'd really like to avoid especially since the privacy risk is actually really high since when you donate blood it gets tested and this does everything from providing information about what drugs you're using, what diseases you have and we just don't think that individuals should be forced to out themselves especially since they can't guarantee that the information will remain private and the fact that the government then gets access to all this information is even more dangerous.
Proud to oppose.