Don't introduce a smoking ban.
Two main arguments: first, on promoting freedom and least restrictive means.
The united states is built on the idea protecting individual autonomy and freedom.
This includes the right to make decisions that are bad for your health because we recognize that every individual can decide whether the consequences are worth it because every person has their own way in calculusing priorities while the government can only generalize generalize across the entire population.
This is why the government doesn't ban things like extreme sports or diet drinks.
These things are also bad for you in every meaningful way but that's not enough to ban something.
People can decide that the benefits they derive from cigarettes outweigh the lower life expectancy.
People can weigh pros and cons for themselves and decide whether the benefits they personally or worth it for them individually.
It's also important because the risk of government overstep when it starts paternalizing is so high that this is a slippery slope we shouldn't go down.
Sure, it starts with banning cigarettes, but once we accept more lax standards to to paternalism it becomes an excuse for the government to extend that to other things that are less objectively wrong.
It's not about what you ban more about the logic you use for banning it and we don't want the logic behind banning cigarettes to get generalized to other things IE we think this is bad for our citizens therefore we ban it, can be something that can be applied to a lot of things that we probably don't want banned because we see that as something that is a viable way of self-actualization and self-realization.
James makes an argument about secondhand smoke.
Yeah, we think this is very problematic but we don't think it should be enough to ban because in order for the effects of secondhand smoke to take hold you have to be exposed to it multiple times and fairly consistently.
This is why the children of heavy smokers are often at risk but if I'm standing outside and someone's smoking next to me next to a bar, I'm probably not that much at risk as soon as I'm outside of their purview.
So maybe this is something we should look over with like child welfare services.
Like maybe we should have stricter regulations on people children and whether or not they can smoke but it's not a reason to completely ban smoking for everybody.
Our second argument is about the re-glamorization of cigarettes.
We're already nearing a world without cigarettes because of our educational efforts.
We have been spending more than a decade forcing warning labels on packets, showing advertisements with people who have lost their lungs, and showing the to cancer and the incorporation of anti-cigarette learning in schools occurred as well which has made a massive dent in the numbers.
Placing a ban glamorizes the action.
This is why we often see more young people drinking in excess in countries with higher drinking ages than in countries with lower drinking ages because once you make something illegal it speaks to the rebellious part of teenagers and they want to do it more.
It is smarter to just continue on the same path that we started and let our educational institutions do the work for us.
Anyone left who continues to smoke is making their own bad decisions and has clearly been exposed to reality already.
This also directly responds to james argument about people not making good decisions.
Like we help them make better decisions through education and not making something attractively taboo, right?
This is the way that we've approached literally the majority of things that people do with their lives.
We say that maybe this isn't the best thing, here are the reasons why.
We don't just take it away from them because we recognize that when you take something away without the logic behind it, people miss it and want it back.
Proud to oppose.