We should support a phase out of lightweight plastic bags.
Or model is really simple.
We think that individual companies should stop using them and stop providing them to other people.
They should provide either paper bags or reusable bags.
A lot of time this already happens in the status quo where we see that grocery stores are offering ten cent reusable bags literally at the register area so people can choose to take those grocery bags rather than a accumulating more and more plastic bags.
After a period of time we think complete ban would be justified once we've like phased it out slowly enough that we can adjust to that.
Two main arguments, first on protecting the environment.
Recognize the plastic bags aren't biodegradable.
This means they spend centuries laying in landfills and in the ocean, they interfere with wildlife when small animals consume them or get wrapped up in them and when they finally do degrade, if that ever occurs, they release dangerous chemicals that then seep into the groundwater or into those same oceans that they were in before and continue to have these kinds of harmful effects of like poisoning the nearby wildlife, poisoning the plants that are growing in that area and poisoning anyone who comes in contact with those things.
People also go through an absurd amount of plastic bags per day because you use them for all groceries and other purchases without consideration for all of the dangers that they pose to the environment.
And the worst part of this is that there is nothing that makes plastic bags uniquely good or uniquely important.
This isn't like with plastic straws where we recognize that for people who are disabled in specific manners metal or reusable or non or having no straw at all is something that is unrealistic because of the kind of specific benefits that plastic straws provide over these other options.
But with plastic bags the kind of people who are using them, who are like going grocery shopping and getting plastic bags or going clothing shopping, these are people who have the complete capability to get reusable bags or to use paper bags because they're able enough to get to that store.
They are able enough to have carried those bags out, meaning they could have carried them in.
Like the same amount of effort that goes into keeping some reusable bags around, or even if you're reusing old plastic bags, is negligible and can be done by literally anyone who's buying their own groceries.
Our second argument is about creating individual responsibility and good habits.
The problem in the status quo is that people don't think twice before using plastic bags or other similar one time use plastic items.
We need to start teaching people better habits so that they can long term create a more sustainable world, and that starts with actions like phasing out plastic bags.
Because right now although it's really easy for people to make the shift on their own to reusable or paper bags, they choose not to out of convenience and out of a lack of impetus.
Because the companies aren't taking it on to themselves to force people to do it.
And this is absolutely a selfish decision.
It's the choice of an individual to prioritize minute amounts of comfort above the environment and sustainability.
So we have to push people into making the correct decision because they have repeatedly shown that they are incapable of coming to the correct conclusion on their own.
We think this is easy for companies to do.
It also is something that is like long term cheaper for companies to do, we think, because they can make some profit off of selling reusable bags and also no longer have to buy massive amounts of plastic bags to fulfill the fact that customers are constantly using them up.
And we think at the point that this just removes literally millions of plastic bags from the general environment where they repeatedly get thrown out and stops the production of them from occurring as well, because once people aren't using them them as much you're not producing as many either, we think this is a net benefit.
Proud to propose.