We should ban corporal punishment in the home.
Our model's fairly simple.
We want a ladder of punishments where, maybe, first offenders get a fine, second offenders get a higher fine, maybe third offenders get a court hearing and maybe some jail time, so on so forth.
The technicalities, we don't think, are super important, but what is important is that we think that corporal punishment shouldn't be happening, and we think the government should be getting involved in regulating that.
Two main arguments, first on it being better for child development.
We know from research and studies that corporal punishment doesn't work.
Children often don't make the connection between the punishment and what they did wrong.
Lot of the time it just teaches them to fear their parents and other figures of authority.
Kids learn to lie and hide their mistakes rather than facing things head on and fixing them.
And even when it doesn't cause active harm to development, the way that enforcing better behavior could have been done, that would replace corporal punishment, are always better and always going to have better impacts as well.
So, like, there are a couple of like other options such as taking the child aside, like talking to them about the mistake they made and why it was bad, " logicking " it through.
Alternatively, you can do things that don't involve physical violence so that you're not teaching the child that, sure, even like light violence is okay.
And all of these are bound to have better impacts, even if corporal punishment doesn't necessarily cause a detriment, but we do think it does.
Our second argument is on preventing child abuse.
All corporal punishment is fundamentally child abuse.
We're just living at this generational crossroads at which the older generation doesn't see it as such, and the younger generation is beginning to understand exactly how damaging physical abuse, of any kind, of children can be.
When you ban corporal punishment you do two things.
First, you make people simply less likely to do it because they don't want to get fined or worse, so they are more likely to avoid the action in the first place.
But, in the very least, you stop the worst of it, because maybe some corporal punishment might occur when no one is watching, like maybe a kid gets spanked every now and then or gets slapped with a flip flop, but at least the people will try to keep it quieter and less noticeable.
And this in itself is enough, because we help to prevent what is likely to be the worst kind of suffering or the worst kind of .
The second thing that occurs is that you start changing the culture and world view around corporal punishment.
It stops being seen as a personal decision on the part of parents and starts being seen for what it is: violence against individuals who are too young and weak to defend themselves in any meaningful way.
Recognize that illegality lends an aura of disapproval.
The government holds a lot of power over the opinions of the general public in that labeling something illegal de facto labels that activity as problematic and bad.
So banning corporal punishment is the first step to spreading the mind view more broadly that corporal punishment inherently is bad.
We want to end this thing where people think that it is the parental right to choose.
We want to end this thing in which we think that there's a difference between corporal punishment and abuse, because we want to recognize that both of these things, even hard abuse and light corporal punishment, create the same kind of patterns within the children that within the children that they affect of seeing violence as an answer, of seeing their parents as violent authority figures, and of fearing their parents rather than learning to trust them and go to them when things are bad.
Proud to propose.