Don't ban live exports.
First and foremost our side of the house is fine with putting more limitations and regulations on life exports, but in general we think the current regulations are effective and they do a good job at preventing the spread of invasive species and diseases.
As long as we're doing an effective job we don't think there's any reason to ban it outright.
So we think that danny has essentially already lost this round because he never actually pointed out where he thinks the current miss misaction is coming from, right?
Like he tells us that there is a potential for spread of diseases but he doesn't point out why the current system is enough.
He just keeps repeating that we ought be risk averse in general.
We think this is a really bad standard to have, the idea that if there's the potential risk for something bad you ought not do that thing at all even if there are ways to minimize that risk is a really bad framework for how to evaluate these kinds of situations.
Because it would prevent us from accessing many many benefits from so many things given their like potential cons, even if those cons are very very unlikely.
We think you need to assess probability when you decide these kinds of things ie sure there might be some bad risks, but if those bad risks are improbable or if there's a way to prevent them from occurring we think that you still ought do the thing given the benefits that it has.
With that, two main arguments about the benefits, first on the economy.
It facilitates a very different type of trade between nations which diversifies the economy and promotes globalization.
Because sure you can have trading in plants and certain kinds of like vegetarian foods and you can have trading in dead meat but there's a very big difference between trading foodstuff and trading livestock just because first the market audience that you are giving it to like the people who consume these kinds of trades but also in terms of the amount of money that you're putting into it, in terms of which kinds of people you're engaging, and the country that is producing these kinds of exports.
If we think that these kinds of jobs are really different from anything else that can exist and so that makes it something that is good for the economy and diversification there of.
It also creates jobs specific to live animals rather than just a transporting meat and given that these are all net positives and a ban would actively destroy all those jobs and interactions we think this is a reason in and of itself to not do that.
We also just think the problem becomes that there would have to find a way to replace all of those jobs and all of those niches which we think is very problematic because we live in a world where finding a stable job is already something that is quite difficult.
And moreover if you are someone who has worked in this industry you'll likely fulfilling the kind of demographic that probably didn't have a higher education, probably like has existed in that sphere for awhile because this is the kind of trade job in transferring those people to different fields is really really difficult given their level of education and given the specialization of their training.
So we think that what happens when you ban live exports is just that you're leaving all of these people floating around with no ability to provide for themselves or their families.
Our second argument is about necessity.
If people want to start herds in other places, if you're trying to gift live animals to people who want to grow their own herds, if you want fresh meat, all of these are legitimate reasons for there to be a need to transfer live animals.
And we think at the point that that need exists, we should be able to fill it.
We don't think this is actually that cruel.
Sure animal do get caged for awhile but that happens in the status quo on land as well so there isn't something unique about the sea that makes it worse.
We also just don't think it can be that bad because you can't risk killing the animal without ruining your profit so you have to make sure that the conditions you're transporting them in are at least humane enough to keep them alive.
Proud to oppose.