The motion for today's debate is that we should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why the government ought not support such a toxic habit.
Smoking of tobacco, or even the chewing or any sort of intake of tobacco, literally kills people.
If you're smoking it, it fills your lungs with tar and causes harsh sicknesses such as cancer and therefore oftentimes an early death and if you're chewing, it does the same thing but to your mouth.
Either way this is something that is completely destructive and takes years off of people's lives.
More than this, tobacco groups often target impoverished areas because they know that they are more susceptible to this kind of thing and it pushes down on those who are already disadvantage.
This create this is first economically harmful, because it creates a less productive on net society, if people are dying earlier because they're smoking, it means they are spending more of their time being sick and less of their time working and being productive members of society, but also it sends this money straight back to the tobacco industry in a way that doesn't actually circle within individual regional markets.
So it's not economically preferable.
At the point that we understand all of this, it is both economically and personally destructive, we think that it's preferable to have a world in which tobacco didn't exist at all.
Thus we think it's a problem when a government would subsidize it because it makes the government directly culpable for the harms that are caused and more than this, it makes the government someone that is like assumably agreeing or supporting what the tobacco industry then does.
Because if I am to pay money say to a campaign, it is me issuing my support for it.
We think the same kind of message gets sent when the government subsidizes tobacco.
It's basically saying the effects that you have, the things that this industry does, we support and we are okay with it.
Unfortunately this doesn't suit the government's purpose.
If the government is created in order to support the citizens and protect citizens, it is a problem then that it engages with industries that are actively damaging to their citizens.
In order to prevent what is essentially a circle of corruption, we think that the government ought ought no longer subsidize them.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why this money would be better spent elsewhere.
We think that at the point that you spend so much on cultivating something damaging we would prefer it to be doing good.
Recognize that you could subsidize literally anything and it would be preferable to that of tobacco.
So green energy, which would not only open up new economic markets but also actually save our planet so that it would be habitable for longer and so that people would be able to be safe for longer, would be preferable to something that instead kills them.
Let's say, also putting this money into subsidizing healthcare or welfare or planned parenthood.
Any of these things create a more productive society rather than a less productive society but also fulfill the government's duty much better insofar it is the responsibility of the government to first, be like be a patron of their citizens, and only second be that to the industry.
This brings us to a small third point of clash, which is essentially that we think that when the government involves themselves with tobacco industries it is a form of corruption.
Because recognize that if the government is supposed to be beholden to their citizens they ought not be creating cycles in which they are partially dependent on on industries that are actively damaging to them.
So in situations where the government is is involving themselves at the tobacco industry it is essentially saying that we value the tobacco industry more than our citizens.
It is going to make us more money in the long term.
This is a corrupting factor that ought not exist in order to have a true democracy.
We think that until the government stops fraternizing with upper with the upper class and other corporations you cannot have a true democratic government.
For these reasons proud to propose.