We should support water privatization.
Our model is that we think that this is something we would prefer to see established worldwide.
Governments will contract out water provision and distribution to private companies, they can choose to sell it to a few different companies like we don't really care about how the exact mechanics work out those are pros and cons that can be debated later.
The point of this is just that we will have private rather than public ownership of water.
To main arguments, first on promoting saving water.
Op's main argument is going to be about how privatization will cause the cost of water to rise.
Honestly we think this is a good thing.
In the status quo people treat water like some infinite source and don't pay nearly enough attention to conserving it.
Making the cost higher will force people to actually treat water like the limited resource that it is.
We need to change the way that people see water so that they actively start using less and start looking for alternatives.
We think the problem in the status quo is that a lot of the water that people use isn't even water they need.
What we mean by this is that sure, water per gallon might cost more, but insofar as that cost is just going to materialize in people using water less where they didn't need it anyway, we think that that's okay.
Right?
Like the fact that now they're going to be leaving not like not leave the sink on while they're brushing their teeth, which is something that large swaths the population do, is good.
We think the harm that comes financially is marginal because the cost of water won't rise super high.
We think, rather, and moreover, we think that a lot of people won't even feel it passed just forcing them to stop wasting it where they weren't really using it properly in the first place.
Our second argument is about increased efficiency of water distribution.
The private sector is more efficient than the public sector.
First because it is less bureaucratic, there are simply less layers before you get to the individuals who call the shots, but second because there are less varied responsibilities.
You get to focus on water provision rather than being one branch of a government that has to focus on a million other duties as well.
They also have a profit incentive.
They're going to want to cut loss as much as possible.
So they have an actual incentive to make systems of provision and distribution more efficient in a way that the government simply does not care.
This becomes especially important in countries with weaker governments.
Op will come up here and talk about how corporations might not provide water to poor areas.
But they forget that in plenty of countries the government is already failing to provide water to those areas.
If anything corporations are more likely to do something about this in order to make some money off them.
Right?
They're going to want to reach out to as many potential customers as possible.
So even if the quality of service is worse to make that profit off of people who are poor it's preferable to the status quo where nothing goes for those areas at all and the government doesn't strong enough to change and make it better.
This is why we want privatization even if water in the mainstream becomes a little more expensive.
Because we care about increasing access more broadly than we care about the individual person's cost.
This is especially true since we recognize that the average person consumes much more water than they need to between bathing, cooking and actually drinking water.
The worst case scenario on gov's side is that people are going to be more mindful of where they don't need water, which as we told you in our first argument is actually really really good.
So insofar as this is going to make sure that more people have access to water and insofar as it makes us treat water more mindfully as we look for alternatives to fulfill the needs of the general population, proud to propose.