We should introduce a smoking ban.
Our model is just that we would ban smoking cigarettes.
We think they're uniquely bad because smoking is more glamorized than things like chewing tobacco or other forms of tobacco intake but also we think that we're open to a world in which we ban those things as well but in this debate we specifically want to discuss cigarettes.
Two main arguments: first, on justification for paternalism.
Op will come up here and they're going to talk about how the government shouldn't paternalize people and we should allow as much freedom as possible but we recognize that the government doesn't grant freedom infinitely, that sometimes the government has to step in and protect the population from their own decisions.
This is why harder drugs like cocaine, methamphetamine, etcetera are all banned as well as why medicinal drugs have to go through strict approval processes before they can be used.
This occurs for two main reasons: first, an asymmetry of information.
Companies that produce drugs seek to make a profit and often know much more about the drugs than they are that they are selling than what they inform the public about.
They use malicious targeted advertising and obfuscate bad side effects in an effort to sell as much of their product as possible but our second reason is that there's an inability on the part of the average person to contextualize certain damages.
Even if you know the idea of addiction, it's really difficult to internalize what being addicted long term and what that might do to your life actually looks like until you've experienced it.
This is why it's so easy for someone to take a cigarette and say I'll only smoke one and then find themselves developing a long term habit.
What used to be just maybe all smoke one with my friends outside becomes I am the friend who is leading other people outside and these kinds of these kinds of transitions are really pernicious which we think is quite damaging.
So this is why the government has the right to paternalize.
But recognize that if you think that's not enough, there's a second layer to this.
Cigarettes don't just hurt the person who's who's like smoking them initially.
Secondhand smoke is something that damages the people surrounding them as well.
We think the fact that there are overflow effects is justification enough for the government to ban them because even if the initial person who smokes cigarettes consents to the effects, the individuals surrounding them never do.
Our second argument is about preventing long term addiction and health damages.
Cigarettes are equally if not more harmful than a lot of the currently banned drugs because they do things like kill you off by destroying your lungs and causing heart cancer and heart causing lung cancer and heart disease but also because they create a long term addiction that keeps you coming back for more very similarly to the way that harder drugs do.
It harms both the individual who uses them and the people around them as we mentioned with secondhand smoke that creates a risk of cancer and other diseases in people who have never personally smoked a cigarette.
So we think it is good for the state to prevent individuals from getting addicted in the first place.
If we institute a ban now we can prevent the next generation from ever starting to experience cigarettes in the first place because oftentimes the glamorization of cigarettes passes from older to younger so on so forth because you see individuals who you look up to smoking cigarettes so you choose to try them yourself when you are someone who is younger.
Decreasing that glamorization by banning it and making it illegal is something that we think will become most effective at eradicating cigarette use entirely.
Proud to propose.