Motorcycle helmets shouldn't be mandatory.
We're not going to argue that it isn't better for individuals to wear helmets rather we think that this is a debate about the role of the government and the impact of these kinds of laws.
This means that gov can't just win by proving that people should wear their helmets, they have to win by proving that a law is the best way to increase helmet wearing in the first place and that even if that law does increase the amount of people who wear helmets, that you can't have that same impact through other means that doesn't also have active detriments to the individuals who get caught.
Two main arguments: first, on allowing personal choice.
People should be able to do whatever they want as long as it hurts only themselves and not others around them.
This is because we live in a democratic society that prioritizes individual freedom and choice.
Choosing to do something dangerous for yourself is one of those rights.
This is also true because people can consent to harm on their own behalf but can't do so on the behalf of others.
Not wearing a helmet is the definition of something that only harms the person taking the action since it is meant to protect only them.
I cannot harm someone else by choosing not to wear a helmet anymore than they would have been harmed by your average car crash.
It is only an action that is meant to keep me from further damage and insofar as that is true and I should have autonomy over my own body and over my own like future infliction of damage, we think that that's something that you cannot regulate because it only hurts this one individual.
Finally though, we think this is also true because the government can't imagine on behalf of individuals what the benefit someone might personally acquire from a particular action is.
They can only aggregate an average and decide on net whether the action is good or bad.
What I mean by this is that when the government is setting policy they think about what the average person feels.
So perhaps it is true that on aggregate wearing a helmet is worth more for someone than not.
Like the benefit that someone accrues from not wearing the helmet just isn't super high then we and we think that usually that person would defer to wearing a helmet when they know the risks.
But this person is only an average, is only a majority and we think that when you look at the fact that individuals come from widely different contexts and wildly different preferences, this isn't an average that you can just willy nilly slap on the population and call a law, rather it's something that you have to recognize can be solved for in the context of the average so you can tell the majority of individuals why they ought wear a helmet and they will but not something that you could resolve in the more specific situations.
Finally though, we think the other problem here is that individuals can weigh the pros and cons of an action and decide that the benefit they personally acquire outweighs the potential damage even if the government decides that it is usually a bad thing.
This is why we need to prioritize things like education because even if it is true that we want to protect people we also don't want to step on people's rights at the same time and the best way to do that is to educate people about potential harms without actually removing their rights.
Our second argument is about preventing poor legal consequences.
These laws don't actually meaningfully change people's behavior in majority of situations.
Maybe people who didn't feel like putting on helmets will put them on now but if you simply don't own or can't afford that helmet for everyone who uses your motorcycle, your behavior won't change because the influence isn't just legality, it is all these other outside factors.
This means that you're just slapping people with excessive fines or putting them in jail but you're not changing the outcome in terms of safety for those people and this means that people end up poorer or in jail but that's actually really problematic because these people could be continuing being real members of society and instead they won't be.
Proud to oppose.