Don't support water privatization.
First addressing tim's argument about small government.
We just think this is silly and an appeal to your conservative tending tendencies.
We think it's very clear that sometimes you need the government to take on certain chores for the population, such as education where we saw that we just don't trust private corporations to do it effectively.
So even if the government has faults when it does it and even if we have to put money into it we still think it's worth it because it prevents us from having to rely on fundamentally unreliable private corporations.
We think that water is really similar.
It's a resource that everybody depends on much too much to rely on systems that aren't going to supply it efficiently and aren't going to supply reliably.
We recognize that those corporations don't have individuals' best interest at heart while the government, even when it doesn't act like it does, principally has to.
So at least there are more mechanisms by which we can call out that bad action.
Two main arguments, first on maintaining egalitarian water distribution.
Recognize that the government has a vested interest in making sure that everyone gets water regardless of location.
This is because the government has literally signed on to things like the implicit social contract, but also explicit laws that they signed into play that mandate that water needs to be something that is available and learning is available at a relatively cheap price.
Private companies are always going to balance the cost of the location with the profit they're going to make so if an area is hard to reach in a way that makes unprofitable, that area is likely to just not receive water in governments world.
We think this is really damaging because as literally everybody knows water is one of the things that people require most.
More than they require food, more than they require sleep, all of these things combined.
Our second argument is about maintaining low water cost.
Tim is just wrong.
Costs won't decrease with private ownership.
The logic of this is really simple: private corporations have a profit incentive that the government doesn't.
So sure, maybe at first it'll be a slightly lower price because of competition but once that company has established itself as owning the water in that area they'll just push the price up as soon as they've established a natural monopoly.
Meanwhile on our side of the house the government can mandate a cap on the price of water to make sure that it's accessible to the average person.
We have to recognize exactly how necessary water is to existence.
Like I told you you're literally going to die faster without water then without food.
But also you also need that to do things like clean your house, bathe, like maintain general good hygiene that prevents the spread of disease in other ways.
Like maintain a sewage system is operational.
Like this isn't just about whether you get water delivered to your house that you get to drink.
This is also about every other little function of society that uses water as a lubricant for that function.
We need to make sure that it's accessible in order to prevent things like higher rates of disease and people getting sick.
I really don't like this argument about competition because it's just not the way this market is going to evolve.
Recognize that this is only going to matter at the beginning, but water provision is a natural monopoly because it is regional based so whoever owns the pipes in a certain region is going to earn the own the water there.
Like you can't have one company that owns the multiple companies that own the same set of pipes.
And it's never going to be an incentive to put millions and millions of dollars into building a second set of pipes if you're going to have to split ownership of the region it with another with another company.
This also responds to tim's quality argument because it means that companies won't need to offer higher quality.
So sure, flint michigan might be really bad.
We super agree.
It's a problem that the federal government hasn't done anything about them.
But we think that private corporations are more likely to generate thousands of flint michigans simply because that they want to make money, not make sure that people have water.
It's just going to be a worse iteration of the government.
Moreover, we think the government has a political incentive to make sure that citizens are actually provided for.
Like recognize that insofar as political unrest is bad for politicians there's a reason that we don't have thousands more flint michigan's.
Because the government can only handle the political backlash from one.
Proud to oppose.