Don't increase wealth redistribution.
We think that the government makes plenty of money in the status quo.
We should focus more on reallocating existing government funds to meet the basic needs that tim talks about rather than doing things like taxing at such higher rates which we think is going to have all of the adverse effects we're going to talk about later.
Like at the point that we're putting absurd portions of our budget into things like the military, at the point that we're funding random side projects in individual states that haven't been like politically approved but have rather gotten like snuck in by congress people, at the point that we're doing all of this random stuff with money, at the point we're increasing the paychecks of people who work for congress, we think that we should be instead making sure that money actually gets put to good use without increasing taxes elsewhere.
Three main arguments, first on backlash.
Recognize that people get really angry about raising taxes every time it occurs.
This leads to to main impacts: first violence and second political issues.
Let's talk about violence first.
These kinds of policies don't just tick off the rich who benefit off of the lack of wealth distribution most.
Capitalist propaganda has been incredibly effective.
You have a lot of people who are of lower class that feel strongly about the principles of small government, low taxes and the right to property and your own money.
This is because for over a a century they've been fed bullshit about how they could potentially be part of that elite, and how they are principles we have to stand by as like a democracy or as america or any number of other words buzzwords that might be inserted here.
It's really just a strategy for the rich to not have to lose any money to good works, but the problem is that these are the very people that tend to get violent and aggressive in response to these kinds of policies.
You'll have more potential against individuals who are poor, you're going to have more angry political riots that often get violent, these are things that we just prefer to avoid as long as there are unnecessary.
We also just think that you end up with longer term more extremist politicians and policies.
People will will rally to take their anger to the poll boxes and they're going to elect those with even more extreme conservative views in order to avoid these policies in the future.
Who will see this type of policies as personal attacks on the democracies and principles, which means they're going to do their best to protect the democracy they see is being threatened.
This crystallizes in policies like anti-homeless infrastructure, the defunding of public education, and the defunding of homeless shelters and food kitchens.
Things that target the poor populations, in order to like support them, like those kind of social welfare nets, are likely to get cut because in order for richer people to take out their anger on them and feel it revenge is happening.
Our second argument is that it's principally unjust.
We think it's important that to note that people to work hard for the money they earn.
Sure, some taxation is justified and we think that we're fine with things like really high inheritance taxes that tax the money that individuals didn't work to earn.
But at some point taxation does become theft.
Tim wasn't super specific but we can assume the the taxation he wants would be that high that it would qualify to this degree.
Our third argument is about decreasing productivity.
If you're tax rate is going to be super high, there isn't incentive to end up at that economic class in the first place.
Because it requires things like taking on a really hard hours, it often requires compromising on your family or other things that you might enjoy.
And if you're going to do that just to have the majority of that money taken away by the government we can people just choose not to do that in the first place.
But this is really bad because recognize that these are the people who tend to create jobs and economic productivity in the first place.
So sure, there's no reason they should be making so much money.
Like we agree.
It's absurd that you have billionaires.
But that's the reward that they've gotten used to for doing things that are good for the economy.
Overly good example of this would be individuals like elon musk.
Like sure we can hate him for his wealth but at the end of the day he does supply thousands to millions of jobs, he does supply a lot of really important technology, and we probably don't want to world in which young elon musk mosk decided to never try harder because there was no point, because the money wouldn't be any different.
Proud to oppose.