Don't increase wealth redistribution.
Recognize that the government makes plenty of money in the status quo.
We should focus more on reallocating existing government funds to meet the basic needs of people.
We agree with james that eliminating poverty is good, it's just a question of whether this is the way to do it.
Three main arguments, first on backlash.
People get really angry about raising taxes literally every single time it occurs and this impacts itself out in a few ways: first in violence.
These kinds of policies don't just tick off the rich who benefit off of a lack of wealth distribution.
Capitalism's propaganda has been incredibly effective and you have a lot of people who are of lower class that feel strongly about the principles of small government, low taxes and the right to property and your own money.
This is because for over a century they're being fed all of this bullshit about how they could potentially be part of that elite and how these are principles we have to stand by.
Really it's just a strategy for the rich to not have to lose any more money to do good works.
The problem is that these are the very people that tend to get violent and aggressive in response to these kinds of policies.
You'll have more potential for violence against people who are poorer.
James said a lot about how inequality is the first place in the first place is going to create violence, but we think that this inequality can be resolved without aggressive policies of redistribution so that you don't have violence on the part of those who are poorer and you don't get the response violence that he is going to create when you start redistributing wealth in a way that a lot of people would be unhappy about.
Adding more violence through such an intense policy won't help the initial violence.
The second thing that people do when they have when they have policies that they personally disagree with though is that in the long term they elect more extremist politician and policies.
People will rally to take their anger at the poll boxes and they will elect those with even more extreme conservative views in order to avoid these policies in the future.
See, these are the type of policies that people see as personal attacks on their democracy and principles and it means they're going to do their best to protect the democracy they see being threatened.
This crystallizes in policies like anti-homeless infrastructure, the defunding of public education, the defunding of homeless shelters and food kitchens, all these kinds of things that we think do a lot of good in the status quo but stop existing into the same extent when you start wealth redistributing, because people in response to something that they see as an attack on their economic well being will do the same to the individuals who they think are creating that attack.
Our second argument about is that this is principally unjust.
People do work hard for the money that they earn.
And sure, some taxation is justified for the reasons that were listed, but too much taxation just becomes theft.
James wasn't super specific, but we think that at the end of the day it doesn't matter whether or not someone like received a lot of wealth because he like exploited people who are poorer because he's going to be taxed to some extent either way.
It's more a matter of do we think that this person has literally input so little work that they're going to be deserving to be taxed so so high.
Our third argument is about decreasing productivity.
If you're tax is going to be super high, there isn't an incentive to end up in that economic class in the first place.
These these are the people that create jobs though, so we think it's actually really important they put themselves into those classes.
So sure, like there's no reason they should be making so much money but that's the reward they've gotten used to for doing things that are good for the economy.
A really good example of this would be like bezos or ilan mosque, where even though they're like really really really rich they're also producing thousands of jobs, and those are really important to the economy writ large so we think it would be good to keep his people placated.
But also like imagine if those people had never gotten to that position in the first place because he didn't think it was worth all of the late nights that they're staying up, all of the management, all of like the extra work they're putting on because they would have gotten taxed to such an extent that they wouldn't be seeing that extra money anyway.
Proud to oppose.