We should abandon the paris agreement.
Through this debate we need to keep in mind that we're talking about the government acting and so the government role and obligations will always be the forefront in this debate.
That means before evaluating any scientific fact claims from side gov, you have to evaluate what the government's job is because we're talking about the government as an actor.
If the case was simply, is the paris agreement good or bad, then it wouldn't matter what I tell you about the government functioning or the government role because you'd only be evaluating the objective positives of the policy itself but insofar as we're talking about the government choosing to use funds, choosing to enforce, choosing to basically take all of these actions that are for the people in theory, we have to take into account what the job of the government is initially.
Two main arguments: first, on fulfilling the political will.
It's been made very clear by the american public they don't want to stay in the paris agreement and this is signaled from by everything from the election of trump to various polls and other kind of assessments of public will.
We have to respect the desires of the populace as a democracy insofar as first, this is the entire definition of what a democracy is but moreover, these decisions must be maintained even if they are bad ones because democratic governments are created to be iterations of the public's desire regardless of whether that desire is like a positive or negative action in and of itself.
This is why we do things like allow individuals to pass poor tax policy that could be really adverse in the future or any number of other reforms because even if there are potential harms in the future, we recognize that we act on the political will today either way.
Government probably talked a lot about how important it is to stop climate change and we'll show you later why even if this is true, staying a part of the paris agreement doesn't actually acquire that change but also the government objective isn't based in objective priorities, it's based in what people want.
So we think that even if it is true that stopping climate change is objectively good and needs to happen, you can't force people to take those good actions against their will just as you can't force me to exercise even though it's good for myself.
You have to make sure that these are desires of the collective and something that should be put into power only if it is desired by the majority.
Our second argument is that it is pointless to fight climate change preventatively.
Things like the paris agreement are aimed at preventative measures against climate change like decreasing emissions and making greener technologies.
The problem is that we've already passed the point of prevention.
At this point we might be able to mitigate the impacts to some extent but it would hardly change the majority of the impacts if we just continue trying to prevent climate change in the first place.
Climate change has already happened.
This is especially true because in order to have a large preventative impact, you have to have massive collective action.
So even with the united states joining the paris agreement, there are still many many countries that aren't involved that won't be contributing and this means that even with the US joining, it's a lost cause.
Given that the paris agreements are a lost cause, there isn't any point in the US sacrificing on its behalf.
There are real impacts to joining those kinds of agreements things like the costs of goods and services will increase, the quality of life decreases because you have to save energy, and moreover, the brunt of these costs are almost always borne by the working class and those who are poorer because they can't afford to adjust to the changes and to the changes in the quality of life and standard of living.
Insofar as this is all true, proud to oppose.