Don't fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
We think that the most important thing in these kinds of rounds is always going to be what is the most achievable, feasible thing because there are a lot of proposals that are really nice in the ethereal.
Like all of us want a world where peace prevails and sunshine and daisies grow everywhere.
The problem is that there are real actors involved who oftentimes have competing incentives that make it so difficult to achieve that peace.
So just saying nuclear weapons are bad is not enough to win this kind of debate which is essentially what tim does, right?
He just talks to you about the philosophical justification for why nuclear weapons are gross.
We agree nuclear weapons are gross.
Maybe we'd be in a better world if they didn't exist in the first place but at the point that they exist now, we have to decide what kind of fights are worth fighting and which ones were most likely to have a positive outcome from.
We just don't think it's reasonable to say that we're going to succeed in fighting for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
What we do think would be more pragmatic would be saying we're going to fight for better regulations on nuclear weapons.
We're going to fight for countries that don't have them yet to not get them.
We're going to ask countries to maybe put stipulations on when they might be used, things like that.
Like maybe we want to sign a cease fire, all of that.
Like these things are just infinitely more likely to occur and infinitely a better use of our political will and other kinds of resources.
Two main arguments: first, on maintaining political will.
Fighting for complete abolition is a process that promises to never end.
There are so many countries and you'd have to get all of them to agree.
Very it is very likely that by the time you got one to agree the ones that were already in it would drop out simply because of the fact that these kinds of political tensions and political environments within a country tend to shift from time to time.
Moreover, countries won't agree to abolish their nukes without guarantees that other countries will do the same because first, they don't want to to not protect themselves in such a way really.
It's an active security threat if you are without this protection but other countries aren't.
But second, because they'd be really afraid of losing the political support of their citizens who would see these kinds of actions as detrimental to national security.
So it's really unlikely this would ever occur.
We also just think we'll also never be able to control for countries that lie or hide their facilities.
Like it's really likely that we end up with things that were similar to when we thought that iran was not having nukes where they just kind of hid their facilities and tried to like make sure that no one found out about it, right?
Like that's something we'll never be able to prevent and that risk alone is enough of a reason not to go through with this because you might end up with a world in which a bunch of WLDs are honest and abolish their nukes and you'll have a couple of countries that didn't and now you've just had a complete disbalance of power.
If our second argument is about maintaining mutually assured destruction.
First, to address this pointless weapons argument.
We're really unclear on what exactly tim meant here, right?
Like weapons are just meant to harm whether it's offense or defense but moreover, nukes are really effective at both, right?
Like if you fire a defensive nuke presumably it's unlikely that country is going to attack you again or maybe like there will be more war but that's true for anything else, right?
Like if you fire a defensive weapon at a country at any point in time they might fight back against you.
But also recognize that countries are often the aggressors for any number of reason and at the point that that's true, we think that like nukes are equally definitionally a weapon as anything else.
Like of course if you're launching tons of nukes back and forth that's bad for everyone but we don't think that's happening.
Moreover, we think that nukes deter all warfare by making people scared of escalation.
So this argument that nukes don't prevent anything else besides other nukes is silly.
We also just think that mutually assured destruction is a good thing because it prevents conflict escalation at levels much lower than nukes as I already mentioned.
In the status quo there are a lot of ways to cause a lot of damage to people without ever touching nukes but a lot of countries don't even touch those either because they're afraid of inciting nuclear weapons.
So the existence of nukes promotes negotiation and collaboration.
Proud to oppose.