Don't phase out lightweight plastic bags.
The idea of forcing people to use reusable bags is nice, but we just don't think this is what happens.
The people who will switch to reusable bags will do so on either side of the house, because they are are people who tend to care about the environment, who care about their impact on the environment, and tend to exist in liberal spheres where this kind of caring is encouraged.
But I think that the actual thing that occurs is that plenty of people will end up with equally, if not more, harmful alternatives.
We're fine with a world in which we switch to biodegradable plastic bags instead, we are just against plastic bags.
Keep in mind, also, that banning plastic bags just means raising the amount of paper bags, in addition to reusable bags, which will become important later in the debate.
Two main arguments: first, on convenience.
The reason we started using plastic bags at all is because they're incredibly convenient to use and easy to provide for free.
This alows transportation for your groceries to be accessible regardless of how much money you have or whether you were in a rush before going to the store and forgot to bring your own bag.
They're also cheaper for stores to provide than paper or reusable bag, being four cents per paper bag and one cent per plastic bag.
As long as we can show you that this isn't the tipping point in terms of the environment, we think that convenience actually matters quite a bit, right?
Because when we live in a society that is as human centered as we are, we value that individual people have comfort and ease of access to the daily things that they need in their lives.
So, we think that you can clean up the ocean to save the turtles that sam is so worried about, independently of plastic bags, and you can also just like continue the education that we have right now about why people shouldn't be throwing their plastic bags in the ocean, in the first place, and we can encourage recycling and make recycling more accessible for these bags.
We think that insofar as there's a lot of trash in the ocean, we don't think that plastic bags are the meaningful tipping point, like animals are just gonna choke on something else, so we just don't think that this is that big of a deal.
But, moreover, our second independent point are going to be about why the alternatives aren't better and why, in particular, alternatives can actually be worse for the environment.
Scientifically, plastic has a smaller carbon footprint than the alternatives like paper or cotton bags.
They use less water and produce less greenhouse gases during the production process, and paper takes up more space in landfills than plastic bag and takes up almost just as much time to disintegrate which means, on net, if we're increasing the amount of paper bags we're using, at the cost of plastic bags, you're taking up more space in landfills than you did before.
Moreover, people are just going to replace the lightweight plastic bags with worse alternatives.
Sure, some people might be really good about buying a few reusable cloth bags, but the vast majority of people are more likely to just use other plastic bags that get used in the house.
It was reported in ireland, when there was a plastic bag tax like the one that sam is proposing, there was a massive increase in plastic bin liner bags and garbage bag sales.
It showed that people were just buying more plastic bags for home and then using those, instead of turning to more sustainable bag practices.
The further problem is that the replacement plastic bags tend to be made out of thicker plastic and pose a stronger threat to the environment, IE, those turtles that sam is so worried about.
Plastic bags are such a small percentage of overall pollution and waste, only zero point four percent of municipal waste, that it would also just be smarter to allocate the same effort towards more pressing issues, like reducing air pollution or increasing recycling of plastics.
You don't have nearly the harms that sam claims in terms of the magnitude of impact.
Moreover, the alternatives tend to have an almost equal environmental impact.
Maybe paper won't mess up the sea turtles as much, but paper bags will facilitate the growth of different molds that will make marine habitats inhabitable.
Proud to oppose.