We shouldn't prohibit subprime lending.
I think the problem here is that government paints this entire situation with a very wide brush.
They kind of assume that subprime lending is just something that we can blanket prohibit and that will always be positive because subprime lending is always bad but that doesn't actually recognize any of the nuance of what subprime lending looks like, the different facets that it can often take into account and the fact that oftentimes subprime lending isn't just about making sure that people who can't pay things back don't get lines of credit, rather it often includes a lot of individuals who can and do pay things back it's just they're considered at risk.
So a lot of the time subprime lending is considered just extending lines of credit to individuals who have less than a six hundred on their fico score and this doesn't consider those individuals contexts at all.
So it doesn't consider what their current income is, whether there was some situation in the past that dropped their credit score for some reason, whether they have recently gotten a better job or have risen from a particular situation or if there was a precipitating event that ruined their credit score but shouldn't actually be considered in terms of whether they deserve to have access to lines of credit in the long term.
I think that there are plenty of reasons that individual companies have reasons not to extend subprime lines of credit if they think that those people truly do not have the ability to pay those situations back like if they really think that they are risky and I think a lot of that has to do with the fact that it is less likely that the government will bail them out this time.
Things like the fact that there are much fewer individuals who are willing to buy those mortgages and try who are willing to buy that debt and try to get paid out on that.
Like they're much more likely to get a lot of money that they lose out on and I think that insofar as that is true, we need to be able to trust companies to do what is best for the economy and for themselves given that they need to continue to operate in that economy.
So if they ruin it now that's something that they will also ruin for themselves.
Two main arguments: first, on the rights of companies and I've talked about this a little bit but at the end of the day, we think that companies should be able to lend out in the way that they please.
Like at the end of the day, companies are autonomous actors that have rights underneath capitalist systems and one of those rights should be to choose who your consumer is and whether you want to extend to a broader base.
We already said that there are plenty of incentives for companies not to give out subprime mortgages because they can rebound on them and they know that it can create economic disasters and we think that it is unlikely that subprime lending in the status quo will take the form of mortgages such as what caused the housing crisis, rather we think this is a debate more often about situations in which this is more commonly used such as with credit card companies and car loans things that are much less likely to cause a crisis but also have implications primarily for the companies that issue them not necessarily for just like everyone or the economy.
We think that it should be within the company's right to make the calculus of whether it is worth it themselves and evaluate individuals separately from just like a broad general law.
Our second argument is about allowing individuals to access capital.
The definition for subprime lending disadvantages individuals who might be in the process of increasing their social class or have had hard times in the past but are on their way up.
Being able to access lines of credit allows these people to continue their upward mobility by but being able to access loans for higher education, a car that can take them to work, any number of things that is actually very central to them being able to get over the economic hump in the first place.
Our society is pretty much built on people buying things that they can't afford in order to live.
Without being able to access lines of credit people are often forced back into the cycles of poverty that they're trying to escape.
We also just think that it grows the economy when people spend more the economy expands and what this debate is really about is whether we think that we can have a future in which subprime lending occurs in an intelligent rather than unintelligent manner.
Proud to oppose.