The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish congressional earmarks.
Two main areas of clash: first, on why it is undemocratic.
First, recognize that what congressional earmarks do is make it so that the public can never know what exactly a bill accomplishes or what the true meaning of that bill is.
They think that they're voting on or supporting one thing but in reality, there are all these little marks and little places in which they're supporting something completely different, because congressional earmarks aren't required to be released to the public or announced to the public.
Rather they're heavily hidden within the text of a bill and make it so that only someone doing a close reading would be able to hold them accountable for it.
Very few people do this, and very few people care enough to pay attention when it's done.
This is actually really pernicious because it creates a world in which we don't actually know what's going on with our money or what's going on with our politicians.
People need to know what they're voting on given that it impacts their lives.
It needs to be as transparent as possible.
Moreover, congresspeople extort earmarks for bills to pass in the first place, which is incredibly undemocratic.
They can literally be like, " no, we will not pass this bill at all unless you include our earmark. "
And if that bill is something important, then people oftentimes have to compromise, even unwillingly, and give away money when they probably just because they're so desperate to get this kind of policy passed.
It provides individual congresspeople with disproportionate power in a political system that is supposed to rely most of all on the people, and it turns people's lives and public policy into a political game, which should not be happening.
It also allows congresspeople to hide things from the common-day voter.
It reduces the power of individuals to influence policy, in the first place, because even if the public is very invested in a specific bill, they can't do anything to stop those earmarks.
And because they're oftentimes completely unread, it's a perfect place for congresspeople to put something that they don't want found out later, and we think that in a democracy, people should have as much power as possible.
Our second area of clash is that these kinds of earmarks are fiscally irresponsible.
They're used to please constituents of certain congresspeople, but you're not actually allocating that money efficiently.
So maybe delaware needed that bridge, but presumably there's a reason that it didn't make it into the original budget.
Probably an there's an area where that money could be better used.
Moreover, just getting rid of earmarks in the budget would leave over sixteen million dollars that currently go unallocated and specifically get used for earmarks that could presumably join the budget and be allocated for other projects.
So, like, maybe instead of allocating these this money for earmarks and having the like congressman from texas institute another different like highway system or something, we could actually do something, like rank the priority of different states' issues and fix the michigan flint water crisis.
I think that the only the only world in which you actually get more efficient allocations is one in which you have all the money and all the expectations that you could possibly be working with, and you are capable of ranking in terms of priority need which states and which issues deserve your attention first.
It's incredibly unfair that some congresspeople get disproportionate allocations to their their regions just because they happen to be important in terms of like political party, they happen to be the swing vote.
It's incredibly unfair, first, because those individuals are not any more deserving of this extra highway system than any other group of people in within the united states, but also because it means that powerful congresspeople and the people who live in the regions get an automatic an automatic advantage above those that have newer, not incumbent congresspeople or congresspeople that have less lobby years, things like that.
For these reasons, proud to propose.