The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish intellectual property rights.
Two areas of clash, the first on why there doesn't actually exist a rights basis for these conceptions.
First, we tell you that you can't own an idea.
Ideas are products of your circumstances, your schooling, your genetics, and your environment.
And insofar as anyone put into those same contexts would be liable to come up with them, we don't think that you can like fully ascribe these ideas as ownership to someone based on such arbitrary factors.
Like given that maybe I'm just economically not in a situation where I could have ended up at an elite university, or like maybe that semester I didn't get to sign up for that class, all of these things influence whether or not my mind comes to a certain idea.
We don't think that you should like be able to own that thing.
We also think that most patented stuff are just didn't are more discoveries than actually new material or information.
We think that as such, this should be the collective knowledge of all individuals.
Like people can still make money off of their creations.
They can still build something and then sell it mass-produced.
It's just not we just tell you that they can't keep long-term ownership over something that we don't think they ever had a right to keep in the first place.
We also just think that these kinds of rights get weighed against things like the right to life.
Like if the medication that you need in order to continue living is something that you can't get because it got patented and is now incredibly expensive, we think that it's more important these individuals get the help they need than that someone gets to claim an arbitrary right over this thing, and thus like keep making money.
Like those are just not as important as each other.
Our second area of clash is why IP rights put a damper on innovation.
First, we tell you that it discourages collaboration.
If you want the patent first, you don't work with others for fear of them stealing it, or for fear of someone else coming up with something better or using your research in bad ways.
As such, we think that a lot of the time people don't actually work with each other, when working with each other would make things a lot more efficient, and resources would be used better, and you'd actually get a lot more minds working on a problem, rather than one person getting stuck and being really slow.
We think this allows a subpar system with regards to collaboration that we'd prefer didn't exist.
But we also tell you that it allows subpar creation due to lack of competition.
Like part of what forces people to be better is the awareness that others can one up you or that your thing won't sell, and removing this fear causes apathy, because people don't actually have an incentive to be better if the general populace doesn't have another choice but to buy their item.
So, when people patent something, it makes it impossible for someone else to mess with that thing or to like build a similar product for a while after that patent is made.
What this means is that there's this two, three, four, five-year period in which people can just sit back on their haunches and not actually work on anything new or make sure that their product is even good, because they've already secured the patent so they don't have to worry about that extra competition.
And so we think the way in which you make better products and make better goods is by making people essentially afraid of losing their right to that item and stuff like that.
We also think that creating monopolies out of patented basics is really bad.
Think a lot of the time what you see is a very large corporation patenting like a certain type of screen or a certain type of keyboard, like very fundamental proportions of something that are necessary for other things to be built of that caliber.
And what happens is that a lot of the time after they've patented it, the technology that depends on that patented component can't actually go through and cannot be made.
So it stifles innovation in that people can't even begin to think of new innovative ideas while there's a fundamental portion that is patented.
I also just briefly want to touch on unused patents.
Like lots of companies will just patent mine as much as possible so that other companies can't own that thing and can't use it.
They sit on these patents, and so we actually think a lot of lifesaving technology never gets used, because you have companies that already patent it but never use it.
You also end up with patent trolls that make money and extort people into like by using like very fundamental patents.
For these reasons, proud to propose.