I think for this round we need first clarify what exactly intellectual property looks like, because will seems to think that it is just this monolithic label that means that no one else can ever use your technology and the most generalized form of tech can be patented and patent trolls can take advantage.
However this is not the way that it actually works.
We've had lots of relevant court cases at this point that have vastly limited the power of patent trolls as well as large corporations to block startups using generalized patents.
We see this through the fact that like you cannot patent a type of keyboard or a type of glass because these are necessarily used by all different corporations.
More than this, patents expire after seven years to allow generic products to flood the market.
So any arguments that say that people have the same ideas or other people can now not utilize this fall through both because if it is an actual general idea it will not be patented in the first place but also because after seven years this will be free to the market either way.
With this, two main areas of clash.
The first on why intellectual property is necessary for innovation.
In order to have innovation in a more specific field you first have to come up with it in the first place.
Will is really worried that once you can patent a general concept, no one can refine it.
But if you never get to work that concept in the first place you're never going to be able to get more specific either.
So what we're so a lot of capital does go into putting goes into putting a concept into motion.
You have to leave your other jobs, you have to hire collaborators, you have to lease a workspace.
After if you're going to put all of that effort in and put yourself at so much risk, you also have to have some sort of guarantee or probable guarantee that this is going to be profitable for you.
What will does is effectively makes it impossible for someone to make this risk worth it because the second that they start something in the market someone else can pull it up, do it better, make more money, and essentially kick them out.
This means that no one is ever actually going to go into this venture in the first place because why would I leave my cushy job to work on a start-up if I don't know if it's ever going to succeed in the first place.
People need to know that the trade-off is worth it if they're ever going to take the risk in the first place.
A really good example of this is how academic academic medical discoveries occur using natural molecules.
So recent studies stating that like specific amino acids can decrease splice-site mutations but these never get put into play because if it is a very generalized non-patentable molecule, no one wants to risk creating that technology because they don't know if it's going to work out.
We also think that patents and the promise of intellectual property motivates youth to enter these kinds of tech fields in the first place because there's the promise of discovering something new and patenting it and making it your own.
So on their side of the house, you just have more difficulty with recruitment as well.
Our second area of clash is basically a clarification on what intellectual property encompasses, because it's not just patenting specific technology or specific findings it also includes trade marks and copyrights which means that the creation of brands on will's side of the house can never meaningfully occur because anyone would be able to market a product under the same name or brand that you have.
This means for example that coke would never exist in its current format because the second coke started being successful other people could start labeling their off-brand sodas at coke as coke, sell more of theirs while simultaneously devaluing the devaluing the coke brand.
This makes it incredibly difficult for brands to actually build brand recognition or build any kind of trust between the consumer and their brand.
This is bad both for the corporations but also for the consumers because they can now never trust whether a brand is actually what it says that it is or not.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.