The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit wind power.
What we mean by this is that we prefer a world in which we use more wind power than we currently do.
I'd say that it would be preferable to gas or oil, so a world in which it is used more than those sources is one that we are advocating for.
Two main areas of clash, the first on long term environmental solvency.
Global warming is environmentally destructive.
Rising sea levels destroy coastline towns and kill thousands, changing weather pattern patterns kill livestock and change the spread of disease so that there's more starvation first because your crops and your livestock are dying due to veter weather patterns that are unpredictable, but second there is also more death from diseases that people in those regions never experienced before.
If I'm not used to living in a world with where west nile virus is a real threat, I'm not going to be prepared when the weather changes allows those mosquitoes to start living where I live.
So we're basically creating a world in which like in which people can never defend themselves from diseases or from starvation because you never know when it's about to hit.
We tell you that this is only going to get worse if we don't switch to cleaner energy sources because currently, when we are still propagating the use of gas and oil, we are only adding more and more emissions.
Even things like changing the technology that we use to be more efficient doesn't change the net amount of emissions and doesn't give us a long term better world because it's never going to be perfectly clean.
Recognize that wind power is renewable and ever present and exactly the kind of thing that will allow us to prevent to prevent global warming from proceeding further because we are able to put up large large stations that can power entire towns at once practically eliminating the need for gas and oil, at least in housing situations, so at least we'll only be using it for cars.
Our secondary of clash has to do with long term economic solvency.
Recognize that on a global scale we are running out of gas and oil.
Sure there are certain pockets that are oil rich but first, this leads to individual nations having dependency on those that happen to arbitrarily be placed on top of those pockets, but second, it only means that we have like those particular nations have a longer amount of time before it runs out.
Either way the end result is running out and the sooner we start to counteract it the better because the closer we get to running out, the higher the price gets.
What this does is leaves entire countries either completely dependent often on middle eastern countries that happen to be oil rich.
This is problematic because being economically tied to an unpredictable and irrational actor that can boost the price as they see fit leads to a unpredictable and thus risky economy which investors are afraid to invest in and in which other prices tend to go up but second, it leaves people without access to these kinds of goods which is very damaging economically insofar as in order to be able to be a productive person and spend money elsewhere in the market, I have to first have access in a at a reasonable price to basic necessities such as heating for my home or being able to drive around in my car.
So at the point that it is economically bad for these countries, we think that wind power is a much safer economic choice.
First it is a lot cheaper given that it only requires initial installation and then further and then like future maintenance afterwards rather than repeated incredibly risky rigs that oftentimes spill some of the oil that you are gathering and oftentimes having to buy oil from foreign powers that can pull up the price on you.
We also think that it provides a new economic stimulus by allowing space for new technology and new development and research.
Oil and gas are old.
Sure fracking sometimes develops a little bit further in terms of technology, but all in all what we've discovered about oil is all that we can get.
However with things like wind power there is so much room for the technology to grow and so much research yet to be done that we think it is positive for the investment to be made now and for it to be exploited further currently.
For these reasons proud to propose.