The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize doping in sports.
Just to make this a clear debate, we're going to model this in a professional level.
We're not talking about high schoolers taking steroids but rather about athletes who are competing on the college and olympic, etcetera, beyond that level.
So, three main areas of clash, the first on why this is non-unique from other current methods by which athletes maintain their bodies and make themselves more effective at their sport.
The major concern that people bring up when they talk about why we shouldn't legalize doping is that because it's not natural, because this cannot be met by means of the person's body alone, we ought not allow it to happen because it interferes with some imagined integrity of the sport.
The problem with this is that athletes already manipulate their bodies in massively unnatural, but legal, ways to win their activities.
They do things like putting themselves through strenuous diets and massive amounts of nutritional supplements.
They oxygen-deprive themselves while sleeping or exercising.
Not only are these things unnatural, but they are also often more dangerous than taking steroid-like substances or other doping substances.
More than this though, we think that at the point that they can be more dangerous, but also sports is inherently dangerous to the body, see when these athletes are done by the age as young as twenty-five to thirty, they cannot move, often suffer from massive amounts of arthritis and have to get treatments for things like their joint disorders, we think what this means is that you're not actually protecting athletes when you aren't allowing them to dope.
You're just making them find more extreme but still legal ways in which they might.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think this levels the playing field.
We think the problem with anti-doping legislation is that it only destroys some careers.
It only finds a few people who are actually doping.
The problem with this is that massive amounts of athletes do dope but get under the radar.
And as long as there is a massive reward and of relatively little risk, and they can play the weighing game in their mind and decide that the outcome will be worth it if they don't get caught, they will continue to dope.
We think that you shouldn't enforce something that is effectively unenforceable equally.
But more than this, we think that when you make something legal, you make regulation easier, and you will actually be able to weed out the harmful stuff.
When you tell athletes what you need to succeed is going to be legal, we're just making sure that you don't cause yourself a heart attack, the weighing game becomes simpler.
It's no longer worth it to take that very dangerous drug, because there are other drugs that are available for cheaper and more legal means.
We think this is incredibly important in allowing athletes to make smarter choices for themselves as well and regulating actually harmful drugs.
Third, though, we want to spend a little bit of time talking about the spirit of the activity and what professional athleticism actually are.
We think a viable comparison is one in which we imagine a athlete as a race car driver and the body as their machine.
In the same one the same way that in formula one, they're constantly finding new ways to make themselves, their machines, better and stronger and updating with new technology, and this isn't considered illegal because you're just making your machine better, we think athletics are the same way.
At the point that the goal is to become the best human body, become the best at your your given sport, we don't think the line gets to be drawn at things that are deemed unnatural because of their chemical nature.
We think that in all reality, it's actually better in sports when you get to dope, because you're actually getting to access the the like highest of human possibility, and you're seeing what is truly surreal.
We don't think that people watch sports in order to see men like themselves or women like themselves compete.
They watch sports because they want to see powerful people doing what what they themselves could never do.
We think at the point that this happens anyway in much more dangerous ways now and they cannot solve it, just legalize doping.
For these reasons, proud to propose.