Doping in sports ought not be legalized.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the nature of sport.
We think that sports and athletic events are about maximizing human potential not chemical potential.
Which means they are specifically popular because individuals like to see the human body pushed to its limits and made to do whatever is feasible for it.
When chemicals remove these boundaries the event becomes less interesting to watch.
Not only because it then takes a much longer amount of time and people lose interest, but also because a lot of the value and a lot of the enjoyment of watching athletic events comes from imagining that if you work hard enough you would be able to do that as well.
People do not like to watch unreasonable standards battle it out on screen.
If we wanted to watch machinery fight it out then these individuals would watch nascar or any kind of racing event in which it is actually a competition of who gets the better like piece of equipment etcetera.
But the reason that we enjoy athletics is because it's not about who has more money and can afford to drug themselves better but rather it is about who wants to put more effort into training and who's the stronger individual.
We think that you decrease the value of sports both with regards to entertainment and with regards to the integrity of the activity when you make it a battle of who can afford the strongest drug or is willing to do the worst thing for their body.
More than this though, we think that what you are doing on their side of the house is making the athletic event not a competition of individual skill but a competition of who's trainer can get a hold of the best chemical.
This is problematic because it places some people ahead of others simply based on how what they can afford and what their country has legalized.
Recognize that the standards for what america has legal are often much higher than necessarily what russia has legalized because they are willing to fast track certain chemicals specifically because it can be helpful to athletes.
So we think at the point that it literally makes it a competition not of individuals but of chemicals you can't even call it an athletic event anymore.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why it's bad for athletes.
Will is so worried about inequity but we think that it's worse when some can afford but you can't.
Now that it's legal the individual can't even take the moral high ground or get them in trouble and you're going to have on net more people using it.
Which means that it's going to be much more distinct difference between those who are richer and have more like more ability to get a hold of this versus those who are poorer but might still be willing to work very hard.
We think it especially disadvantages athletes when they're being picked on the professional level because physically you cannot compete with the drugs that other people are taking and if you don't have the economic means to do so this is a fundamental barrier that doesn't allow you to enter the field in the first place.
Will also seems incredibly worried about consent.
He says that because doctors can explain the risks to you it means that you can fully consent into the long term harms.
The problem with this is that with regards to competitive activity, the competition over often overpowers rationality.
This is why we see college students, even if they are not prescribed ADHD meds, take these kinds of medications or other stimulants even though they understand that in the long term it is bad for them, even though they understand that it is illegal, they still do so because the competition and their desire to do well overpowers the rationality and the understanding that this is bad.
This means that you cannot internalize long term because not only do you have internal pressure to do well but things like your coach or your facility your like your career depends on this.
It's a lot of pressure that requires you to say yes.
We also think that once it becomes legalized, the pressure increases a lot more because there are no longer legal risks and you can't put your coach in trouble for it.
We also think that it's difficult to internalize the long term because when you are healthy in the moment it is very difficult to imagine being ill later.
So a lot of the times like athletes can't even understand what will happen.
Also a lot of these risks are unknown especially if it becomes legal then you're going to have technology to coming out so quickly that you don't actually get it tested properly or for the long term until years later.
For these reasons proud to oppose.