The motion for today's debate is that atheism is the only way.
Two main areas of argumentation, the first on the existence of god and why there is no reason to think that they exist.
First into this is that there is no evidence for the existence of god.
This is true because we are able to determine metaphysical truths about our universe using empirical evidence.
Therefore, the scientific method is the only valid way to prove assertions.
This means formulating theses, developing testable predictions, gathering data to confirm or deny that theses, and then repeating the process a statistically valid number of times.
By using the scientific method, we can acquire or can acknowledge that is true or at least the most likely answer.
Unfortunately, there simply exists no empirical evidence for the existence of god.
Everything in the universe can be explained through rational, natural processes.
It's easy to imagine in ancient civilization looking at a thunderstorm, in the absence of knowledge about the atmosphere and weather, and believing that they must have done something to anger the sky.
But luckily, we live in an enlightened age.
We can explain almost all important phenomena on earth.
In fact, the empirical knowledge we have actually contradicts most of the anecdotal accounts available from most faiths.
We know the bible, for instance, is wrong about the age of the earth, the creation of the world's many creatures, and numerous other things.
But why is this all important?
We tell you that if there is no evidence in support of a position, you should not believe it.
The existence of a " three o " god is as likely as any other unsupported fact, I.
_e.
, you might as well believe in a flying spaghetti monster or that aliens run the US government.
But more so, how should you decide on what to believe in?
Our third subpoint is that people should follow occam's razor, a problem-solving mechanism which states, " among competing hypotheses, the one with the fewest assertions should be selected. "
Why is occam's razor a good measure?
Essentially, without it, any set of facts can have infinitely many explanations getting infinitely complex like, if there's a god who's to say there aren't eight gods, four of whom work night shifts, one does stuff on thursdays, and all are protrusions of the gem of some alien being.
We see this all the time with conspiracy theorists.
Someone who wants to believe nine-eleven was an inside job avoids ever being proved wrong by using what we call ad hoc hypotheses, I.
_e clearly the government tampered with the footage because it was an inside job, and clearly eyewitnesses were bribed because it was an inside job.
Settling the simplest explanation is the only way to cut off change of argument before they become absurd.
The impact here is obvious.
The impacts the existence of god relies on many more assumptions that competing explanations, which rest on natural phenomena that are empirically proven, therefore, you must default to our natural, not supernatural explanation.
Our second point is about the dangers of irrationality.
We want talk to you about reason and faith.
We think most religious people accept that they cannot prove the existence of god, but rather think faith is supposed to exist independently.
This makes faith definitionally irrational.
Here's why holding irrational beliefs is bad: we would posit that a belief in god, because it rejects reason, is, firstly, a priori bad.
What does this mean?
Namely, turning one's back on reason is intrinsically not good.
Recognize that reason and logic are guiding universal principles.
Logic always works, just like two plus two equals four is always true.
The problem for the other side of the house is that if god's existence is not logical, faith is simply that flies in the is simply something that flies in the face of the basic principle of how humans should interpret and understand ideas.
Secondly, we would say that making an exception in this case enables people to make more exceptions.
What does this mean?
Religion is intrinsically irrational, but also a belief system in which there are generally commandments, figures of authority, and a reward system in the afterlife.
Furthermore, god is the source of all good and their world is law.
This is bad for two reasons.
One, because the system enforces certain norms that may be harmful, for example, women being forced to be subservient to men.
Do to not do these arbitrary things is sinful and punished, which we think strips human of their agency.
Two, because god becomes infinite justifications for doing pretty much anything.
The fact that so much of the violence in our world is a result of religion, from the crusades to nine-eleven, we can see that religion becomes a justification for violence.
It is because of this that when you do not use reason, you allow yourself to become the extreme.