On face, it is true that a lot of people have incredibly visceral reactions to the idea of congressional earmarks.
But the fact of the matter is that if we are going to achieve cooperation, and if we are going to achieve some kind of breakthrough in the gridlock that often plagues congress, you need these earmarks to exist.
If will is worried about transparency, we think that that can still be achieved as long as these earmarks are reported.
But transparency transparency only asks for good reporting, not necessarily for the abolition of the practice in the first place.
Two main areas of clash: the first on why congressional earmarks are incredibly important for bipartisanship.
We are fine with biting some of the harms that will lists, because the alternative is that there is no incentive to a collaborate across the bench.
This creates more gridlock and allows the party in power to even further dominate the minority party because there isn't something that would incentivize them to actually communicate and compromise.
Because when you don't have situations in which these congresspeople feel like they can gain something from interacting with the other, then all of their incentives points to satisfying their main consumer base and voting base, which means satisfying the party and like and being true to party goals, and satisfying the people who elected them, who tend to be members of the party.
So the only world in which you get any kind of incentive to compromise is one in which they feel like they can gain something that will promote them in the eyes of their voting base or in the eyes of the party from the from the people across the bench.
This only occurs when you can say that, " if you sign my democratic bill, then I'll give you something to bring back to your voters that will keep you getting reelected. "
Sure, it sucks that this is the way it works, but unless we're going to have a massive upheaval of the political system, this is the way that it is going to continue to work.
In the end, we think it is just more important that these bills get passed than the principle of not having earmarks.
Because we need things like healthcare bills, privacy rights, net neutrality bills, to keep going through regardless of those who don't want them to go through, because they're important to the functioning of society and important to the standard of living that people like to keep.
Our second area of clash is why these earmarked funds are good ways of developing local economies and state infrastructure.
There are surprisingly few ways for congresspeople to effect local change in their areas except through earmarking these funds because of like limited amounts of funds and oftentimes like larger more established congresspeople are going to grab those funds faster.
This gives them a way to fund smaller and more specific project which is good for those regions because you're going to be creating jobs in those areas, you're going to be providing more efficient like in the cases of road work, more efficient ways for people to travel, safer ways for people to travel, or in the case of any kind of like government infrastructure work, it tends to make those places safer or more well-staffed.
Meaning this is especially important for small states who have less say elsewhere because if you are a swing vote or anything like that, you're actually much more likely to get offered these earmarked funds, where previously you didn't get a voice in the conversation of budgeting because you've been there for a shorter amount of time or you're from a smaller state and people don't care about you as much.
So we actually think this is especially good for smaller states and smaller congressman, because they are much more likely to end up being that swing vote that gets to ask to earmark their funds for their region and build infrastructure and build the local economy.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.