The motion for today's debate is that we should ban partial abortions.
Some modeling, we think that partial abortions are still legal on our side of the house when the mom's life is in danger if they do not have that abortion.
The only time in which you would be banning partial abortions is when everyone's health is completely fine and the fetus is healthy and this is only being done because of a desire on the part of the mother to no longer have a child.
Three main areas of clash.
The first on the moral line.
We think that it is perfectly alright to abort a child that is not yet a child.
During the first through early second trimester the baby is nothing but a clump of cells.
It cannot feel, it is still likely to self abort, etcetera.
But at the point of partial birth, the fetus is human shaped.
It can feel and it can move and it engages in extensive communication with the mother in order to continue existing.
Difference between the complicated organism and the single celled organism is exactly the difference that we're talking about.
The fetus after like after the first and second trimester is a more complex and higher level of life that ought to be protected, insofar as it is no longer just the potentiality of a clump of cells but rather is actually the like the conception of the human being that it will become.
Moreover at this point, the mother has already had a chance to abort.
In fact, they've had months to to to contemplate that decision and clearly she had already decided to keep the child for one reason or another.
So thus it's now too late.
We also think that it's important to note that the mother still has other options at this point.
It is not as though they are completely the child after birth they can still choose to give that child up for adoption, choose not choose to like give them to the other parent if they so wanted, etcetera, etcetera.
The point is that so late in the term you can no longer automatically place the mother's rights above the child's because this child is no longer a lower-level of being.
You have to weigh between higher and lower-order pain.
Sure, the mother might experience some discomfort because she has to carry out this baby to term but this child will literally not be able to live the rest of its life because of this decision and we think that's always going to be more important when you're dealing with an actual life.
Our second area of clash has to do with why this is a poor incentive structure.
We want women to abort as early as possible, if that's what they want because this is the world in which not only do you get less backlash from conservatives but you're also going to have a like safer process both for the mother and the fetus and you're going to like have a cheaper process for the hospital and for the economy.
Understanding this, we shouldn't provide a world in which you can push this decision for as long as possible because of all the reasons I listed above, that it is actively worse personally and for like the hospital if you're going to wait for a very long time.
Our third area of clash has to do with politics.
Currently you already see major ad campaigns on the part of conservatives that paint small baby small fetuses as these helpless things and these liberals are just crushing them and killing them.
We think that when you provide them with actual images of children being dissected you give them the opportunity to further vilianize liberals and abortions by now putting these pictures out there and saying look in the behavior that is actually being engaged in.
This further threatens abortion as a broader institution because if you can convince people that this is what is happening the most often when people are much less likely to support this institution.
Realize that even hardcore liberals often tend to be against such extreme imagery.
It's really easy to be liberal until all of your empathetic strings are being tugged.
When you see images of children being dissected, when you are told that this is the majority of the situation, it becomes a recruitment point and more people will feel will feel bad for these children and less bad for these mothers.
For these reasons, proud to propose.