The motion for today's debate is that we should protect endangered species.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why you ought protect, generally, living beings and why these animals have value in the first place.
Because we acknowledge that animals might not have as many rights as human, but recognize that the same criteria that we assign to humans that tell us that they have rights we can also ascribe to animals.
Many of these reasons include humans suffer and feel pain, they contextualize an image of the past and the future, and they have family units in which they enjoy the presence of some people and form strong relationships with some people.
A lot of these criteria also apply to a majority of animals.
All almost every animal, aside from insects or single celled organisms, experiences suffering and contextualizes their past and their purpose in existence and the majority of animals also have strong relationships with others of their species.
This mean if they meet the same criteria as humans this probably means that they have some sort of rights similar to those in humans.
In the very least we think that this the less the least arguable right is one that might be a right not to be harmed and a right to just exist as they exist.
So we're not placing an obligation on humans to go out of their way to protect animals if like say I if those humans never caused it in the first place or if it is unrelated to their activities.
But we think that in the very least humans ought leave these animals alone and they have a right to that.
The problem is that humans are directly responsible for the deforestation and global warming that destroys and causes endangered species in the first place.
At the point that there is direct culpability for the harms these animals experience we think there also ought be an obligation to protect them after we create the situations in which they start dying off.
We think this is this is also why we see situations in which someone in which if like you cause a certain conflict in another country we expect reparations to be paid, such as like world war one when germany was charged with them, we see this things as justified because if you cause a significant harm you ought have to mend it.
The same applies in situations such as these animals, we cause the situations in which they start suffering so we ought have to protect them afterwards.
But if you don't believe that our secondary of clash has to do with utility to humanity.
Because a lot of the time these animals are part of complicated ecosystems that we don't completely understand and we don't understand the impact of an animal going extinct in those systems.
So a lot of the time what happens is that this animal was either predator or prey.
If it's an important predator, it means that not having that predator in the ecosystem blows up whoever they were hunting and oftentimes causes problems for humans.
So this often happens in rural areas of the united states where we no longer have tigers or hyenas that haunt town that hunt down deer.
And so you end up with massive populations of deer in these areas and no one really knows what to do with them.
They become nuisances, they're dangerous to humans because they end up crashing into your cars, and like and causing unsafe circumstances.
But because we've basically created unlivable situations for their predators we cannot do anything about it.
The other alternative is that these animals disrupt the ecosystem in the other direction.
They were the prey and now the predator has nothing to eat and so in situations where the animal was helpful to you, the predator in particular was helpful to the to humans it no longer exists and thus you end up with to with with like not enough with other pests that are like more of them or you end up not having this other animal as well.
So you end up with a chain of extinction essentially.
What but the other issue with this is that a lot of the time we don't know what these animals have to give us.
Many secrets with regards to medicine or future therapeutic needs have been discovered by examining the genomes of different animals.
When an animal goes extinct you can no longer research what that animal does or how they can benefit humans in the long term and so we think that you ought be protecting them in the first place.
For these reasons proud to propose.