Drew protects endangered species only on the basis that they aren't being endangered.
So on our side of the house we can still protect species that are useful to humanity or culturally relevant so if a group wants to create a protect the bengal tigers group because bengal tigers are a very large part of their culture, we think on our side of the house that is still good and fine.
The question in this round is why we should protect the buffalo if in this world the buffalo is completely useless to humanity?
The answer is that we shouldn't.
The aesthetics that drew argues in his third independent point don't exist.
Animals don't have any value because there isn't any intelligence in that can contextualize the self within them.
So the reason we say humans have innate value is because I can contextualize my future, I can contextualize the life that I will have, and I can contextualize how much it will hurt if I no longer exist but animals can't do that.
They don't understand the world with regards to the future but rather live in the present.
So this aesthetic value doesn't exist.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on the existence of multiple species not being valuable.
We tell you that there is no innate value to keeping an animal alive just because it is the last of a species unless it is useful to humans because if the animal doesn't care about its own existence, as I already established, why should a human?
We also tell you that utility defines the value of something.
Just as a broken chair gets thrown out when it no longer serves its purpose or unwanted kittens get drowned, it's unclear why we need to exert effort in order to protect a species that is dying out even if it doesn't serve a purpose to ourselves and it doesn't actually harm that like and there is no like innate harm to that species leaving.
We think that it's not the case that it is just good to have a lot of like a diversity of multiple species, but rather it is important to have a lot of what can actually be useful to the rest of the world.
And so drew responds to this by saying that sometimes you just don't know if this is going to be useful in the future but this is true of the impact of any action.
So I don't know if the fact that I killed this one butterfly at this moment is going to significantly impact the future because maybe that butterfly was going to pollinate a very important flower and inspire an artist at a very important moment.
Like we cannot live our lives based on what we think might happen in the future because that creates an infinite responsibility to protect everything.
More than this, we tell you that a lot of the time technology can make up for these kinds of problems.
So maybe you disrupted that grass, but now because we have that grass's genetic code stored you can recreate a synthetic version and it can accomplish the same thing.
So we think that at the point that you can make up for this using technology and it usually doesn't have that large of an impact we don't think that the money or extra intensity ought be spent trying to salvage endangered species.
Our second main area of clash has to do with why utility for the people who are living in this moment is more important than with the utility of any future people that might exist and why you have no obligation to them?
Because we think it's the case that you don't actually know what future people will prefer or need and assuming that maybe they might need this creates an infinite amount of obligations because you never actually know whether like future people are going to like require this thing that you are using up currently.
Like it's probably the case that future people are going to need coal, but we're not just gonna start compromising our own utility based on the future because we don't actually know them and we don't know what they're going to need or want.
So at the point that we don't think you can actually fulfill the responsibility you ought be obligated to your own utility first because you actually know what you need and you know what is going to make your life better which is something you can never predict with those that happen in the future.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.