Don't protect the antarctic continent.
Two main arguments: first, on avoiding conflict.
This is an area that a lot of countries are constantly fighting over, and james is wrong about the status quo situation of antarctica.
We already have a semblance of a treaty, so this is really just a debate about whether we should protect it even more, presumably according to the model that james gave.
In the status quo, we've broken in, albeit uneasy, peaceful situation in which the arctic is claimed by certain countries over certain pieces, and it is majority no drill and mostly retained for the use of scientific research.
This is remarkably close to what james is proposing when he says that: look, we're just going to have a massive international space, like section, in which, presumably, research can still occur.
So what you have to ask yourself is: is it worth upending all of the current alliances, treaties, and agreements in order to try and remold into something that is only marginally harsher and marginally better than what we have in the status quo?
We think, generally, the status quo is a good state of affairs, and moving to protect the arctic more is only going to stir up more drama.
Doing what james said and making it into a reservation is just going to open up new discussion about who is funding it, controlling it, maintaining it, and what kind of actions are taking place there, as well as accusations of individuals not carrying their weight or lying about what's happening.
We don't think it's worth restarting unless james can show you that there's something really, really bad about the current system, which he doesn't even start to do because he misunderstands the current system entirely.
James asserts that the value of virgin land is very high, but this is only because of the potential it holds for capital.
There is nothing inherent to untouched land that makes it so good as long as we're able to maintain the animal life that already lives there, which we've seen is possible with even when drilling or even when other exploitation is happening.
The only time we've really seen it be an issue is when we're actually felling the environment around it, like cutting down trees in the rainforest and similar objects, which doesn't happen here.
Moreover, james keeps saying we're saving it for posterity, but posterity is just going to exploit it the same way we want to.
So we're unclear on what the harm in doing it earlier rather than later is.
Our second argument is about the misdirection of environmentalist efforts.
We should put the resources we use in defending the arctic toward stopping global warming more broadly.
First, because this is likely to be good for the arctic.
It stops the polar ice caps from melting but, also, because it's going to do a lot more good for the entirety of the world if we can stop the impacts of global warming than if we just help protect the arctic.
This is because global warming impacts the standards of living of almost every person on earth, as well as brings it with it the potential for complete extermination.
While the arctic might be interesting and full of nature, it doesn't have any existential ties to anything besides itself.
We've we have to recognize that the political capital for environmentalist efforts comes from the same pot.
Similar people want to protect the arctic as want to deal with global warming, and when we're pushing for some action to occur, those people have to choose where they think there energy would be used most effectively.
So we think that if we put all of this energy behind saving the arctic, that leaves very little to stimulate and put energy in for something like fighting global warming more generally, especially since those same people also have to convince the same politicians, who will feel like they've already given ground and like given more than enough when they protect the arctic, so they're going to be unwilling to give in on another issue like other global warming policy.
This weighs directly against james' argument about urgency, because nothing is more urgent than dealing with global warming, given that we care about the preservation of human race more than we care about the arctic.
So, we just think this automatically wins the round because even if saving the arctic is urgent, what we are saving on the arctic is less important than what would be saving otherwise.
Proud to oppose.