The motion for today's debate is that we should make physical education mandatory.
Some modeling: we think we're talking primarily about american high schools and middle schools and what we would mean is that we would have one physical education class per year, mandatory for a student to take.
Two main areas of clash: first about the fight against obesity.
In order to understand this motion we think you have to understand how big of a problem obesity is within the united states.
Not only does it affect millions of people, but it is also one of the fastest rising conditions to affect individuals in a deadly manner that is occurring.
Its it's thought to be the largest cause of death in that all of the diseases that stem from obesity tend to be deadly.
It causes increased rates of heart heart attacks, diabetes, heart disease and other such conditions, that can often be incredibly deadly and long term harmful.
And while it's very bad for the individuals, it's also very bad for the government and society, when you have to increase healthcare costs because everyone is overweight and thus more susceptible to diseases.
And so we actually think that not only is there a reason that we should fight obesity on a personal level, but also a reason that the government has a permanent interest to fight obesity itself.
We also think it's important to note that obesity often starts by affecting children.
They're surrounded by junk food and they don't really have a pressure to exercise, external to those who are involved in athletics.
So like say I'm just someone who isn't into group sports our team sports at school and after that there's really no good reason for me to go out and exercise, unless I'm provided with a structured schedule that forces me to, because kids are naturally lazy and don't really feel like doing things.
As such, we think you need to start fighting obesity at the start.
You need to teach children to have good habits now so that they can avoid obesity later or even currently.
Physical education provides healthy touchstones as well as someone that they can go back to with questions.
Like you provide a adult authority figure that if a person has a question about their body, about a physical fitness plan, about the food that they're eating, they can go to them.
We think that if you start educating kids young then you can cut that obesity epidemic in half.
Because at the point that part of the reason that people and gain a lot of weight when they get older is that they don't know how to maintain healthy habits and healthy exercise mannerisms.
We thing that if you just teach them early enough then you're going to be preparing them for the future.
Our second area of clash is about teaching kids to know their bodies.
Because as bad as it is for society, it's also incredibly bad for the individual.
You feel unhealthy, you're more susceptible to diseases, you're probably getting bullied in school, because children are awful, and you're not being able to participate in the same activities that a lot of your peers are, IE those who have obesity issues also tend to have higher rates of asthma, they generally usually can't keep up with kids who are more physically fit than them another such we think that you can easily avoid this and you ought be avoiding this by teaching them these healthy habits early.
Because just like any kind of habit, we think that exercise is and a healthy lifestyle is taught or you never gain it in the first place.
So just like I need to be taught math and it needs to stick in my head early on, or the best time in my life to learn a language is when I'm very young, we think that healthy lifestyles are exactly the same way.
And we also think of these habits are much easier to teach when you're young than when you're old because once you've grown up you've already developed your own routines, your own meal habits, and you're already addicted to certain food groups that are going to be very hard for you to break out of.
And it's also a lot harder to lose weight than to just keep that weight off in the first place.
And so we actually think that if you just teach people when they're young they're much more likely to maintain these these habits into their older age.
They're much more likely to feel more in control of their body and have less issues with confidence and other emotional issues that can also stem from being obese.
And as such we think that you ought make physical education mandatory in schools.