So we agree that there are certain spheres in which holocaust denial is especially pernicious and ought be banned.
So for example, our side of the house still would not be okay with holocaust denial occurring in schools, however we think that it's perfectly okay for the individual to hold their own beliefs, regardless of how problematic those beliefs are.
So as long as our side of the house shows you that criminalizing the individual is not allowed and a bad idea as a whole, we win this round.
Two main areas of clash.
First, on freedom of speech.
I think the problem with what sam said is that he's using the wrong example, because what he's saying about the salesmen is that the salesmen knows that they are lying, right?
Like they have this good and they're just trying to sell it as much as they can, but they know that what they're saying is fake, and that's the illegality of it.
But the better example here is that we let things like we let white nationalists march, we let nazis march, we let people who have like incredibly racist and sexist and awful beliefs say those words without penalizing them, and this is because these people believe what they're saying, and regardless of the fact that it's problematic for others, we cannot criminalize what they're saying.
We think that there's also a legal precedent here, where we do not criminalize hateful speech, only direct calls to violence.
This is why we allow for nazi flags in like nazi marches, but we don't allow necessarily for like, let's go destroy the government kind of like templates and posters.
And so, we think the problem here is that sam doesn't actually demonstrate a way in which violent speech incites violence.
Like we agree that sometimes there is a correlation, but unless he shows us a direct cult of violence, we don't think that individuals are responsible for the way that other people respond to the way that they are speaking, and so they should still be able to give out those views.
Our second area of clash has to do with why you can actually get more effective counter-arguing if you allow the arguments to be said in the first place.
Because just because you criminalize someone saying something doesn't make them stop believing in it, and you end up with a more pernicious impact, because you don't know how large the following is until something truly wild happens, and we think that that current events are actually a really good example of this, because we had this happen where for years and years and years you have this population of people who were silently festering and unhappy, and like essentially waiting for their turn, and then suddenly you have donald trump running for president and you have all of these incredibly racist and problematic people coming out of the woodwork.
And part of this is definitely because our society created a world in which we criminalize their speech and shamed their speech, to the point where they only felt comfortable harboring it in secret and within their homes.
And so we think that in order to prevent this kind of situation, the only thing you can do is allow them to say these beliefs out loud, because you cannot reason with a set of beliefs unless you know what they are in the first place.
Like I can't respond to an argument until I know what I am responding to, and on their side of the house you never get the argument, you just get the end result in which hundreds of people are riding or protesting or causing violent actions.
So we think that we're actually going to get a better back and forth on our side of the house.
But we also think that a lot of the time this is exactly what allows these groups to play the victim card, they get to say but look, the liberals are criminalizing our speech and preventing us from talking and blah blah blah, and because of that they actually get more supporters, especially from younger populations that are willing to like buy this and believe that they are like oh so oppressed, and so we think that in order to prevent them from being able to use this against our own recruitment, we have to allow them to say it in the first place.
Proud to oppose.