The motion for today's debate is that we should criminalize blasphemy.
For the purposes of this round we will define blasphemy as religious hate speech targeted specifically to incite discomfort or unhappiness and we would say that it's distinct from disagreement or questioning of religion in that it specifically insults and targets it.
So the difference between saying, I don't know if god exists or I don't believe that god exists and saying your god is awful, fuck your god.
Two main areas of clash on this.
First on hate speech as violence.
First recognize that there is no difference between emotional pain and physical pain.
The same neurons fire in my brain when you are hitting me as those that when you are verbally abusing me because mental and psychological discomfort chemically does not differ from physical discomfort.
We see this also when we diagnose things like depression or other psychological disorders that these kinds of pains are equally valid to any sort of physical illness that might occur.
So at that point, if we can ban assault and like physical fighting, you should also be able to ban hate speech given that it can elicit the same kind of painful result.
We also think that hate speech implicitly freezes out the people that it's directed at and makes it so that they cannot function in that space without fear.
So because I am repeatedly called names and derogatory terms based on my religion, because you are constantly making fun of this core part of my being, I no longer feel comfortable enough in that space in order to self actualize.
We think that the rights of these people to be free and to like feel comfortable in their own free speech is always going to be more important than other rights to others right to extremist speech because hate speech makes them afraid to talk and thus reduces both their right to free speech and their right to safety to the point where it doesn't exist.
So we think that it's okay to ban this kind of speech when it's going to infringe on the rights of others and their functionality is less than yours.
But are second area of clash has to do with hate speech inciting violence.
Recognize that if you insult my activities I might be unhappy for a little bit but it's not going to change the way that I view the world because in the end I like my thing, you like yours, that's fine.
But insulting a belief system is always more likely to cause violence because it's fundamental to my existence.
It explains why I'm here and you telling me that it's wrong invalidates my existence on this earth.
We think that when the government signals that it's not okay to participate in this kind of speech, it trickles down to the communities underneath that government.
So this acts in two ways.
First, obviously, with regulating extremist groups.
If you say that you can put a nazi in jail for insulting jews, the jewish religion, then nazis are much less likely to publicly do so and cause harm.
But also when you have struggles between different factions and different sects of religion, so currently, hindu the hindus of india and the muslims of pakistan have massive rifts and often threatened violence on each other based on the religion.
But these kind of groups also tend to calm down when they see that there are governmental implications to what they are doing.
So preventing violence from starting we think is enough of a reason to ban this kind of speech in the first place because when multiple people are being harmed in violence not only are their rights being invalidated but it also creates a world in which that violence becomes acceptable and normalized and you lead to more violence in the long term.
We also think that a strong governments' signal on the part of one government can influence others and also its own.
We see this acting in two ways.
First, if you have a law in place that says don't blaspheme you're much less likely to end up with politicians such as donald trump gaining traction who are willing to insult muslims because if that's against the law you don't see it as something that is acceptable.
But it also sends messages to other people.
So if the US says no more blaspheming, that's bad.
It's much more likely that countries that want to maintain relations with them are going to stop being as oppressive to other religious groups as they previously were.
For these reasons proud to propose.