The motion for today's debate is that we should not protect antarctica.
What we mean by this is that we wouldn't have any kind of regulation that keeps corporations from siting there.
We'd probably start dividing antarctica between the two main powers that are fighting over it right now, AKA russia and america.
We think that you could still do things like allow protections for the environment or for environmental species living there, we just don't think that we'd be going to extra care to make sure that antarctica would remain untouched.
So we would allow for like the mining of oil and stuff to occur.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the obligations of the government.
Recognize that at the end of the day, the obligation of governments exist to the citizens underneath those governments, first and foremost.
This is because the social contract exists, which is a tradeoff between rights of citizens and protections that the governments offers, whether it's in terms of the military or in terms of anything like that, and so what you so because of this, the government is actively promising to provide the best and do what is in the best self-interests of of the general population.
We think this is especially true in democracies for a second reason in that because democratic officials are elected to represent the individuals who elected them, we actually think they have even more of an obligation to act in the best interests of those people.
Like at the end of the day, as good as antarctica is, they did not elect the governments that would be exploiting them for resources, and we don't think those governments have any obligation to antarctica, especially when there are citizens who could massively benefit from the kinds of resources that could be excavated or the land that could be taken within those states.
We also think that since citizens have the potential to unseat the government, we don't think the government has an incentive or should be told to act against their own self-interest in that if they are acting against the citizen's best interests, it is likely that they're going to get pulled down.
So we don't think that we can tell them to prioritize antarctica or the environment against their own longevity.
Like given that, we think it's really important to establish exactly how good antarctica can be.
Recognize that there are tons of untapped resources, starting with gas and oil, which can do a lot of good in helping those who are currently struggling.
Recognize that the dependency on the middle east and the slow decrease in the amount of oil that the earth has access to has created a world in which prices are incredibly high, and jobs that used to be fairly stable, with regards to the oil industry, are no longer as guaranteed.
So we think that an influx of gas and oil mined from antarctica is actually going to flood the market and make the prices incredibly low with non-saudi controlled oil.
This decreases the dependency of western powers on the middle east.
We think this is net positive because it means that we can finally start doing things like calling them out for human rights abuses, but also it allows more people to afford not just things like car gas, but also having heating and things like that.
The jobs that it creates are also incredibly important in that you need labor to increase once we start exploiting these resources, and these are the easiest and most high-paying jobs that can be accessible to those who are less educated or those who are coming from a lower class in society.
So we actually think that what you're doing is helping the people who are worse off currently by providing them with a clean source of labor.
Our second area of clash is about why it's better for society.
Recognize that the current state of antarctica is completely untenable.
It's a detente kind of state between the united states and russia, and we think that what's going to happen on their side of the house is that if this detente continues, it's going to get more and more intense and become a actual armed conflict over antarctica.
So I think that we need to start dividing or risk large-scale conflict now.
Recognize that we do have precedent for this given that russia often likes to levy the territories that it has against the united states in conflicts.
We saw this with things that ukraine.
And so we think that we don't want to create that final fight for control and prefer that it had real corporate lines between who could exploit it and who couldn't.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.