The motion for this debate is that we should protect the antarctica continent.
What we mean by this is that there should be stipulations that regard not allowing drilling in that area, not allowing for nations to claim it as their own, and also regulations with regards to global warming outputs given that these lead to the direct melting of glaciers in antarctica and basically other regulations that would protect us from global warming.
Two main areas of clash: the first on aesthetic value.
We think that there is value to the existence of diversity in terms of animals and landscapes regardless of whether or not they serve an alternative like purpose for humans.
Given that these things existed before humans did, and often can exist without humans at all, we think that it is that it isn't a like real thing to evaluate all beings with regards to a utilitarian standpoint and how they work for mankind.
Rather we think that a lot of these things have inherent value based on their ability to grow, to diversify, and in the case of animals, to suffer.
So we think at the point that landscapes such as those found in antarctica have are like beautiful and self sufficient, we think that they ought be protected because they have inherent value and not just value based in how they can serve mankind.
A second layer to this is that the local life just doesn't deserve it.
We think that polar bears and penguins drowning is an animal rights violation given that it is the equivalent of humans painfully murdering animals on their own.
So we think that at the point that these animals feel suffering and they can feel their environments being destroyed, we also think that it is a very easy link to show that humans are the direct cause of that given that if people did not exist there would be no global warming and those in the antarctic would be completely safe.
So at the point that we are actively causing the suffering of innocent animals and not just one or two but rather thousands and thousands of them, we think that at the point that it comes at very little cost to humans to protect antarctica, like maybe a little bit more money comes out of taxpayer pockets, and maybe you're a little bit less comfortable because you're running your heat less or your choosing cleaner energy, but in the end we think that the suffering of thousands of animals far outweighs that.
Our secondary of clash has to do with self preservation.
The melting of the glaciers in the antarctic actively destroy human life and especially coastal land masses.
So recognize that if the ocean rises three inches coastal nations actively get destroyed and suffer dramatically.
We already see this occurring when the tides of nations like madagascar destroy entire villages on the coast and make it impossible for them to grow their food there anymore and starve entire nations.
So when you are when you're not preserving antarctica and you're not preserving those glaciers, you are contributing to the destruction of human land mass and human like human life.
More than this, there are a lot of scientific discoveries and research that occur in the arctic that cannot occur anywhere else.
Very similarly to the jungle, you have historical artifacts that cannot be found anywhere else.
So like mammoth tusks and artifacts from the ice age that we know very little about, we can piece together bits of our history, and bits of genetic history more specifically, in order to understand the world and humanity better.
We think that these are like very important things that ought be protected and when you lose them due to global warming, it is a loss on the part of like what we could benefit from as humanity.
More than this though, we think that the economic damages are very large because, as we mentioned, when you're destroying coastal villages because your your sea level is rising, you're also destroying means of production, you're destroying farmland, and you're destroying like objects and cattle.
So what this means is that you have to be replacing hundreds of acres of farmland but more importantly you have to be replacing not just the economic growth of that but also how many people that it fed.
So it exacerbates issues of world hunger and things like that.
For these reasons proud to propose.