Two main areas of clash on why you ought not ban blasphemy.
First on freedom of speech.
Unlike what yaar seems to think, proudly wearing a swastika isn't forbidden in the united states.
This is because we value maintaining absolute freedom of speech more than we care about emotions.
Moreover, the swastika is not what this round is about.
Rather it is about whether we ought be able to censor religious speech and specifically anti-religion speech based on this idea that religion somehow has a pedestal that preserves it and makes it deserving of better speech than other things.
But we're going to tell you that it is especially important to rep to allow as free speech is possible in terms of religion because traditionally religion has held massive political power and has oppressed those who are secular or choose not to follow those institutions, forcing conversions and religious presence.
We think at the point that for years religious institutions were the oppressors, it is unfair now to pretend that they are oppressed rather we have generations of people that are reclaiming their own freedom from these institutions by declaiming god.
This is not blasphemy, but rather someone else's truth and the refusal of on the part of religious institutions to respect other people's truth is in itself a violation of their rights.
First we want to talk about the subversion of the term blasphemy, because yaar never gives us a good definition and neither would anyone else in the real world because there is no great definer of what speech is versus isn't blasphemy.
And what does it mean that if it aims to hurt it then it's blasphemy?
At the point that anyone can be like well this speech hurt me and thus it is blasphemy we do not accept this as a bright line.
More than this, in the status quo we see that with any kind of law enforcement changes across regions based on their political affiliations already we see that more christian areas manipulate laws and obscenity law specifically to ban books and revealing advertisements.
We think that at the point that you were also give this leeway with laws against blasphemy you can expect that southern, very conservative areas are going to push for stronger laws and regulations and you're going to see much more unjust jailings.
We don't think you we think that you should be risk averse and not allow this to happen in the first place.
Our second area of clash has to do with protection of those who aren't religious.
As long as those who are religious are allowed to freely practice, then we care more about the expressive rights of non-religious people because in the end if the faith of those who are religious is strong, no amount of blasphemy is going to change their beliefs and they have strong communities that will protect them from any kind of speech against them.
However religion also comes with communities that can be incredibly toxic and associated with outdated problematic norms.
We must allow people to criticize these structures and move past them, otherwise they will never change.
We think that a lot of the time what is going to happen on their side of the house is that religious institutions are going to ban certain types of speech, hiding behind the tag line blasphemy when in reality you have situations in which maybe a woman is crying against being forced to wear very conservative clothes or arguments against abortion.
We don't think that you should allow this leverage in the first place, especially given how many times religious institutions have subverted these kinds of standards in the past.
I think that it's really important to remember situations such as with the such with the newspaper when it came out that like a lot of priests were pedophilic and the church had been defending them.
These kinds of things can go on for centuries and because of the political capital they have, they never get regulated.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.