We think the problem with opening gov here is that, they assume that school is the only place, where you can encourage physical activity, or teach children healthy relationships with their bodies.
But the problem is that, the barriers they make up are not as sky high as they claim, it's just not true that you cannot encourage physical activity in other spheres of your life.
Even at school, students often have recesses, or periods of free time, where they can be set outside, and told do physical activity.
But more than this, we think that, even if it is easier to put your kids in front of a television, it is also easy to let them into your backyard, easy to send them to their friends house, and have them play around out there.
We think it's just not the case that it is so difficult for kids to find space, to go outside, and play, and run.
But more than this, we think that it is important to note that, if we are caring about the long term relationships, that children have with athletics and their bodies, then what matters is that these relationships are healthy.
I'm going to give you two areas of clash: first on alienating children, and second on how there are more important things for children to be focused on.
So first, I think it's important to recognize that, bad contact is worse than no contact, because the assumption of the first speaker is that, these children are going to have such an amazing time, running around outside, and doing sports, that they're going to come back hungry for more, and will habit form this into the future.
The problem with this is that, athletics is a relationship, just like anything else, and the key with healthy relationships is that they are consensual, and develop naturally.
When these relationships are forced, we think that children learn bad things about them.
We think that when someone is repeatedly the slowest one in their class, when someone is not allowed to walk at their own pace, or learn how to move at their own pace, it turns children off of being athletic forever, and takes years to rebuild those relationships.
We think that a lot of the time, these kinds of things create unhealthy cycles into the future, exactly because of things like high school and middle school gym classes, where they felt inadequate, or never learned to really like one athletics was seen as this burden that, they have to get rid of.
Second though, we think it reaffirms social hierarchies, based on physical appearances.
Lockers, and shit like gym locker rooms, are often the most vulnerable places for children to be at a younger age.
There are usually no teachers there, they're usually unclothed round their classmates, and us such, it is often times the area in which stronger children take control, and bully those who are less strong.
We think, this is where people are told that their bodies are sub par, this is where boys learn to be ashamed of their penises, when girls are learned to be ashamed of their chests, we think that things like this are important for children to be able to opt into, and desire, because otherwise, it ruins their choice like, their relationships with athletics, and their own bodies, for the rest of their lives.
Our second independent point has to do with why children should be able to choose other more important things to do, because especially in high school, children have to prep for college, and their future.
And a lot of the time, physical education takes a valuable space.
We think that, when this can actually have an impact on what your transcript looks like, and where you can get into college, it is preferable for you to not be bound by mandatory classes.
We think that being able to prioritize, what is best for your future, is very important, because it's not the case that everyone is going to go off, and need to be incredibly physically active, in order to succeed in life.
We think a lot of people go on to work desk jobs, to work in offices, to work as doctors, and a lot of the time, you don't need to be physically active, you just need to be healthy.
The problem is that, we think that health can be attained on either side of the house, through healthier means than just being forced into gym classes in high school.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.