The motion for today's debate is that we should legalize polygamy.
Two main areas of clash, the first on the principle.
Marriage is, first and foremost, an institution about love occurring between one or more people, and it's about what those people experience and the the emotions rather than the parameters.
All of the qualifiers, IE, gender and number of partners, etcetera, are manmade and often oppressive parameters that don't actually pertain to the principle of what marriage is about.
They were often created by those with more power in religious institutions and governments so they are never actually representative of the majority preferences either way.
As such, there isn't actually a good reason not to allow polygamy.
It's been both anecdotally and scientifically shown that people can love multiple other people at the same time.
If their love is the same as your average two-person heterosexual couple, then they deserve the same rights in the same way that we've come to accept that people who are homosexual deserve the same rights and marriage.
Not only is their love the same, but their reasons for desiring marriage are also the same.
They usually want their commitment to be legally recognized, want a stable basework from which they can raise children, want legal protections when it comes to divorce or splitting goods later in life.
To win this round, opp has to explain what is so fundamentally unacceptable about being polygamists and what is so different about polygamists people versus those who are monogamous that makes them unqualified to be with the people that they love in a way that is equal to others.
Because it also is fundamentally untrue that they are that these people are somehow different.
In the end, they are all like made of the same material, like in the eyes of the law they are all individuals that are equal, and at the point that they also love in the same way and want to participate in the same kind of traditions of society, we think that there is no reason that you ought be able to to exclude them from it.
And in fact we think it is discriminatory to say that because of the way in which you choose to express your affection and because of the number of people to whom you choose to express your affection, you are unqualified to the rights that others have, especially if you are still like basic like basically in terms of a human person, deserving of the same rights.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's important to extend legal protections to polygamous relationships.
Polyamory is a fact, with or without legal standing.
People are going to be living in group relationships, they do so in the status quo, and this is something that is rising in popularity.
In the end, governments are not going to be able to stop them.
So the only question in this round is whether or not you're going to extend the same legal protections, given that you're never going to be able to make it go away.
As many like to bring up, there are instances of very abusive polygamy, especially in relation in religious communities.
The problem in the status quo is that the these women end up trapped in these relationships and have nowhere to turn to, in part because they are not legally recognized.
Opp might say that this is better because governments can just shut these marriages down, but there are a few problems with this.
First, women will not report if they feel like it will destroy their entire communities.
Oftentimes, it is difficult for them to recognize their own abuse because this is where they are raised, and once they do recognize it, they feel immense amounts of guilt when they know that their actions can affect all of the communities around them.
But second, because these communities work much harder to hide their relationships, when it is not legal, and it makes it much easier to lie and say that we are not actually married if like someone actually comes knocking on the door and saying, " are you polygamous? "
But also, on a less dark note, even non-abusive polygamous relationship deserve legal protections.
Cohabitation necessarily means the mixing of resources, and a lack of marriage means that there's no official way to split communal property if things go sour.
We think it's incredibly important for people to be able to say at the end of a relationship, " here is what you are deserving of, and here is what I am deserving of ".
And when these things are difficult for people to make decisions on on their own, we want the government to be able to step in.
Especially when kids are involved, there is no legal enforcement currently to define custody or, taking a step backwards, to even adopt a child together in the first place.
Also, we think it would be nice if they were also eligible for tax cuts.
For these reasons, proud to propose.