When danny vehemently argues for privatizing social security, he seems to forget that our side of the house never banned supplemental plans.
We only advocate that there should be a baseline retirement plan that would protect all people, regardless of their income during the time that they were that they were working and regardless of what time they retired during.
Two main areas of clash.
The first in the political and moral cost of privatization.
At the point that they turn retirement care into an uncertainty and base future returns on current income due to how much you're going to get interest in your current investments, it is unfair because people don't need retirements scaled to their current incomes.
Those who make a lot of money do so on both sides of the house.
The question is only if we think that blue collar workers still deserve to retire in comfort.
We would argue that they definitely do since labor is usually undervalued and we think that my hours spent flipping burgers probably still deserves me to be able to spend the rest of my days in a relative amount of comfort, at least not below the poverty line and so far as I still paid my debt to society, still fulfilled a necessary niche in society.
And it wasn't and more than likely I was born into circumstances that predispose me to end up in this situation.
It's we also would like to point out that these that privatizing social security screws over those with disabilities or sudden injuries since they only work for a short amount of time their personal accounts wouldn't have enough in it for them to survive to the long term.
At the point that these people similarly deserve to exist, we don't think that they should be binded by circumstances that they literally cannot control insofar as if I suffer a stroke at the age of forty rather than being the age of seventy five, this is never something that I would have brought upon myself whenever something that could have been predicted but rather something that just happens and we need to adjust to it.
But if you don't buy any of that and need a pragmatic explanation, we would tell you that that hundreds of thousands of old people ending up homeless or in dire need is actually going to be more expensive for the system in the long term.
Insofar as when people cannot support themselves, they rely on already overburdened social services that then stretch these kind of services even even thinner and make it more difficult for others to access them.
More than this the like the more political undertones of seeing so many old people in danger is incredibly destabilizing for western liberal democracies.
Our second area of clash has to do with the volatility of privatization and how these costs outweigh the potential benefits.
First we want to talk about transitions because recognize that at this point there have been multiple generations of working people who have been paying into social security as a system.
Suddenly when this system is abolished how do you handle that transition.
We tell you that the up front costs of setting up private accounts requires finding that capital somewhere which initially means either raising taxes or taking large amounts of money out of the social security funds in the first place to fund this transition.
Either way you're screwing over the people who have been paying into it most recently because either they have to pay higher taxes that they can probably afford or the money that they have been paying into for their future retirement is now used up.
But it's not just that the transition can be bad we want to talk about the later volatility that occurs.
Recognize that private corporations do not have the security of government institutions.
Their stocks can fall and those corporations can go under.
The question becomes what happens to the millions of people who have their retirement money invested in these corporations when these corporations declare bankruptcy or end up not being or end up investing in poor stock that ends up dropping the values of these plans.
Essentially what you have is a system in which millions of people are screwed over because of the decision of a corporation that that they didn't even choose in the first place.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.