The motion for today's debate is that we should privatize the united states social security system.
The model for this is fairly simple, individuals will get an option of a tax through reduction in income where instead of social security the money taken from their income goes into a stock portfolio of their choosing.
I think an overview to this is that recognize that the payouts for this are comparable, but actually better than regular social security insofar as like you get what you paid in later in life, but because you have the ability to get things out at a market rate rather than like the social security rate, you actually get a lot more.
But more of that into our three areas of clash: first on why this is a more efficient system.
Recognize that social security doesn't pay out at market rate.
If you consider the social security a tax on investment, it pays out actually incredibly poorly compared to other investments.
It only does like four to five percent.
Especially if you lived a short life and then you really don't get much out of it, because you don't actually have very much time post retirement that you are able to take advantage of social security coming back to you.
But the market rate is closer to nine percent so if it's privatized you get better returns and more money out of it, and you also get to start withdrawing at any point that you desire.
So even if you don't leave a particularly long life you still have the ability to take advantage of social security.
So someone who gets to like sixty four, gets cancer, knows they don't have much left, can withdraw very quickly and things like that.
And this brings us to our second independent point which is about why this system gives greater control over money.
Currently there is very very very little control over money that is put into the social security system.
Not like in with regards to even the amount that comes out or when it comes out or anything like that, because there isn't actually a way that is like determined by you to control it.
Like everything is controlled by the government, the age that you got it back at is the government, and you get monthly payments determined by how much money you made.
But when it's privatized you can choose how much how you use that money.
Maybe you need to take a really large chunk out early so that you can buy a house in your old age, maybe you're still capable of working in what your kids to get it later on.
Something that the current social security system can never offer is the heredity of a privatized system, where you can say: " okay, like I'm not going to use this.
I'm going to keep my money invested so that my children can like take from the stock portfolio and be happy. "
We think that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good, not the government.
IE the government can't keep track of every single individual and know what they need in their life and know what's going to help the most.
So we actually think it's incredibly useful when people can say: " here's how I know I can use this money, so here's exactly what I'm going to do. "
Our third area of clash is about why social security is like not only bad governmentally, but also why it's like pretty much doomed to fail as is.
The government borrows a lot from social security without actually telling the public because it wants to keep taxes low.
So it borrows from social security and uses that for things like the military industrial complex, like random other funding mechanisms, without informing the public about it.
So the massive amount of debt the united states has, like a very large portion of that is to the american people because they keep borrowing from social security.
This is an incredibly undemocratic system in which they can artificially keep taxes low, continue lying to the american consumer and citizen, and keep like the political favor and all of that.
Because a lot of the things that they use this for our oftentimes incredibly controversial.
Without government ownership of social security the government won't have that kind of easy money revenue stream so they're forced to cut spending or pass realistic taxing policies.
Both of these things we think are preferable for the american citizen.
But also we think the fact that now this money is consistently traveling through the economy, rather than just sitting in some like in some federal bureau lake area, is really really good because it means it's constantly contributing.
Constantly being borrowed by other banks and being used to power economic growth.
So we think that's good.
But also, recognize the system itself isn't functional for much longer.
We don't have enough money to keep it going and so we need an alternative.
Insofar as people are having way less children than there are adults, so they're not actually not money going in that has to be paid out generation per generation.
For these reasons, proud to propose.