The motion for today's debate is that we should prohibit flag-burning.
Before we get into our independent points, this is a reminder that the government has an obligation not just to maintain the rights of the people but also to maintain the pragmatic good of that society and that country.
Sometimes this does mean sacrificing certain rights for the greater safety of society.
So as long as we show you that this is an ineffective form of protest that can be easily substituted by other more legal things in society and we show you that it comes with real pragmatic harms, we win this debate.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on why flag-burning is always a call to violence.
One of the ways by which we say it is okay to ban a freedom of speech, which is something that op is going to come up here and claim that flag-burning is, is if we show you that that is that that speech in in is inherently harmful to others around.
This for example is why it is okay to ban someone yelling fire in a crowded theater because if they do so and people start stampeding out and some people get squushed, this is incredibly harmful to others.
This is also why we were able to ban communist calls to violence on pamphlets because the but not the actual existence of the communist manifesto itself because the call to violence is what would harm others.
So a lot of people have very deep emotional times to the united states flag / when they see someone burning a flag they have a very aggressive and usually violent reaction because of these deep emotional ties.
This is because the flag itself is a symbol of the country and those who feel passionately about being a citizen of the united states oftentimes get incredibly upset if they see that symbol being harmed or desecrated in any way.
Given that this violates the standard by which freedom of speech should not cause harm to others, we think that the fact that people have a right to be safe and that violence is bad for society outweighs it.
But even if you think that it's still a good way by which one can express and some harm is fine as long as you still have a way of expressing it, we tell you that people's unhappiness with a country or country's actions can be can be done in a much more effective manner than by burning the flag.
Recognize that if anything, burning the flag often shuts down the communication before it has even begun because of how personal the flag is to individuals.
They see someone burning it and the next step is and they no longer want to have a conversation because that symbol was harmed.
If you want the attention of government bodies, you can do so in other ways through protests, through strikes, through sit-ins, and all of these will catch attention in an equal manner.
Our second area of clash has to do with why the flag is an infinite memorial.
There are certain sites designated within the united states and other countries as memorials for certain soldiers or certain battles, but not everyone gets a memorial and those that don't are represented by the flag.
Given the flag is a symbol of the nation and many people extrapolate this to being a representation of all those who died for the country, these we would say that it is equivalent to any other memorial for any other soldier or any other battle.
These memorials are protected legally from any kind of desecration and the same protection should apply to the flag.
For this is why for example you can still stage protests outside these kinds of memorials but if you go up to them and start destroying them, this isn't this is no longer a freedom of expression because you were desecrating the honor and the honor of those who like are represented by that memorial and also destroying the property of the united states government.
As such we think that the flag ought have the same protections both as a memorial for all the soldiers who died fighting for the united states, but also as a piece of property and symbol of the united states government.
For these reasons, proud to propose.