The motion for today's debate is that the roman catholic church ought abandon the vow of celibacy.
What we mean by this is that currently when priests are not allowed to have sex for the entirety of their time serving the church, we think that this should be reneged and that priests ought be able to engage in unions with women, or men if your church is very liberal, and like be able to have children and sex etcetera.
So, two main areas of clash.
The first on how it alienates people from the religion.
Catholicism is a proselytizing religion, which means that they care about attracting new members.
The problem is that in the modern world we are growing into a less and less religious in part due to the arcane rules that seem arbitrary and obsolete to newer generations.
So currently many people are questioning the existence of a possible god do to factual evidence based in science, but they also dislike that religion places stipulations on their on the way that they can express themselves or who they might have sex with.
And so they tend to drift apart especially we see rising and rising rates of children born into religious families who leave those families and like stop being religious.
So we think that regulations on sex in the body are unattractive to the majority of the newer generation.
This decreases your new your new pool of members considerably and we think that it would be more compatible with the newer demographic for the church to maintain its relevancy by stopping these kinds of regulations.
But more than this we think that not only does it just like passively negate people wanting to join the church, we also think that it allows anti-religious groups to blame sexual misconduct of priests on their celibacy.
We think that with rising rates of pedophilia and like church cover-ups of pedophilia on the behalf of priests, a lot of other religious groups in competition for members have basically said that the reason that the catholic church is having these issues is because of the fact that they don't allow their priests to have sex.
We think when this happens this leads to generalized scandal, especially when the church seems like it is covering it up, that turn people away from the religion and actively make it seem like a barbaric and rude practice.
So we think that people don't want to join a religion that seems to take stances that lead to the harm of some of its members and then protecting from them.
So we think that in order to not give them that opening, to not say because you sexually stifle your priests they assault children, we think you should abandon the vow of celibacy there.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why it's counterproductive.
The purpose of the vow of celibacy in the beginning is that it is supposed to bring priests closer to god if they are not distracting themselves by having sex with women.
But we think that repressing these urges in the first place is far more distracting.
The the problem is that even though you can regulate physically what a priest does, it is very difficult to regulate what a person thinks about or what they feel.
And so we think that what happens on their side of the house is that even if priests are physically not allowed to touch other like touch others sexually, they can still think about these things and it still distracts them from their faith.
So we think that if this is something that is considered sinful, we think it is far safer to package them into a relationship.
Given that humans are going to have urges that they are likely to act on on both sides of the house, we think that it's preferable to funnel those urges into a safe outlet that doesn't involve like children or political thought that it might be an outlet of children but rather just putting people into relationships.
We also think that you get more appealing to the general populace if you are a family man or can relate to others who are in families.
We think it's really problematic when priests have no prior experience in relationships, but give relationship advice to those who come to them when they want to talk about divorces or whether or not to have children.
And so the only way you're actually going to have an efficient church in which priests are able to fulfill their duties, is one in which they're also allowed to maintain relationships that they want to.
For these reasons proud to propose.