The motion for today's debate is that we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
We think that the most important thing to keep in mind within this debate is that we want to promote renewable energy given that the current situation is untenable.
There are facts in the world such as that in two hundred years from now we will have polluted if we continue with the energy that we are using we will have polluted the world to a point of habitability.
More than this the the kinds of casualties that will occur along the way will be both economically and and like personally damaging to humans.
So two main areas of clash: the first on why global warming is bad.
Recognize that global warming takes away our coastlines, destroys entire towns and homes, causes mass relocation and loss of jobs, destroys nature and species that could be helpful to humans in the future but we will never know because the jungles are dying off.
As such it is also economically awful when you are losing large amounts of land because of the because of weather changes and monsoons when you are having to relocate people in large numbers this becomes a strain not only on the individual economically but also on the government.
Large amounts of money have to get funneled into relief supports and especially in more tropical nations global warming changes the way that your farming can grow and you can no longer produce food in a way that is first, manageable to your people, but second, sellable to a point where you maintain your economy.
What this means is that in order to prevent these changes from occurring, the first step to solving it is to switching to more renewable and sustainable energy.
We think that hydroelectric dams are an incredibly good example of this.
We think that not only is it in it is incredibly cheap and very renewable, but that it has shown that it can power large amounts of space at once.
The entire state of washington in the united states currently is powered by a hydroelectric dam.
At the point that it is massively under used we think that it ought be exploited in order to not end up in a world that is uninhabitable due to too much smog and and not enough food.
Our secondary of clash has to do with why hydroelectric dams are especially under used.
Unlike unlike solar energy that goes away when the sun sets or wind energy that stops coming in as much when the wind slows down, water never stops flowing.
What this means is that it is the only truly consistent form of renewable energy because regardless of the weather and regardless of the time of day the water will always flow through the dam and create electricity.
We think that it's a problem that currently humans have a bad association with dams because of old technology.
But recognize that this has changed.
Now we have things like fish ladders that allow fish to travel across hydroelectric dams even if even if like the dam exists across the entire river so you're not actually damaging the environment that way and we also don't need to completely dam the river either we just need it to be able to flow across the dam so you don't get large amounts of rivers completely cut off and you don't damage the environment that we either.
More than this we tell you the technology is going to get even better if we invest in it more.
If we show that there is a demand for this kind of energy and that consumers want it corporations will do what is profitable.
They will turn away from less green energy and move towards hydroelectric dams and bettering that technology so that power output is larger.
We think moreover though that water and rivers is easily available in nations that otherwise might be difficult for them to get something else.
In areas of africa, where you have power, where you have things like the the like the nile you can dam up parts of the nile for hydroelectric dams and power all of the villages surrounding that area.
In areas this is like similarly true regardless of climate.
So even if you go somewhere where it is much colder such as antarctica, you would still be able to find a similar alternative.
For these reasons proud to propose.