The vow of celibacy ought not be abolished.
So first, a clarification on what our side is defending.
We're not saying that the vow of celibacy must always be kept, in fact we say that there can be different sections of christianity or religion that crops up and says hey, maybe we don't believe in this personally but we don't think that we agree with the model of government here where they basically say that all sections of christianity, all christian leaders, have to denounce the vow of celibacy as antiquated and no longer relevant.
All we're advocating is that christian groups choose their own path and if they don't want the vow celibacy then they don't have to follow it, but the pope probably isn't going to be making large declarations on our side of the house yet.
Two main areas of clash, first on celibacy as a tenant of the religion.
Some things can change: gender equality in your priests, the views that the vast religion might have toward sex and contraception, but some things are incredibly important and the tradition of how priests view sex is a distraction from god is incredibly important in creating a very solid leadership basis that will focus on the religion and focus on preaching.
So maybe when sam talks about how people don't really choose their religion, we get that this applies to people who just happened to be a part of christianity like happened to be born a christian, but if you're choosing to become a priest you're choosing to consent into those requirements as well.
You're saying, I understand the vow of celibacy exists I've been studying this for awhile and I'm okay with that.
And so we're unsure why suddenly there is no consent into priesthood even if there is no consent into the religion initially.
We also think that once you remove this tenant, definitionally, the religion is no longer christianity.
And a lot of what this means is that you're going to have people getting very angry, leaving the church, starting their own fragments, and this is how you mark the end of a religion, right?
Like already we see society getting more and more secular over time.
So on their side of the house they're also having massive swaths of christians fragmenting and breaking off because they don't believe in what the church is advocating any more and believe in fact that what it's advocating is going to get them sent to hell.
This matters because christianity is a proselytizing religion and needs to maintain a population in order to keep itself alive, like any community needs this to function.
We also think that a lot of the vow of celibacy is just true, having a family and having to give that emotional labor to your family rather than to god is definitely changing the way your relationship with god and the way that you can execute your job.
We think you see this in everyday society when people who have kids no longer maintain relationships with old friends or they have to work less because family is, and sex and maintaining all of that, is really hard for a human being to manage.
And so we think that the church actually does something really smart when they tell their leadership that this is not something they ought be getting involved in, that it's more important for them to focus on their relationship with god because this is the career path that they chose.
Our second area of clash is just an explanation of why the vow of celibacy doesn't cause pedophilia.
It's a misconception because in the end, you don't have to molest children in order to secretly have the break the vow of celibacy.
Masturbation exists, as do escort services, prostitutes and all sorts of swanky online stuff that will get you laid without anyone knowing about it.
What this means is that every priest who molests a child is choosing to do so and what we ought be doing is figuring out what these systems do that allow priests to feel like they are like this is an okay thing to do, rather than just blaming the vow of celibacy as a whole.
We think the only way to actually solve this issue is to stop covering up and start educating, because clearly there are something that among all of the choices is causing priest to choose to prey on children and we don't think that when there are alternatives present, if you want to break the vow of celibacy, that is the vow of celibacy that causes it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.