The motion for today's debate is that childlessness is advantageous.
Two main areas of argumentation: the first on personal advantage and why every woman is individually better off when she chooses not to have children.
First, we want to talk about career opportunities, because we think that being pregnant for nine months and then giving birth and taking leave is uniquely a female problem.
We tell you that, oftentimes, during the course of pregnancy, women have to take reduced hours insofar as it is literally unhealthy and dangerous for them to be on their feet for the same amount of time as they usually would.
The problem with this is that every hour not working, that other people are, is an hour where you're not impressing the boss as much as these other people, where people can pretend that they're picking up slack for you, even though you're literally cannot control the fact that you cannot work right now.
But the issue doesn't just end with being pregnant, the problem extends with what happens after.
Because recognize that directly after having a child, there are two scenarios: either your work has maternity leave, in which case we still tell you this is not the best thing for you insofar as this is still time in which you're not taking care of your job and in which other people can get ahead of you in the workplace, in which case, your job your boss doesn't think of you when considering who they give the next promotion to.
But also, recognize the alternative scenario.
Because many jobs don't have maternity leave and in these situations, women are literally forced to choose between being able to keep a job and their career and put food on their table or taking care of the child they just had.
We tell you that women are uniquely pressured into choosing the latter insofar as in two-parent households, the man sees it as the woman's responsibility, as well as society, as a whole, sees it as the woman's responsibility to take care of their child first.
The problem with this is that entire careers end when women have to leave the workforce with no guarantee of rehiring and have to start from the bottom when they come back.
Next, we want to talk about economics.
Because we tell you that sure, a lot of parents don't mind spending money on their children, but that money is personally better invested when it is spent on you.
Therefore, we tell you that it is preferable, instead of buying diapers and paying for your child's education, to put that money into your retirement fund or into buying basic pleasures that make you happy and are personally self self-actualizing.
Finally, we wanna talk about personal relationships under this, because recognize that time put into building relationships with your children is time not building relationships with others.
The problem with this is that I'm never going to be able to talk to my child about what my husband did that night or how things at work are going, but, unfortunately, the people who I can talk to about this are people who I no longer maintain relationships with because after being up until five AM for an entire week straight, I just don't have the energy to go out with my friends the next day.
Don't let these relationships go foul, don't have children and actually be able to maintain them.
Our second main area of argumentation has to do with feminism and obtaining equality for women.
Because we tell you that patriarchal institutions are, in part, maintained because men aren't seen as having a weakness point that is childbirth.
Bosses don't see them as a liability because maybe they'll have to leave work when their kid gets sick and they have to pick them up from school.
We tell you that the only way to break down these kind of institutional barriers is by being able to be there at all times, not giving your boss an excuse to call you unreliable, and the only way to be able and that is the only way in which women actually get into the higher echelon and are able to hire more women and propagate good feminist thought.
But finally, let's talk about why maintaining mass female independence is good and why children hamper that.
Because recognize that in most situations, society and their husbands put the responsibility on women to take care of children first.
We tell you that this leads to two things.
First, it's just easier for men to leave when they no longer want to have kids.
They're seen as the hampered-down, nagged dad who deserves some time for themselves, and women are the ones who end up tied down to their children and not able to take advantage of other opportunities.
But also, we tell you that it's just easier for men to leave entirely, leaving women completely tied to their children, both economically and in terms of career opportunities.
You'll just never be able to access the same benefits as other men, never being able to break down the system.
For these reasons, proud to propose.