We want to talk about why you should shouldn't legalize polygamy.
So, first, let's recognize that people can individually practice polygamy in both in both worlds that we're talking about.
All that matters in this round is about government policy and whether or not that's a good idea, specifically the codification of this kind of thing in law.
You will have religiously and spiritually recognized polygamous marriage on both sides of the house.
The question is do you want legally for these kinds of things to be recognized too?
Three main areas of clash: first, on why it promotes an abusive system.
Because recognize that in the majority of situations, polygamy is something that is used in very religious, strictly christian communities to essentially propagate this patriarchal system in which one man will have multiple women in order to have the most children possible, and we think this is incredibly problematic, right?
Like it's basically saying the thing that in the status quo is considered incredibly abusive and makes it legal and because of this, it makes it impossible for the government to come in and actually prevent these kinds of things from happening.
Because in the status quo, we can basically go into utah, find a family that practices polygamy, and then be like, " no, stop that, this is illegal, " but when in reality what we're doing is saying, " you are abusing these women by forcing them into marriages that they don't necessarily consent into, and you should stop doing that. "
This is something that can never be done on their side of the house, because now you have to actually figure out the individual behaviors that are problematic.
This is a much more lengthy process, it is much more expensive, and we think that it's much less likely to occur than just coming in and saying, " you're polygamous, stop it. "
We also just think that propagating these patriarchal norms are really, really bad.
Like any system in which there isn't equality of access to a certain legal standard is not a system we think we should be supporting.
Our second area of clash is about minimizing tax fraud, because first we need to agree that presumably marriage is supposed to mean something besides a verbal label, right?
Like it is it defines a union that is somehow unique and somehow sanctimonious, but the problem is that the government can't get into our heads.
It can't sit in my brain and say, " well, I can see that you're really in love, and I can see that you're doing this for the right reasons, so here's a marriage license. "
Rather, we rely on on quantified, like, empiric data that we can see with our own eyes and unfortunately, our eyes are incredibly limited.
So all the government can actually recognize is the number of people entering that union, and that's like a minimum bar of " well, we know the rest of you must be committing fraud and so we can't allow you to do that. "
So we think that given that there needs to be a way to delineate between real and fake marriages, we also need to recognize that there isn't any such way on government's house.
Currently we do everything with number requirements but with polygamy, anyone can get married with however many people and claim benefits.
That means that there is nothing that stops me from graduating from college, marrying forty of my best friends, because we all want to claim tax benefits and throw all of our like property together in order to like be able to live cheaper, etcetera, and then get divorced later if we feel like actually getting married to someone for real.
And so we think we need to be able to legislate this if only to minimize that fraud.
Our third area of clash is just about why this is legally incredibly difficult, and thus the government shouldn't tamper with it.
First, we're unclear on how you are able to divide goods and other things when you have more than two people.
Like it's already incredibly difficult for courts to decide divorce affairs in the status quo, and we think that adding any number to this is at a is just a strain on our system and prevents us from being able to actually mitigate real court proceedings and real problems.
But second, we want to talk about kids, because we think that given that they are often the intermediate that is too young to consent and often caught up in these kinds of deals, we think it's uniquely bad for a child to be stuck in divorce proceedings of a polygamous marriage, because whereas with parents, you can at least say, " okay, fifty fifty, " in marriages more than that, it is oftentimes very damaging to say, " okay, each of your six like parents, you get to spend one sixth of your time there. "
This is very emotionally and psychologically jarring, it's very difficult for children to establish a sense of identity, and they deserve to have a more permanent system.
So, insofar as it is literally illegal for us to continue in a way that is like efficient and won't prevent the functioning of society, don't legalize polygamy.