We should limit executive compensation.
In the united states we have a massive problem with inequality.
Those at the top of a corporation makes thousands of times as much money as those at the bottom.
As such we believe government should step in to rectify this imbalance.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the government should pin the maximum executive compensation to the minimum wage.
We would say that in a place in the united states that has say like an eight twenty five per hour minimum wage, we would be comfortable pinning the maximum executive wage to about two hundred times that wage.
We think that this is fair and it'll guarantee that there's both political change to empower the poorest in our society but will also allow for competitive compensation among executives such that businesses can still recruit them.
With that mind we have three arguments, first on political change.
If executive compensation is linked to the minimum wage, we think that there will be increased power and increased money going towards policies necessarily empower the poorest our society.
Why is this the case?
Because executives hold a massive amount of power in our society.
They control corporations, they necessarily control the discourse in corporations, control a lot of ideas that come out in our entire society through a market based because we are a market based economy, and they're able to pump out massive amounts of money into elections.
This means that they are able to able to and willing to manipulate politics most of the time.
We believe that they also would always like a higher wage.
As such they will be willing to support the minimum wage if it necessarily means giving themselves a pay increase.
This means that in areas where the minimum wage is very low, say seven dollars and fifty cents an hour, we'll see an increase in that wage allowing people to afford more food, more amenities, and generally live a better life.
Secondly though we think that they'll be a political change because individuals who were once in poverty will have increased spending power.
Politics are necessarily controlled by money in our modern day.
Collective action groups depend on these sort of donations to guarantee that their efficacious.
If individuals who were once in poverty can now spend money and particularly spend money on activist groups who fight for their own causes we believe that money will leave politics in an incredibly important way and the people in poverty will have more political say.
Our second argument is about corporate incentives because we think that when you decrease executive pay, corporations have more resources to put towards other things.
We don't we think that the decrease in executive pay will not harm corporations because the decrease in pay will be uniform across all corporations.
Typically when you cut someone's pay, that person will leave your company and go to another but if you necessarily put a cap on all individuals' wages, you guarantee that they cannot simply switch from one business to another if they want to make a high wage.
As such there will be a decreased operating cost among corporations.
This will allow them to do one of two things: either a.
They will lower prices to compete with other industries and capture more of the economy or b, pay other employees to increase the quality of their products or increased employee morale more and compete that way.
Either way we think the well being of society is better.
Either the consumer has more power because they pay less or the average individual in the company is paid more money guaranteeing that they can live a higher quality of life as well.
Our third argument is about individual incentives because we don't think that being an executive is actually that good for the economy or for the world writ writ large.
We think individuals who are intelligent enough to rise to the top of a corporation would necessarily be making the world a better place if they put their time and energy towards other pursuits.
If they pursued technology, if they pursued being a doctor, this would allow them to still make a considerable wage but use their knowledge and experience for better uses for the world.
As such we think individuals will change industry, stop being executives as often, and make the world a better place.
So proud to propose.