I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should ban reality television.
Reality television is not the highest form of entertainment.
That being said, when government steps in and tries to regulate what we watch and consume, it is being truly abusive.
There are a number of criteria by which the government can step in and ban something, but we would say that when the market has decided that reality television is worthy of our time and attention, we ought respect that.
Reality television may further problematic stereotypes, but it also contributes to a meaningful discourse that allows us to identify those stereotypes in society.
Furthermore, because the market is effective in determining what the best thing for individuals is, we think we ought respect that.
With that in mind, I have three arguments: first on how this is a government overstep, second on the alternative forms of media, and third on the discourse created by reality television.
So first off on government overstep.
Recognize that this is nothing more than censorship.
Banning reality television is telling TV studios and telling producers what they are allowed to create and what they're allowed to talk about.
It is telling people that using candid and real situations that you have in certain ways created, is fundamentally unjust simply because the government believes it is so.
Now the government can only step in in a few situations: first, if there is a third-party harm.
We don't think there is a massive third-party harm to reality television given that the individuals involved with it sign contracts and understand what they're getting into.
Second, if the material is so heinous that it creates violence and true hate.
We would say that a lot of forms of media cause some sort of bias.
Every time that I watch something like " law and order ", if they pick a white criminal or a black criminal, it will always subconsciously bias me.
We think subtle uses of stereotypes are not enough for the government to ban something.
If it fails both of these criteria, that there's a third party harm or that it causes extreme prejudice, we think it is unjust to censor things.
Every time the government censors speech, it is telling us that we do not deserve to talk about something.
It is pushing it out of the accepted realms.
We think this is bad for two reasons: first, because individuals ought be able to articulate what they want.
If reality television were ever to become profoundly racist, sexist, or generally problematic, we think the market would solve for this.
Furthermore, we would say that when you restrict the rights of individuals to say what they want, you are restrict their political rights insofar as every action is inherently political.
Every action informs how we act.
That means that when you censor these things, you are always affecting people's opinions.
The second reason this is problematic is because it disrupts investors into these kinds of markets.
If the government proves and has a proven track record that it is willing to ban particular actions outright, then individuals will be afraid to invest in a variety of markets.
We think that individuals invest in markets, understanding the supply and demand of that particular market.
If the government steps in and is willing to just destroy it with little to no warning, individuals will be afraid to invest or even to engage in society.
My second argument is about alternatives, because my opponent's case rests largely on the idea that the alternative to reality television is " planet earth ", is a documentary which educates people.
That's not true.
If I'm not watching reality television, I'm watching an offensive sitcom.
I'm watching " family guy ", I'm watching " american dad ".
These are the kinds if someone wants to watch problematic television, there are always options available, and banning reality television does nothing to further individuals' education.
My third and final argument is the idea of discourse.
Give my opponent everything he says.
Even if you would give him the total world in which he actually discusses reality television, we think that he still doesn't win.
Why is this the case?
Because in a world where reality television exists, where it furthers problematic stereotypes, we get a discourse about it.
Reality television is a common denominator for many individuals.
It attracts millions of people every night.
A clear way in which we can access discourse about race and gender is through reality television and the lens that it offers us.
Things like " big brother ", " survivor ", and " the amazing race " have always been surrounded by controversy and as such, have always lead to a better discourse about the world.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.