Sex education should be mandatory.
When a particular topic is essential first, to have an informed populace and second, to live in a healthy modern life, it should always be mandatory particularly in the united states where political interests have repeatedly mis-allocated funds and misappropriated school resources.
We would say that sex education should be mandatory.
In our model we would say that the federal government of the united states should create a clearly defined curriculum for sex education which includes the health of both men and women as well as inter-sectional rights as well but focusing primarily on the core issues of health and how to have a healthy sexual life.
Three arguments for why the class should be mandatory.
First off, it meets every standard for a mandatory class.
We would say that any class which meets every single standard for a mandatory class ought to be instated.
There are three key standards when deciding whether a class should be mandatory.
First, if it leads to an informed populace.
It is clear that sex education leads to a better informed populace given that it is key to voting for a variety of health based policies that better helps individuals empathize with other people and understand the arguments regarding health care in the united states.
In foreign populace it is a turnkey because it leads to better political engagement and a better quality of life overall, key things which school tries to ensure.
The second standard is that the class is accessible.
First we would say it's accessible to every single student given that students will always have something valuable to take from it, will always be able to apply the lessons learned in sex education to their everyday life.
Furthermore, we would say that there are a variety of resources available for schools and teachers alike to be able to teach teach sex education so there should never be a resource sorted shortage sucks such that sex education cannot be taught.
The third standard is that the class is essential for modern life.
We would see any class which is required to to even engage with society overall, should be mandatory.
This is why we have english and writing class is mandatory in the united states because the inability to even engage with the subject area would lead someone to be necessarily stunted.
At the point where sex education allows for individuals to literally live their life healthily, to understand how to have basic bodily upkeep, we would say that is clearly essential for modern life.
For a class to be mandatory it only needs to meet one of these three standards, but at the point where it meets all three standards is incredibly clear that sex education should be mandatory.
Now the second argument for why sex education should be mandatory is that simply it leads to better health.
It teach individuals how to have a healthy sex life and typically how to avoid unhealthy relationships.
This is key to a good quality of life because when you are bound to another individual either due to a pregnancy, to a health issue, or due to an abusive relationship, it is essential to understand either how to cope or get out of those situations.
Additionally it teaches you about the health of other individuals.
We would say that when individuals are better informed about each other's health and they're better each other's lifestyles, they are better able to to assist one another in living a healthy and happy life.
The third reason stemming once again from the first argument I had, is that sex education leads to better policy making.
When lawmakers in the united states literally say that a woman's body can shut down in cases of illegitimate rape, you would say that there's clearly a lack of sex education in this country.
At the point where individuals understand how bodies work but also understand the lies told them by politicians, we think they'll be better able to engage with the political process and make better policy and elect better representatives.
As such, sex education should be mandatory.