I stand firm in opposition to the motion, we should limit the right to self defense.
Before I begin with my substance material, I want to first address a major issue with yaar's interpretation of this motion.
Yaar tells us, that the right to self defense in this case refers to stand your ground laws, and that by limiting the right to self defense, we should repeal stand your ground laws.
And then, he talks at length about the role of police officers, and how police brutality is a huge issue in america.
The problem here is that stand your ground laws have nothing to do with police officers.
When he decided to defend the niche world that is only stand your ground laws, he forfeited all rights to discuss the role of police officers.
I will discuss in this case, first how judicial interpretations are inherently biased, and how the only way, that we can actually prevent police officers from harming black individuals, is through the usage of stand your ground laws, and the ability to actually, meaningfully, control yourself in a public space.
And secondly, discuss why the right to self defense is fundamental for both political efficacy, and having a good quality of life.
First on judicial interpretations.
Now, yaar has it backwards when he says that stand your ground laws allow individuals to kill black people without repercussion.
Recognize, that george zimmerman was able to get through on pure unmitigated racism.
The fact that stand your ground laws exist are unlikely to change that fact.
When a predominantly white jury decides that this individual would meaningfully have been harmed by trayvon martin, this would've occurred on both sides of the house.
George zimmerman pursued trayvon martin clearly violating stand your ground laws, and as such, under any reasonable interpretation of stand your ground laws, he should have been convicted.
It is feasible to say that a defense of george zimmerman could be found under any other law, which would allow him to get off scot free.
Now, what having a stand your ground law actually does, is it allows black individuals to stop violence against them by white individuals.
A lot of the time, neo nazis use force, use bombings, to harm black communities.
However, what stand your ground laws do is it provides a way in which, under every single circumstances, these individuals have a right to defend themselves.
Recognize, that judicial and jury based interpretations of the law will always go on the way will always err on the side of power, that is give power to the most give more power to the most powerful individuals in a given society.
What having a clear statement, telling individuals that they can always stand your ground, does for for traditionally oppressed individuals is that allows them to protect themselves in a public space, and stop being harmed by other individuals.
Additionally, at the point where self defense is a right and is fundamental, it is unclear why the minute cases on either side actually matter.
We should be discussing about the overall philosophical justifications for these rules.
However, if we discuss pragmatics, it will always err on the side of justice, when we allow things like stand your ground laws.
Now, my second argument is that the right to self defense is fundamental.
As yaar says, it is natural and unalienable.
The inability to control yourself in a public space, to strike back against individuals who attempt to impose their will on you through force, is essential for political efficacy.
When fascist demonstrators can say that we will hurt you, if you do not move, being unable to say: I will hurt you back if you try to hurt me, means that people cannot have political power.
Fascist demonstrators have have proven time and time again, that they're willing to use violence to get their ends.
Without the ability to express yourself politically, society worsens, and you cannot effectively engage with your government or your society, and things like police brutality increase.
So, because this is both pragmatically and philosophically good, we are so proud to oppose the motion.