I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should make abstinence only sex education mandatory.
Abstinence only sex education has been proven around the world to be an outright failure.
Making it mandatory, that is restricting school choice, only makes the situation worse.
Imposing a shallow and universal world view on individuals who would otherwise teach their children far more effectively.
I have two arguments in today's debate: first off on how absence only only education fails across the board, and secondly on school choice.
But first, some brief observations about the model.
My opponent suggests that this gives schools choice, that they have a mandatory abstinence only sex education class, but they can also adopt a a non mandatory sex education class where individuals learn holistic sex education.
There are three issues with this: first, it knifes and destroys the entirity of their case because individuals who are so zealous, and evangelical that they would remove their child from school if they were taught universal sex education will do the same in any school which adopts both strategies as potential learning tools.
Secondly, what this model does is it destroys particular school districts who decide both, as school districts are in the united states are mostly poor and can't afford to have two different classes for the exact same purpose.
As such, schools are given two choices.
Either, a, they go bankrupt trying to teach two different kinds of sex education, or, b, they only teach abstinence only, destroying all the benefits they hope to gain from this model.
The third and final issue with this model is it creates tiered education where the elite get better education than the poor.
Regardless of what this education is about, tiered education is inherently unjust and pushes individuals in the lower tiers of the site socio economic ladder into cycles of poverty which they can never escape from.
Now my first arguing about how sex absence only sex education fails.
In states which we only use absence only sex education the rate of ST I STI you commonality among teens is incredibly high, teen pregnancy is far more high than in holistic sets sex education states and teens are far more likely to be harmed in the act of sex and not understand other preventative activities if when they take only absence only classes.
As such, this will cause the whole of the nations to be less healthy and have considerably more unplanned pregnancies.
Additionally, many individuals are just as liberal as a conservative people who would pull their child out of a school which only which only teaches a holistic sex education.
What we mean by this, is incredibly liberal parents will take their child out of school if their only option is abstinence only.
The best option for schools to give them choice.
This leads to my second argument about school choice.
Schools can only be effective when they let teachers and the school district as a whole decide their own curriculum.
If teachers have to teach things they do not believe in, he'll either, a, commit crimes as they refused to follow federal jurisdiction and not offer absence only education, or, b, teach something that they're not passionate about and do not believe in creating considerably worse education for all students.
At the point where individuals will leave schools in liberal school districts if they only get absence only education, and the students who stay in that school get lack luster sex education because the teacher does not believe in it, we ought gives schools autonomy, provide some nuance in the law which will create a much better educational system for the whole of the nation.
As such, we should not make absence only sex education mandatory.