I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should limit freedom of speech.
There are certain rights that must be understood as absolute.
The freedom of speech is one of them.
Although individual speech may impede other individuals from doing something, we think that individuals being able to formulate their own thoughts and engage in a positive and effective discourse, is the most important thing possible.
Even if that discourse is hateful, even if that discourse would not be conventionally described as productive, we must always defer to the individual.
Because we think that when government tries to define what is or is not acceptable speech we always fall down the slippery slope into oppression.
As such, we would say that freedom of speech should be protected outright and I have three arguments to support this motion.
First, that hate festers in the shadows.
When we ban freedom of when we ban particular speech, certain things happen.
First, we think that or hateful speech becomes more cool in many regards.
The taboo is always attractive.
Individuals always want to try what is not allowed.
As such, when you make hate the secret club, this elite organization, individuals will always strive to to join it.
As such, you we you will likely see an increase in the total amount of hate even if you take steps against it.
The hateful individuals can furthermore paint themselves as the one who are oppressed, as the ones who government are targeting outright and as such, attract more support.
Additionally, we think that the hate will get worse.
If individual if an individual may simply hold hateful views before their speech is limited, we think they're far more likely to act on it after their speech is limited.
Why is this the case?
Individuals will always label their opposition with broad terms.
They will always say that the people trying to oppress them are their opposition.
What's incredibly problematic is when you take steps against an individual or an ideology, that individual will then take steps against you in order to protect their ideology.
You'll see far more terrorism, far more violence from hateful individuals if you try to ban their speech and organization.
My second argument is that the government is a terrible arbiter for what speech is acceptable, why?
Because the powerful being able to decide the truth means that they can create the truth.
They can decide our speech.
They can tell us what we can and cannot discuss.
Will always have the ability to do what they want with little to no repercussions.
Effective political organization depends on individuals having the ability to discuss whatever they would like.
As such, we think that the government will always ban speech to their own benefit and to the harm of the people.
Furthermore, we think the government's incredibly easily captured.
This is when you see current laws about things like filming at dairy factories.
Individuals who do that in the status quo can be charged under terrorism laws.
This is clearly censorship in the worst way possible.
It is demonstration that the government has been captured through money and that governments are effectively at the whim of corporations.
By allowing corporations to define speech, you will always lead to monopolies and always lead to even worse oppression than governments doing it.
My third argument is how the court can be used as a silencer if we try to limit free speech, why?
Most people cannot afford to go to court.
Court is incredibly expensive.
If I live in poverty and someone says " I'm going to sue you " I will probably die.
I simply do not have the money to hire a lawyer which means that I either a, use up all my savings to pay for a lawyer or b, lose the court case and use up all my savings to pay the person suing me.
The problem with this is that even though people in poverty may win court cases, the very threat of a court case based on speech will cause them to essentially drop whatever they're doing, will make it so they'll always cater to the powerful individuals suing them.
We think that these cases are likely to be thrown out on face if freedom of speech is not limited.
However, if some speech is limited the court will be necessary to arbitrate this and as such, the court will be used as a weapon against the poor.
For this reason, we should not limit freedom of speech.