I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should limit executive compensation.
When the government tries to intercede in market interactions, all that it does is reduce the total efficiency that would otherwise guarantee that individuals can access some conception of the good life.
When we try to limit executive compensation individuals massively change their incentives and the incentives of corporations have to change as a result.
The immediate loss of efficiency, because individuals do not know what is best for them, is inherently problematic, but the long term effects are where we really see this as a bad idea.
My opponent has two arguments which I will address before I get on to my own substantive material: their first argument is that this creates an incentive to raise the minimum wage.
Two reasons why this isn't true: first, we don't think that wealthy individuals will have as much money to lobby or otherwise pressure individuals to raise the minimum wage in a meaningful sense.
What this means is that because most people don't make the minimum wage and executives will be unlikely to push for a minimum wage change they don't have the money to meaningfully change opinions in their votes have less power as such, we think that we won't actually see an increase in the minimum wage.
Although political power may shift from the wealthy to the middle class, we think the middle class has even less incentive than the wealthy to increase the minimum wage, as it will reduce their competitiveness in the job market and increase the price of their products.
Second though, we don't think that raising the minimum wage is inherently a good thing.
When you raise the minimum wage in society corporations must either sell more products or increase the price of their products or cut labor.
We don't think it's likely that they'll sell more products inherently given that all that reason, raising the minimum wage does is create a wealth transfer from wealthy individuals to poor individuals.
So that means they either have to raise their prices, meaning that there's no effect of raising the minimum wage, or cut workers which means they have no way to feed themselves.
This is problematic and will generally be bad.
With that I have three arguments.
My first argument is that we lose labor out of the executive pool.
My opponent wants to mis-characterize executives as individuals who just sit around all day doing nothing.
But they actually provide a lot to a corporation and allow them to function considerably more efficiently.
Each and every single time that we attempt to push them out of the sphere, push them to be a doctor or a scientist, we first make it so these corporations are less efficient.
You get less intelligent people getting into these positions and as such corporations are more mismanaged and more likely to have abuses against their workers.
Additionally, as you push individuals into science and medicine, you decrease the price of those fields.
As the supply of labor in those fields increases but the demand stays the same, all that occurs is that wages go down, further depressing the economy and depressing the incentive for individuals to pursue high skilled labor at all.
My second argument is about market distortion.
All that corporations do is hire individuals based on their efficiency.
That is to say if the increased efficiency from hiring another individual is more than the cost of hiring them, then I will hire that person.
All that we do from this is decrease the total amount that these individuals are paid, but also decrease the total amount of efficiency that comes out of this.
As such we will shift the market demand for executives out of equilibrium either leading to producer or consumer loss, which cannot be returned without undoing this policy of limiting executive compensation.
My third argument is that this reduces innovation.
Because a major reason that individuals strike out on their own or try to be entrepreneurs is because in their future, in the future they can be an executive who makes a lot of money because of their own innovation.
Because individuals have less of an incentive to pursue this sort of fields they're less likely to start their own businesses, less likely to innovate, less likely to fight for their own patents, and as such the result is that individuals will generally just leave this field, decrease in the total amount of innovation and making society worse off.
We think that the society is always best when individuals are innovating and trying their best to produce new technologies which they can use for the benefit of all mankind.
For this reason we should not limit executive compensation.