I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish the right to silence.
The ability to be silent in front of police officers and when questioned by the state is essential in order for individuals to maintain their autonomy, their privacy, and have a fair trial.
There is an incredible asymmetry at all levels when you are being challenged by the state.
When you've been put on trial at a criminal level you have no power.
It is a miracle that anyone gets off for free.
There are incredible checks put in place like the right to silence to guarantee that individuals are not coerced or abused by police officers.
With that in mind, I have two arguments for why we should abolish that we should not abolish the right to silence.
First, on the power asymmetries that exist throughout the political system and second, about how there'll be inherent abuse and misrepresentation if we remove the right to silence.
But before I get on to that, a brief overview.
I want to address what this debate is actually about because my opponent suggests that individuals should not have the capacity to be silent but they need to maintain things like the right to not have self-incrimination.
A few issues with this: first, we think that in the status quo as I suggest you don't have a total right to silence.
You can be compelled to testify the exceptions are spousal privilege, religious privilege, a attorney client privilege, the variety of privileges that we think are essential and important for individuals to exist as healthy individuals and have a fair trial.
My opponent never addresses these, so I don't assume that he's removing them.
The other reason individuals have a right to silence is if they are afraid of self-incrimination, if they're afraid of the police will use against them.
At the point where he is not defending removing the right to self-incrimination and he is not removing the right to particular kinds of privileges it is largely unclear which right he is abolishing.
To this end we must assume that he is removing the right to self-incrimination because if he doesn't all silence could always be misconstrued as potential self-incrimination and as such, we would never truly change the right to silence.
-s leads me to my first argument about power asymmetries.
The cops will do literally everything in their power to get your testimony out of you even when the right to silent exists.
Even after they tell you that you have miranda rights they will lie to you, they will lie about people around you, they will be violent towards you.
Maybe not in action by actually punching you or hitting you or generally harming you, but still making you flinch, still being aggressive and threatening towards you.
The only barrier that we have to this kind of power are lawyers.
By guaranteeing that individuals have a right to silence, we ensure that lawyers have some capability of getting into the courtroom.
We get of into the interrogation room this ensures that individuals are protected from abuse of police tactics.
It is incredibly easy for a police officer who is interrogating someone for forty eight hours, whose asked for a lawyer to get a testimony out of them.
It after forty eight hours of essentially isolation with no food, no sleep, no water, in someone will tell you anything to get out of that situation.
Removing the right to silence simply allows police officers to continue this abuse and be incredibly problematic.
My second argument is about abuse and misrepresentation.
If you do not have the ability to be silent in the face of certain questions, questions you do not know the answer to, you could easily get in trouble.
If someone asks you a direct question about something you don't know about you can either be silent in the status quo, say I don't know in the status quo, which even get you into further issues or it can you can tell a lie.
Lies will likely lead to perjury.
Saying I don't know will largely make you look idiotic and as such, the only way to avoid abuse misrepresentation when lawyers asks you ask you questions you do not know the answer to is to have this right to silence.
By forcing all individuals to set testify all that you do is create a more abusive system which will inherently put more people in jail and limit the survivability of our entire political system.
As such, we should not abolish the right to silence.