I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should further exploit small modular reactors.
Nuclear energy has a variety of repercussions and harms, small modular reactors are the worst form of nuclear energy which we can implement.
Quite simply the bureaucracy surrounding them, coupled with the inherent failings of nuclear power, make it incredibly unlikely and incredibly disadvantageous were we to exploit small modular reactors further.
I have one overview for my two arguments, my overview is about what this will actually replace.
The lobbying power of more dirty industries is incredibly strong in those states which actually still burn coal and gas quite prevalently.
It's incredibly unlikely that small modular reactors would displace fossil fuel industries, instead it would dampen alternative energy industries that are trying to emerge in those states.
Drew does not give a single compelling reason why small modular reactors would replace fossil fuels instead of less efficient sustainable energy so the market will inherently decide the small modular reactors can replace the least efficient form of energy rather than the more efficient fossil fuels that currently exist.
With that in mind it is incredibly unclear that we ought not adopt small modular reactors as we must get sustainable energy as soon as possible in order to prevent global warming and save the earth in general.
Two arguments though, first up on bureaucracy.
Quite simply, to access small modular reactors you must first pay huge amounts of money to get someone who's nuclear certified.
This means that companies who want to actually utilize this will have to pay massive amounts of money before they can even get them and second have to wait huge amounts of times for a license, licenses.
Inevitably, this will lead to huge cost overruns for projects and make it incredibly unlikely that companies will actually adopt small modular reactors regularly.
As such, building a huge number of small modular reactors will mean that they waste away in factories or unlikely to be used and give that there's no real cost saving measures means that when they are used the costs of building will also be more expensive which is not good for the economy either.
As such small modular reactors are very unlikely to be used at all and when they are used these costs will essentially be a dead weight loss so you're picking a less efficient form of energy.
Now my second argument is about nuclear failings.
Quite simply, nuclear reactors are fine given that they are stable, they are they do not move and there are a number of safeguards in place in order to ensure that they are not used inappropriately.
Having small modular reactors for certain project is far more likely to have abuse and poor safety standards.
The pressure to get projects done as fast as possible and as cheap as possible will also be a pressure to remove safeguards on the reactor, this can lead to unsafe conditions both in terms of radiation pouring out and essentially the overheating of these reactors which can leave entire areas inhospitable.
At this point we think that companies will shy away from this just both because it is scary and also if it does come to the point where they overheat, could destroy entire areas.
My second argument is the idea of waste.
We haven't actually found a good way to deal with nuclear waste anywhere on earth, the vast majority of nuclear containers leak.
The attempts of the united states to put them in places like yucca mountain ended up having nuclear waste leak into the into groundwater and destroy local crops.
Quite simply, the expansion of nuclear energy, particularly small modular reactors, only leads to an increase amount of nuclear waste and an increasing problem as such.
For this reason we should not further exploit small modular reactors.