I stand in firm opposition to the motion, health education should be mandatory.
Health education, in many cases, is valuable.
It's important.
But it's only important when someone is receptive.
As I think all of us will know, if someone does not understand something, if someone refuses to understand something, or someone just doesn't want to learn, no matter what you tell them, you're not going to make a difference.
By making health education mandatory, all that you're going to do is say things to people that will go in one ear and out the other.
That's the best-case scenario.
The worst-case scenario is what I'll discuss in my two arguments.
First, about conservative reactions.
So, if a child is conservative and you force them to be in a health education class, the result is that they simply will not learn anything.
As I said before, if someone refuses to believe a teacher, if they heckle a teacher, they diminish the total overall quality of a class.
If someone refuses to learn and refuses to effectively be a member of the classroom, it's important that we simply do not allow them in there.
That's the point of things like suspension, and expulsion, and detention.
But if an entire community refuses to learn, that is to say a community that doesn't want mandatory sex education, we think the result is that people get heckled, even the people who want to learn cannot learn effectively.
By making it an elective class that people can choose if they want to take, we feel you can get far more conducive learning environments, but we also think that parents are likely to have a problematic reaction.
Parents who feel like health education is immoral, is a sin, is fundamentally a deviant sort of thing that leads to children down a similar path, they'll take their children out of school.
We think it's far more likely for someone to say home school a child or put them into a conservative, religious private school if they think that public school will corrupt them.
This is problematic because you decrease contact for very conservative individuals who need this contact the most.
We also think that you're likely to get more problematic viewpoints in these private schools or home schools, meaning that people will grow up more insulated and more problematic overall.
Finally, we think the reaction from teachers who do not want to teach health education and also think it's immoral could also be problematic.
Many individuals who are forced to teach things they don't want to do use it as a bully pulpit.
We saw that kim davis, someone who refused to give marriage licenses out to queer couples, ultimately used it as a way to launch a political career.
We think that teachers could do something very similar where they can use this sort of ideology to push their own political beliefs or push their own religious beliefs on children.
This decreases children's autonomy because we think they should have the right to choose their own religion, to have the right to choose their own politics, and shouldn't be forced to sit through a whole class where someone is simply pushing their ideas upon them.
My second argument is the budget.
Ultimately, many schools just do not have the budget for a mandatory health education class.
It's a very sad fact that the american education system is so fundamentally underutilized and underpaid, but it is the reality.
Individuals or really schools who are forced to put a mandatory health education class into place will ultimately see themselves not having enough money for math programs and english programs.
Health is an incredibly important class that I think all people should probably take at some point in their life, but forcing people to do it simply isn't correct.
Even worse, forcing schools to do it will lead to a decrease in the quality of education in other sectors which we think are more important than health.
If someone can't do math, someone can't read at a appropriate level, simply cannot be an effective member of society.
For this reason, health education should not be mandatory.