We should ban fraternities.
Fraternities have wormed their way into the culture and infrastructure of many universities.
Unfortunately, they are antithetical to the goals of these intellectual institutions.
They promote problematic cultures which harass a variety of students, while also promoting general anti-intellectualism, which we must necessarily fight against.
This would be less of a problem if these fraternities simply existed on campuses and were largely unnoticed.
But on many campuses, they control local politics and also promote a a society which allows for cheating and violence against individuals who we must protect.
We believe that banning is the only action which universities can take, because of the massive cultural power which these fraternities have appropriated.
It would be acceptable to simply simply regulate them if that regulation was enforceable and was effective at actually stopping the problematic behavior.
Unfortunately, because these fraternities hold so much power, the only action we can take to actually decrease their influence on campuses is an outright ban.
With that mind, we would support the following model: that universities around the world ban all fraternities.
We would include all all-male organizations within this ban, particularly those which want to buy up houses or clubhouses, as we think that these are going to be organizations which are simply trying to get around these kinds of bans.
With that mind, we have two arguments: first, on toxic culture.
We think that fraternities promote three incredibly problematic norms.
First is masculinity.
We think that fraternities necessarily reward men for their masculinity.
This can involve doing stupid things like smashing tables, drinking mass amounts of beer, and largely just being violent individuals, which the media has portrayed these men to be, and as such, they are necessarily a nuisance and at sometimes a threat to their fellow classmates.
The second problematic norm within masculinity which fraternities promote is essentially a culture which rewards men for sex, but also villainizes women for having sex.
This causes a few things.
First, it creates a culture where women are objectified simply on their looks.
We think that men will always want to try to have sex with them as a result of these fraternities and as such, they will be viewed only as objects to be taken, rather than fellow individuals to engage with.
Secondly, we think that they promote a rape culture which necessarily means that consent is not valued within these fraternities.
Men will always be praised for their sexual exploits regardless of the amount of consent they received from the other participant.
This means that men utilize coercive and otherwise problematic tactics to take advantage of other individuals.
Because of this, we think fraternities must be banned to protect more people.
The second problematic culture which fraternities promote is that of exclusivity.
First, they're largely classist.
It takes a lot of money to be part of a fraternity, both to engage in all of their rituals, engage in all of their outings, which is necessary to maintain your social standing within the fraternity, but secondly, because they want to seem exclusive, they utilize hazing against individuals who want to join.
This is both inherently abusive, as it degrades their dignity through effective torture, in many cases, but also causes deaths every year against innocent individuals who do not consent to the actions taken against them.
The second reason we should ban fraternities is their effect on campuses.
They control politics on many campuses, which is inherently problematic.
Greek life is given power on the student council, which allows them to pass policies which guarantee they will never be harmed as a result of government policy.
This is problematic as they can put themselves ahead of all other individuals and utilize their anti-intellectualism to pass policies to their own benefit.
It is wholly unclear why they are given power simply because they exist rather than giving this power to through a democratic means to the most deserving students.
As such, we should ban fraternities.