I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should protect internet privacy.
My opponent's understanding of internet privacy is fundamentally flawed.
Our attempts to protect internet privacy mainly stem from trying to protect our privacy from the government, but they talk about doxing, they talk about being shamed for certain beliefs.
This is fundamentally not the case when it comes to internet privacy.
Doxing is an action that is intrinsically interpersonal.
It first depends on how much information the victim of doxing puts on the internet, how identifiable they are based on information you can find through google and other search engines.
Secondly it's done by individuals who are not affiliated with the government.
When they dox someone, even if they are a government employee, they're not acting under the aegis of the government.
As such, any attempts to protect internet privacy through regulation or laws will have no effect on doxing.
The only way in which our policies would affect doxing where if we were to pass laws and regulations which fundamentally stifle the capacity for individuals to use search engines which would be horrific for innovation and to individuals' daily lives or if we in some way made it so you couldn't put as much information online which once again would be a stifling of free speech.
This really cuts to the heart of the matter, that my opponent doesn't understand that internet privacy is a relic that privacy cannot really be translated into the digital world because of how dangerous it is.
This leads me into my first argument about crime prevention.
We think that the internet is a lot of back channels.
If someone commits a crime, if someone trades something illegally, if they steal a person, we think that these are all at least somewhat in the more open sphere.
You're either breaking into someone's house or kidnapping someone from public.
You are selling things in a public way or inviting someone into your house from the outside.
This largely covers areas which the government has control over, jurisdiction over, and can monitor.
If police were to drive down the street as you go into your drug dealer's house, this can be used against you.
If they see you selling drugs on the street that can be used against you.
But the internet once again is all back channels.
It's impossible for the government to regulate each of these particularly in a nuanced way which does not in any way violate privacy rights.
However, we think that preventing crime is far more important than someone's right to privacy.
People have a right to be free, people have a right to not be terrorized by guns, drugs, and other illicit material in their neighborhood but these are the kinds of crimes that are incredibly common on the internet.
If the government is unwilling to violate internet privacy, we think the total amount of violations of rights will increase and the severity of these rights will be far worse than compared to just violating individuals' internet privacy rights.
This leads me into my second argument that there's no right to privacy in public or on the internet.
We think that individuals who operate in a public sphere don't deserve privacy.
That is to say if you're expressing your beliefs in a public sphere or a public forum, we think that you have no real right to anonymity or the ability to be forgotten from the internet.
We also think that you are operating on public lines, on public technology.
In many cases, the way that you interact and on the internet is defined by government action.
As such we think that the the internet cannot be understand understood as a private sphere but rather a public sphere, one which the government once again has jurisdiction and the right to observe and monitor to stop individuals from violating the rights of others.
Additionally we think that there are safeguards in place to guarantee that the police and government agencies do not abuse this right in any meaningful way.
For this reason, we should not protect internet privacy.