I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban tattoos and piercings for minors.
Although tattoos and piercings may not be preliminary requirements for someone to live a good quality of life, we think that individuals are the most free and the most powerful when the government is not overstepping their bounds and violating their rights to control their own body.
My opponent seems to pooh pooh the argument regarding biopower about how important it is that we do not allow the government to govern our bodies, govern what we do to our bodies, what we put in our bodies.
We think that when the government has control over these basic functions, has control over our generally our understanding of the world that we obtain through our interaction through our bodies, we are far more likely to fall into oppression and as such, lose the democratic principles that we hold most dear.
I want to first have an overview, then do extraneous rebuttal, then provide three arguments.
So my overview is that we already have common sense regulation regarding tattoos.
In the united states tattoos require huge amounts of regulation in the status quo.
Individuals must be, I think, at least sixteen to access them.
By making it so minors cannot access tattoos, they're simply pushing this off by two more years something that we think is harmful given the requirements of religions and other groups regarding tattoos but generally doesn't actually change the total impact that it has on people's lives.
So first some brief rebuttal.
We think that my opponent's arguments regarding piercings are largely fallacious.
Piercings close up and there's usually no scar.
If they do leave a scar it's incredibly small.
We think that there can be regulations on things like gauges which makes it so there'll be no long term bodily harms and as such, we don't think any of the harms they address then are important.
As such, you should be weighing this debate between tattoos being restricted and piercings which we think that there generally no harms for minors having and as I already addressed, tattoos are already highly regulated.
Leads me to my first arguments regarding the organization of rights.
We think that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good and when government steps in individuals cannot self-actualize as they do not have the options or the understanding or just the capacity to do what they want when government has restricted it.
Secondly though, where we do not allow children to access their rights we defer to the parent who is the most likely to have the interest of a child it at heart and in mind.
My second argument is about speech rights.
Children have speech rights.
We think that when they're outside of school, they have the ability to articulate themselves, engage in political organization without government restriction.
If not, we think that children effectively live in a police state.
Although there may be some benefits to children living in a police state, we think that the massive amounts of oppression can never justify this.
When children have no rights children are inevitably oppressed and harmed and as such, we think that the whole of the nation must respect children's rights.
We think that tattoos and piercings furthermore have religious value at times are generally are statements regarding society.
By restricting this, we further disengage children from politics which is a massive harm.
My third and final argument and why this is probably the strongest argument in the round is about the effects of criminalization.
First, we will we'll see far more black markets.
When children can't just go to the local mall and get their ears pierced, they turn to their friends, the people who are less likely to sterilize, who are more likely to pass blood borne diseases.
Children will still want these things when you criminalize them.
In fact, they'll want it more given that it is now seen as rebellious.
At that point, children will be far more harmed by black market tattoos and piercings done by their friends than they are in the status quo.
Secondly, any fines put upon parents or children are both unjust and will largely lead to a decrease in educational value and just general quality of life for both parties.
We think this is unjust to harm a child if you buy the arguments regarding consent that my opponent gave simply for the actions of their parent and not stopping them.
As such, we should not ban tattoos and piercings for minors.