I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should ban homeopathy.
Although many individuals believe homeopathy is not effective, it is essential that individuals have the ability to control what goes into their own body and decide what they would like to use their money with for.
At least in the united states, money is akin to speech, as decided by court precedent, and around the world, the only way in which we can engage freely in a market economy is by deciding where our money goes.
I have two arguments for why we should not ban homeopathy: discussing the idea of government overstep and how this will actually hurt patients.
But first, an overview.
It is essential to recognize that there can be regulation in place which informs patients.
There are already labels on homeopathic medicine which discusses the contents of that medicine, can even say it is generally accepted not to be effective and that individuals should find other means of treating themselves alongside homeopathy.
At this point, we think the harms are very few and far between and are primarily the result of in of immaturity on the part of the consumer.
Two arguments then: first, government overstep.
Paternalism is only justified in particular cases.
It is essential that we curtail government action, as it largely restricts our rights.
It pushes out private investors who would otherwise engage prevalently in a particular field, and it does not engage with the marketplace of ideas.
We think that the average consumer is the best arbiter of their own good, and government stepping in will only harm people in the long term.
But, three criteria for when paternalism is actually justified.
First, if the actor cannot conceptualize the harms of what they're doing.
At worst, homeopathy just has no effect, but at best, it can be helpful for the patient.
At that point, we think that the actor can conceptualize what homeopathy does.
They can engage with the common discourse and literature out there and make a decision for themselves.
We don't ban fortune tellers, we don't ban people who give out horoscopes, so we think that banning things because they're ineffective is generally unjust and makes people disillusioned with government.
Secondly, if the actor can't control their own actions.
If the individuals who are harmed by a particular action don't have the ability to stop that action, it is unjust.
But the only person harmed by someone taking homeopathic medicine is the individual who is taking it themselves.
As such, they can conceptualize the harms and risks of their action, and government does not need to step in.
The third and final criteria is the idea of third-party harm.
It's very clear that homeopathic medicine does not cause third-party harm and as such, it is not justified for government to step in.
Given this, it is inherently unjust to ban homeopathic medicine, but there're also material harms as well, such as individuals becoming disillusioned with government and investors being afraid to invest in certain marketplaces in fear that government overstep might destroy the entire market.
Now my second argument is that this could actually hurt patients.
We would say that there is no objective truth and no absolutes in science.
Although many studies have shown that homeopathy is not the most effective form of medicine, it can be helpful in a variety of cases, and it's impossible to determine if it's actually helpful in the cases where people would otherwise be taking it.
Additionally, we think there is inherently value to placebos.
When you ask your doctor should I get that herbal medicine, should I get that homeopathic medicine, they usually say, " yes ".
And the reason why is because if you believe the medicine will work, it will be very, very helpful.
At the point where people who buy homeopathic medicine believe it will work, it actually has a positive effect on them in the long term.
We think the value of placebos are enough to justify homeopathic medicine as well.
We'd also say, even if there is literally no utility which comes from homeopathic medicine, government cannot step in and ban something which is a right for consumers.
As such, we should not ban homeopathy.