Homeschooling should be banned.
Homeschooling represents giving incredible power over a child's education to individuals who are incredibly ill equipped to provide that education.
We believe that the government has an obligation to ensure that all people have access to an effective education and when there are extreme externalities to particular individuals due to a practice which the government finds acceptable, we think the government should necessarily end that practice.
With that mind, we would say that eventhough homeschooling is acceptable at times, eventhough it can be effective, because there exists a philosophy of unschooling where children are allowed to run around and essentially learn nothing over a long period of time, we would say that homeschooling should be banned.
The model's fairly simple: we think that the government would fine individuals who homeschool their child a decent amount, would require children to attend school no matter what the first offense, where parents refuse to send the child to school, would have a fairly small punishment but repeated offenses would increase the punishment substantially.
I have two arguments in today's debate for why homeschooling should be banned.
First, about when the government can ban a particular action.
We think the government can ban something in a few situations.
First if there's imperfect information in regards to what certain actors are doing.
We would say that there is necessarily imperfect information because first, parents do not understand the intricacies of the schooling system, it is unlikely they understand the curriculum or understand what teachers the child will get and as such cannot evaluate the pros or cons of a particular action but secondly, because we think the primary object of this policy are children and given that children will have no control over whether or not they are homeschooled or go to a regular school, we believe that we are fundamentally failing them by allowing them to be homeschooled.
The second time when government can ban particular action is if it's to protect a certain group.
We think that if a group can't consent to a particular action, then the government must step in to guarantee that they have the best outcomes upon them.
This is why we prevent things like child abuse because eventhough certain parents might think it is an effective way to discipline their child, we would say that children are both harmed by it but also do not understand the implications of it and necessarily don't consent to it.
As such we think that homeschooling has profound harms to it which we'll demonstrate in our second point which necessitates government action.
The third time that government can ban action is if it's prone to abuse.
We think that honestly cocaine, heroin, meth are all very likely to have very problematic outcomes.
Now someone trying it a single time is unlikely to ruin their entire life if they can actually stop using it but the vast majority of situations it is had disastrous outcomes.
We think in certain ways homeschooling is similar if individual although certain individuals can do it well, the vast majority of situations will be necessarily awful.
Now our second argument is why homeschooling is just worse than regular education.
First we think that home schooling necessarily fails to teach children objective objective information.
Now parents teachers are not perfect arbiters of good, not perfect individuals to determine what information should go to a child, but they're better than parents in a lot of situations.
First because teachers have preparation to teach the best way possible, secondly because there's an oversight committee where teachers can be held accountable if they teach fallacious or otherwise offensive things, and thirdly because they have a numerous resources at their disposal which allows for cooperation and collective education.
The second reason that homeschooling is worse is because of socialization.
We think that school prepares individuals for the workforce, for for prepares them for the rest of their life, gives them a form of empathy with other individuals.
Because homeschooling does none of these things, it necessarily is a failure.
As such, we think that home schooling should be banned.