I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish the olympic games.
As my opponent says in his overview, the olympic games are incredibly healthy and effective expressions of nationalism and pride for the individual.
Quite simply, abolishing the olympic games would harm many states and would prevent many other states from developing in ways which would be very very fruitful.
I have two arguments today, but first an overview.
Many of the harms which my opponent argues regarding commercialization, regarding political engagement, can be reformed quite easily.
We would say that governments taking more active steps to secure and protect the athlete's would very effectively stop things like terrorism.
We would say that further promoting the individual at award ceremonies would help them feel more happy and healthy as well.
However, we don't think either of these are meaningful critiques of the olympic system even in the status quo.
Individuals are known for their individual achievement time and time again.
People who follow the olympic names or excuse me follow the olympic games know the names off the top of their head.
People like michael phelps is in are international celebrities because of their performance at the olympics and furthermore, we think the political engagement which occurs because of the olympics is incredibly effective and efficient which I'll get onto in my first point about reforming the state.
The olympic games provide a clear incentive for the state to pass policy which helps their citizens and tourists as well.
Many states upon accepting the olympic games pass beautification projects, start on long term investments for their state and otherwise help the people who live there.
Not only this but capital is far more freely available to states which decide to host the olympic games both because these investors understand that these states are ready to liberalize and simply because investors want to get in at the ground floor of this incredibly prestigious event.
As such, poor nations can use this kind of money for wide scale welfare, large and effective crime reduction, and beautification projects for their cities.
Furthermore, it signals to the world government that the host nation is ready to liberalize and become more tourist friendly.
This increases the rights for the people who currently live there and provide further incentive for governments to fight for these particular policies which improve the rights of tourists as well.
As such, the state becomes more liberal, becomes more accepting of individuals, and is less likely to see the human rights abuses which we try to avoid as much as possible.
My second argument is that this provides stimulus for the economy.
As the state continues to grow it will have a period of profound growth.
At the time of the olympics huge numbers of people pour into the city, take up hotel rooms, buy from local vendors, and spend money in the state.
Regardless of the amount of money which the state decides to put into its own expansion, which we say would never be wasted even if they don't recoup the costs because these investments are long term and are largely on infrastructure, we would say that these governments first off recoup a huge amount of their money through the olympic games and are able to propel themselves forward to become a far more liberal and friendly country.
Quite simply, the olympic games provide countries massive amounts of money to actually improve themselves for the sake of their citizens.
They're less likely to have things like that electoral reform, less likely to have crumbling infrastructure, and less likely to be violent towards their own citizens after they liberalize and after they've accepted on an international level that they're willing to accept liberal and progressive values.
As such, we should not abolish the olympic games.