We should subsidize electric cars.
Electric cars are the way of the future.
We have the capabilities, in the status quo, to generate huge amounts of electricity incredibly cheaply.
Furthermore, we have the technology to drive hundreds of miles on a single charge of your battery.
It is incredibly problematic that we have not adopted electric cars and is largely due to corporate influence and the push by lobbyists to prevent electric cars from entering the market.
We think that subsidization will solve this and, as such, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government should pay twenty five percent of the cost of electric cars or will pay sixty to seventy five percent if someone trades in their current car to get an electric car.
Our goal here is to take conventional cars off the road, to take the gas guzzlers and the huge SUVs off the road in favor of electric cars.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea, but first an overview.
I simply want to talk about why this will be efficacious in its adoption.
We think that individuals are largely concerned about the environment.
Although some people are still climate change denialists, on the whole, we see that the majority of the population believes that manmade clients change exists and is an active and immediate threat.
We would further say that many individuals want a new car.
If they can get a new car for really, really cheap or where it is comparatively cheap, they will do so.
Finally, most people who can drive right now have some sort of car.
The ability to turn in their car and pay less than half price for an electric car is likely to draw a number of individuals interested in this deal.
Finally, we think that with large amounts of subsidization, corporations will see that there's a huge demand for electric cars and will begin to invest more and innovate more.
As such, we're likely to see spillover tech and advanced technology in electric cars.
This brings me to my two arguments: first, on global warming.
We think that global warming is an immediate threat.
We see small states like tuvalu are already underwater on a daily basis and fishing villages around the world have been flooded due to global warming.
This alone is enough to create environmental refugees.
It is enough to destroy economies that depend on fishing and largely harm our environment.
It's caused natural disasters untold and unseen before in the modern day.
In the long term, though, we think that global warming is an existential threat to humanity.
If we want to prevent our own demise, we should be afraid of global warming.
Electric cars will be incredibly effective in reducing global warming.
Cars produce huge amounts of smog on a daily basis.
If we stop producing that smog, if we use energy which is largely produced through alternative means and nuclear power, we are unlikely to release any amount near the current production of CO two and other greenhouse gases.
This brings me to my second argument, the environment.
This is unique because I want to talk here about smog, asthma, and the more surface-level effects of a problematic environment.
We think that smog in the air causes health harms, causes birth defects, causes harms that individuals do not consent to in any meaningful sense.
Reducing a major producer of smog cars from the road is likely to improve our environment, reduce our health burden, and largely empower our population.
For this reason, we should subsidize electric cars.