I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit natural gas.
Natural gas is an incredibly powerful pollutant and is ultimately causing massive amounts of environmental degradation which we cannot afford in this day and age.
With alternative energy continuously looking more appropriate and more effective, we think that using alternative energy instead of natural gas is always a better choice both for individuals and for the whole of humanity.
To that end I have three arguments but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says we're far away from alternative energy now.
This is simply not the case.
Germany has had certain weeks where they only rely on on alternative energy to power their electronics, to give energy to the grid.
Britain recently announced that for the first time in history, there was a forty eight hour span where no coal was used to power any of britain.
This shows that alternative energy is feasible on the status quo and the only thing preventing its use is the power of lobbying groups like the natural gas lobby who attempt to convince governments not to spend money on alternative energy due to their own concerns about their profit margins.
My opponent's second argument is oil will run out.
This is simply not true.
Fracking has demonstrated that we can extract oil from nearly anything and that the amount of oil that we thought we had is grossly below the actual amount which we can use.
To say oil would run out is like saying the sun will run out so we shouldn't have solar.
Yes, eventually we think that oil may run out eventually however, it's far into the future so it's unlikely that using more natural gas will actually assuage the problem of oil running out in any meaningful sense.
-is leads me to my first argument that of global warming.
The use of natural gas leads to far greater amounts of greenhouse gases being in our atmosphere.
These greenhouse gases warm our earth and cause a few problems.
In the short term we already see states like tuvalu, small fishing villages and other coastal areas being destroyed due to rising sea levels.
Similarly, natural disasters on the coast or even on the inland are also destroying areas that are stricken by poverty and because they are so poor they are unable to rebuild these areas in any effective way.
This ultimately puts the harms of global warming and the harms of developed countries onto the poorest individuals and those who have caused the least amount of harm.
The least we can do to help them is to actually stop using pollutants like natural gas.
In the long term though, global warming is likely to cause the existential destruction of all of humanity.
The only way in which we can prevent this is by stopping the use of things like natural gas which cause these sort of harms.
My second argument is the environmental quality of things like natural gas.
When we use fracking or use other tools to extract natural gas we see that rivers get polluted, ground water gets polluted.
Particular areas ultimately have massive increases in the amount of disease and asthma due to the use of these sort of pollutants.
We think that government has an obligation first and foremost to its citizens and preventing them from taking harms due to the externalities of businesses.
To that end, further exploiting natural gas would only increase the total amount of harm upon the citizens around the usage of that gas.
May third and final argument is that this reduces investment into alternative energy.
Take all of my opponent's arguments at face value.
Believe them that alternative energy is far far away.
If you do these sort of things, we think that natural gas becomes a dominant force in our economy rather than individuals investing into alternative energy.
Individuals invest into alternative energy when other forms of energy seem less effective and less appealing.
For this reason, we should not further exploit natural gas.