We should ban male infant circumcision.
Our model be fairly clear.
We will make it illegal for a man under the age of consent to an elective circumcision.
That is to say, if they want to get a circumcision they will have to wait until they are an adult to actually meaningfully be able to consent to it.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First is about bodily autonomy.
We believe there exists a basic negative right to bodily autonomy.
Any and all rights that we want to give to anyone come from the ability to do what they want with their body.
Why is this the case?
Individuals cannot exercise any of their rights without a body and without control of that body.
Secondly though, we think that given that this is the case we must hold any warrant for violation of the body to a high standard.
For instance, we don't mandate that everyone give up their kidney even if there's a societal benefit to mandating that donation because we believe that individuals ought to be to define how their body is used.
It is because we recognize that individuals have control over this fundamental right.
We would further say that governments have a special obligation to protect the autonomy of children.
Governments have an expressed interest in protecting children in so far as children are wards of the state and are generally protected through our policies.
This demonstrates how we don't give parents a hundred percent of the rights over their children.
Our standard for this is fairly simple.
The rights of parents stop when harm is done to bodily autonomy without any kind of medical necessity.
We would say that child abuse laws prevent these violations.
As they say I can't cut my own child's arm off because they have the right to define it for themselves and control it later on.
Circumcision clearly violates the bodily autonomy of the child because it is a forced removal of the foreskin that violates their body as such, it should be illegal.
We would also say that there are clear medical harm of circumcision.
Surgical procedures have inherent risks of infection and other complications.
We would say that we should always default to not having surgery whenever possible as it can lead to permanent disfigurement and permanent pain.
Secondly though, we think that it's generally not recommended by the american medical association and other medical establishments.
Very clearly doctors do not think it's an inherently good idea and have generally cautioned against it.
Our second argument though, is about societal harms because we think that male circumcision makes it hard to talk about things like female genital mutilation when you allow it.
You open the door to a whole litany of harms when you have an arbitrary standard that is not enforced by government.
The question of what is and isn't a legitimate mutilation is blurred by this asinine standard that allows some mutilations and not others.
The idea that circumcision results in good cultural outcomes for jews doesn't mean it warrants an exception under the laws against bodily harms.
We would say that the same faulty standard could be applied to other practices that are inherently problematic even just because the religion defines it doesn't mean that there's an inherent right to it.
Secondly though, we think this materializes into concrete harms.
We think that when the law is arbitrary, is inherently unfair and there are more likely to be violators.
We believe that there is more crime from believers in things like FGM who come here and see the unclear standard.
We think that there's an impact of this insofar as we get increased violators of female genital mutilation laws when circumcision is legal.
Without a legal justification of why one practice is allowed and another practice is not allowed, individuals will always do it.
Furthermore, we think that there is the inherent harm of preferring one religion over another.
We can't have arbitrary standards when it comes to the first amendment particularly in regards to religion.
It's a huge violation when the government quite literally prefers one religion over another.
Why is a jewish justification for violating a child's body okay but other justifications are inherently not?
Quite simply the government cannot answer this question.
But finally though, we think of the fact the perception of society as a whole.
The government should not stand behind such inherent arbitrary standards.
Allowing this to take place hurts the legitimacy of government who are perceived as allowing harm to children to happen without any recourse.
For this reason, we should ban male infant circumcision.