We should ban free newspapers.
In our modern world, information is power.
Unfortunately, certain individuals would use that power to mislead those who follow them and spread hateful or otherwise deceitful information which causes real incredibly harmful effects.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that all western liberal democracies should ban free newspapers.
To clarify this round, when we say free newspapers, we mean newspapers that do not have any sort of fee.
This can be newspapers that have essentially only charitable donations as their base or all of their funding can come from advertisers.
In either of these situations, we would ban these newspapers as we think they're fonts of misinformation and cause harmful effects to the total access of information.
I have two arguments today, but first an overview.
We would say that government obligation would falls in two categories.
First, government has an obligation to ensure that the populace is informed.
The only way that government can check itself in a democracy is through an informed populace.
If the people do not have the correct information, then they cannot truly understand what the government is doing and as such, cannot vote in the most efficacious way possible.
The a priori obligation of government must be information and allowing individuals to use that information.
Free information free newspapers get in the way of both of these.
The second obligation the secondary obligation is simply utility.
We would say that if there is utility from banning free newspapers, then government is legitimate in banning them.
Now my first argument is that there is misinformation which comes from free newspapers.
The issue with these newspapers is that they do not have the resources for effective facts checking.
Particularly when they depend on charitable donations, these newspapers do not waste their small revenue base on effective fact checkers or editors.
As such, individuals can publish information either maliciously, if they have an agenda, or they can publish information without meaningfully checking it.
This information can cause two harmful effects.
First, it can misinform individuals so they are unable to articulate their political views, but secondly, it can also cause a feedback loop.
A lot of the time, things like wikipedia or other larger news organizations depend on smaller news sources to find particular facts.
If there is not effective fact checking on the local level, this can echo out into the international level, informing the misinforming the entire world.
Additionally, when these free newspapers depend on donations or advertisers, they're far more likely to have bias.
You cannot critique those individuals who give you money as you fear that you will lose the money that you currently have.
As such, you are incredibly unlikely to ever critique the government if it gives you money, advertisers if they give you money, or otherwise challenge their views.
This is incredibly problematic as it gives private entities control over the public resource of knowledge.
Now my second argument is that there are harmful market effects because of free newspapers.
It is impossible for paid products to compete with free.
Quite simply, people care less about effective information than ideology.
This is an incredible problem of our modern world.
Individuals will seek out beliefs that confirm their own ideas.
As such, when there is a biased newspaper which confirms your their ideas or a paid effective newspaper which does not, they will choose the free newspaper.
This destroys the total source of effective information for everyone but also has a self-destroying effect, because as you destroy paid newspapers, free newspapers lose an incredibly important way in which they themselves can be checked and a way in which they can find sources for their information.
As such, this destroys the total source of information and has major third-party harms.
As such, we should ban free newspapers.