We should subsidize investigative journalism.
Investigative journalism is the hallmark of an effective newspaper or news organization.
It is the only way in which much of the public can access information which has a which has been hidden from their view by governments or powerful corporations.
By subsidizing investigative journalism we will improve the political efficacy of our nation, generally increase the affordability of news, and lead to a spillover increasing overall news coverage in a variety of ways.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that government should pay a substantial portion of the salary of investigative journalists and subsidize papers which engage in investigative journalism.
It will be incredibly difficult to have this money taken away.
The only way in which governments can take away the money about investigative journalism is if there are no investigators at the newspaper or if the public comes together for a referendum in which the individual newspaper can be proven first to be false and also get the support of the public in terms of removal of its subsidization.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First on the political effect of investigative journalism.
Much of the clandestine operations of the US and the more problematic strategies that corporations are hidden from view.
They do not want the public to know because were the public to know, it would lash out against these organizations either through voting against them or by not buying their products.
Due to this individuals do not have the ability to articulate themselves in the democratic system.
What investigative journalism does is it expands the total access to information thereby improving accountability.
For governments it allows individuals to vote against their governments, to vote against problematic parts of their government, and to pass policies and petitions which discuss things like the CIA, FBI or other clandestine operations.
For corporations we think that the market is also democratic.
Without information, individuals can't decide what products to buy or boycott.
By increasing the total access to true in information, we will improve voting records and improve markets generally in decreasing externalities in both spheres.
My second argument is regarding the affordability of news.
Investigative journalism is incredibly expensive.
It requires paying individuals a massive amount of money for stories that regularly do not pan out.
With this in mind, news organizations have two options.
Either remove investigative journalists this means that there's no access to the truth we discussed in our first argument, or increase the price of their news in order to expand the investigative journalism department.
We think that many organizations are deciding between either of these two both of which decrease access to information for the poorest individuals.
As such, poor individuals have no access to political efficacy and because these individuals are most often the most oppressed and disillusioned by powerful organizations, they essentially have no check against abuse.
We would similarly say that messages are deluded when reported by other newspapers.
Say if the wall street journal publishes a particular investigative report, if other newspapers which are free then steel that message, we think that the message becomes less clear and there's greater chance for fake news through organizations like TMZ who might report on wall street journal reports would also just might make up random things.
If we hold them as the only source of news for poor individuals it will be incredibly problematic.
My third argument is about spillover.
We think more facts equals more news.
More coverage equals more discourse.
As such, we think the only way in which we can prop up the entire news industry is through investigative journalism.
With this in mind, we would say that we should subsidize investigative journalism.