I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should protect animal welfare.
When we conceptualize rights, it's essential that we understand where they come from.
It's not just because humans are sentient that we provide them rights, rather we give rights as part of a community.
In the same way that someone in the united states may have the right to free speech but individuals and other countries might not, we think that those rights are contextual.
In another way we think that certain state provide a guarantee to housing or guarantee to a job and yet the united states does not.
We can't say that a certain culture has the correct understanding of rights, only that the rights stem from the culture itself.
It's important to understand then that animals in no way contribute to this relationship.
We think that any understanding of rights or welfare that prioritizes animals more or equal to humans ultimately destroys the capacity for human nature and human culture to advance.
Not only that, we think that protecting animal welfare fundamentally does away with our understanding of rights and truly makes it so we cannot have moral systems that are logically consistent.
With that mind I have two arguments.
First that rights come from a relationship to the community.
There are two main ways we can understand rights.
First off is the reciprocity.
We think that if someone provides you with particular rights, if they give you something back, you owe them.
That is to say if I feed someone, I house them, there are certain obligations they then have to me which may come in the future or may be part of the present.
We think this reciprocal obligation is essential in a major way we understand society.
Animals don't really provide this sort of reciprocity.
We don't think that when you provide for an animal it's inherently going to provide back for you.
We also don't think there are systems in place such as states, taxes, governments, or regulation that pressures or forces animals to engage in this kind of reciprocity.
But a second way we can understand rights is through symmetry.
I don't have the right to kill you and you don't have the right to kill me but we can't really extend that to animals.
We would either a, have to be completely vegan and b, we would have to make it so if an animal kills another animal to survive we also punish them because rights are inalienable.
They cannot be taken away simply because we think it's necessary or even because of nature.
As such, we think it's just not consistent to expect all animals to stop hunting and by extension extend them all rights.
My second argument is that this harms human.
We think that only human utility really matters.
The reason why is because we think that humans are first, the most sentient creatures on the planet.
They are the most conscious of their surroundings, they've constructed these rights, constructed these governments, and largely are the only ones who practice and discuss ethics in a meaningful way.
Additionally, we think that prioritizing the rights of animals over humans ultimately does away with a massive amount of resources that belong to important people in our society.
When I say important people I don't mean the wealthiest, I don't mean leaders of government, I mean that were we to prioritize animal rights the prices of things would skyrocket.
The access to various resources would become far more difficult which doesn't really hurt the american middle class necessarily but hurts the poorest around the world.
We think that prioritizing animals and protecting their welfare ultimately harms the worst off by a massive amount by making all resources far more difficult to access.
For this reason, we should not protect animal welfare.