We should ban hate sites.
Hate sites are hives of scum and villainy it which allow individuals to proliferate hateful ideas and essentially engage in a cesspool of violence and hatred towards the world which ultimately makes everyone's lives worse.
In the same way in which individuals who read mein kampf and that are regularly have that idea promote in their head are far more likely to become a nazi, we think that individuals on hate sites who get illogical arguments flowery put and generally have an echo chamber of support for those arguments are far more likely to turn towards hate if they have access to these kinds of sites.
With that mind, we would propose the following model: that the government remove all sites designed explicitly for hate.
What we mean by this is that even though sites like reddit might have certain hateful forms within them or might have certain hateful posts get to the top, because they were not purposely designed for hateful ideologies they will not be removed.
However, sites like stormfront, sites that are explicitly violent towards people of color will be removed.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first off on the proliferation of hate.
We think that hatred thrives in darkness.
When there is an echo chamber which exists individuals are far more likely to turn towards hate.
Two reasons this is true.
First, individuals are far more likely to bandwagon when there is a singular ideology pushed in a particular sphere.
This is incredibly problematic as even though hate may exist in the public on our side the house, if there are countervailing ideas and individuals who can comment from other areas of the internet, we think that there will be a diversity of ideas decreasing the total amount of hate.
Secondly, individuals will get worse contact on their side of the house.
If you go on a site like storm front you will see hundreds of articles about illegal immigrants and the crimes that they are accused of committing.
Even though ninety percent of these articles are made up, this creates the only contact with immigrants as inherently hateful.
If you go towards public sites, we think that you will always have to come into contact with different kinds of people immigrants who are working to make the country a better place and who've largely fought to improve both their lot, the lot of their family, and the total well being of the country.
As such, we disrupt the meeting places of hate generally decreasing hate and as such improving total camaraderie, total economic engagement, total political engagement, and the quality of life for all people.
My second argument is about government signaling.
We think that when the government takes an idea either for or against hate it can change many individual's ideas.
Take for instance donald trump, when he came to power the total amount of hate speech increased substantially.
Individuals who were previously not hateful borrowed his rhetoric, borrowed phrases like shithole country, and became considerably more hateful.
We think government taking active stance against hate is important to deter total hate, to decrease it in any way shape or form.
Even individuals who have a general distaste for the government have some respect for authority and when the total discourse is against their ideas they are far more likely to abandon hateful ideology.
This brings me to my third argument -bout how it weakens the total strategies of these kinds of sites.
We think that brigading other sites is incredibly common.
Stormfront regularly invades things like facebook and invades places like twitter with hateful messages in order to propagate their ideas.
We think individuals are far more likely to be aware of these brigades, able to ban these brigades, if we ban these hate sites in the first place.
Secondly, doxing is an incredibly toxic tool which leads to violence against individuals.
What we do with this kind of policy is we guarantee that doxing cannot happen as if it does happen it can be removed from sites that are public and hateful.
Third and finally, we just generally decrease violent schemes, things like attacking people of color, attacking immigrants, or generally leading fake news campaigns will be undermined.
For this reason, we should ban hate sites.