I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban beauty pageants.
Although my opponent would like to discuss at length how beauty pageants reinforce and entrench problematic beauty standards, it is unclear how these standards will ever be solved simply by banning beauty pageants.
There are hundreds of ways in which the patriarchy reinforces itself and simply banning beauty pageants is far unlikely to actually solve the objectification of women.
As such to buy that we should ban beauty pageants, my opponent has to prove profound external and other harms which come from beauty pageants.
If I can prove that beauty pageants actually lead to even minor benefits to society, we believe that we should not ban beauty pageants.
My second overview is about the idea of government action.
Government should not go in and ban anything that they feel is problematic in even a minor way.
We think that beauty pageants are an expression of speech and the idea that government should go in and ban them is taking away the rights of individuals simply because some people feel unsafe.
Although many liberals like to express the idea that hate speech or problematic speech should be banned, giving this sort of power to government government can easily lead to a turning of the tides.
If we were to say that government should ban hate speech, it's unclear why governments wouldn't ban speech saying that people are white nationalists even when they are.
Only when we have the truest discourse, only when the people are the most free can we make the best decisions possible and governments taking action trying to ban people from simply expressing themselves and enjoying their life the most meaningful way is fundamentally problematic.
My third overview is the idea that individuals consent to these sort of things.
We think that even if women are objectified through these sort of processes, if they want to actually take part, that is their own prerogative.
Government should not stop them from doing so and government preventing them from doing so is infantilizing them.
It is unclear why stopping women from having autonomy, stopping them from being able to join these pageants, is somehow a just outcome.
With that two arguments for why we should not ban beauty pageants.
First off, is community outreach.
Beauty pageants, very regularly, have large scholarship funds.
A huge reason why women take part is because they want to expand their education.
And although they might be based on antiquated tradition, if they put more women in college they put them in positions of power.
That is the best way to solve the long term sexism and long term objectification.
Additionally though, it allows women to make statements in areas which they would not otherwise be listened to.
My opponent would like to say that the congeniality contests and asking women to answer questions is somehow unjust or unfair but is unclear why it's not a good outcome.
We believe that individuals can make statements about war, can make statements about what is best for society, although we only focus on the worst answers, if you actually watch beauty pageants, if you don't have the sort of stigma which my opponent embraces, you see these women very regularly give cogent and intelligent responses and make statements about the current system of police brutality, war, the military industrial complex, and the wrong doings of society at large.
As such we think there's profound benefit which comes from beauty pageants.
My second argument is the idea of discourse.
If you buy anything my opponent tells you about society, about problematic gender norms, about the way that we view women, we need beauty pageants.
It's the most clear way in which we can see the expression of these norms.
Although I do not believe that these are problematic things, or things that can be solved meaningfully, if you buy into this ideology then you must have beauty pageants to highlight and critique the problematic norms of society.
It is a way in which society is distilled in a simple action and it allows individuals to critique the patriarchy in an incredibly effective way.
As such we should not ban beauty pageants.