I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize renewable energy.
Renewable energy is incredibly useful.
It allows individuals to access far more energy at a far lower price, while also not harming the environment.
That is exactly why the free market has been so effective in spreading renewable energy and increasing total innovation.
When government steps in and manipulates the free market, all it does is impose its own artificial values upon the democratic will of the people.
The only true democratic infrastructure and institution in our state is the market.
All individuals can participate, all individuals can articulate themselves.
This is distinct for a representative democracy where particular individuals express their will after being voted into power by individuals who can never understand the wholistic implications of voting in a particular individual.
With this in mind, I have three arguments for why we should not subsidize renewable energy: first on market distortion, second on its effect on jobs, and third how it creates an energy imbalance.
First let's talk about market distortion.
We think that subsidies are simply just a tax on citizens and punishing individuals for not buying a particular good.
All that a subsidy is is essentially taking other people's money in order to buy a good for someone else.
It's like if I wanted to buy some food for myself and what I did is I made it to all other individuals had to first spend a a dollar to guarantee I could actually buy that good.
It makes it so the only people who can actually get the benefit of a subsidy are those purchasing it and all other people are harmed.
This is fundamentally undemocratic.
We believe that we are we force people to pay for goods they do not want simply because we think it is an artificial good which we ought support.
Furthermore, we would say that if people want a particular good, the market will always equilibrate it.
If there's a huge demand they'll be more of a supply guaranteeing that people can actually purchase it.
This is in direct contrast to a subsidy which will always be artificial and distort the equilibrium price decided upon by the market.
My second argument is that this has a bad effect on jobs.
Why is this the case?
It transfers huge amounts of capital towards high skilled jobs.
Unfortunately, many individuals who depend on more dirty industries do not have the sort of capital development because of systemic structures which denied them the sort of development.
Where do we see this?
In coal towns and logging towns we see very little investment into things like education.
Now my opponents might try to solve this by actually increasing the total availability of high skilled labor but it's unclear who will pay for this human development if there are no taxes coming from these industries which currently exists there.
All that this policy does is hurt people who have made it their way of life, that is to say people who have spent their entire life mining coal, spent their entire life working in dirty industries which actually is the fundamental infrastructure of their entire town.
My third argument is about the energy imbalance.
Why do we think this is not actually a good idea?
My opponents suggest that oil companies low profit margins this'll be effective in actually changing the total distribution of goods.
This is fundamentally untrue.
We think that energy companies have some of the highest profit margins around the world.
Oil companies last year posted trillion dollar profits, larger than the GDP of many states.
We think they have money to spare.
Now why is this so problematic?
This means a greater supply doesn't actually imply that there'll be a decrease in oil usage, simply a greater usage of energy all around instead.
We think that oil companies have an artificially high price in the status quo, so the best case scenario of my opponent's case is simply that they lead to the equilibrium price increasing demand but not actually increasing the total amount being produced by the sort of oil companies.
This'll just mean that global warming will not be solved.
I'm is going to run my hairdryer twice as long instead of actually changing my behavior and actually solving for the environmental crisis.
For this reason, we should not subsidize renewable energy.