We should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
Farm subsidies are generally negative.
It depends on taking money from the taxpayer and spreading it out to farmers without due consideration of the market.
Tobacco subsidies are particularly pernicious as tobaccos are harmful to society and yet we charge the taxpayer for it to be grown.
As such, we support the following model.
Than any states that have tobacco subsidies it will immediately be ended and removed.
Any farmers who currently growing tobacco can apply for a grant in that in order to allow them to uproot their tobacco and get other goods growing but otherwise we ought simply let them be and remove the subsidy.
Two arguments, first off on market distortion.
There's no reason why we are charging the taxpayer to allow other individuals to consume tobacco.
Quite simply a subsidy is making it so the cost of a particular good is actualized on the whole of society rather on the rather than on the people buying the good.
This is problematic first off, because it does not allow the simple functions of supply and demand to work.
Subsidies distort the market and rather than the most optimal outcome occurring, what happens is that there's an increased demand as because the price is lower and as such, more people are buying it than they would were they to actually understand the cost of growing and selling tobacco.
We would say that this is inherently inefficient, which means it costs the taxpayer money they ought not spend but we would also like to point out, that tobacco has problematic externalities.
Subsidies are only justifiable when they're there to rectify externalities.
It's okay to subsidize food given that individuals having food has a positive effect on the whole society as they're less likely to have diseases caused by being malnourished and additionally are unlikely to starve which we think is bad for the whole society.
Tobacco is the opposite.
The more people who consume tobacco, the more allocate there'll be smoky areas.
Individuals will suffer from asthma and other public health issues as I'll discuss my next argument.
Quite simply, we ought be taxing each level of tobacco because it is an inherently problematic good.
Additionally, the growing of tobacco has problematic externalities as well.
As it is a fairly resilient plant, so it typically uses a considerable amount of pesticides and other problematic chemicals which can run off into groundwater and harm the local ecosystem.
All of the costs of tobacco ought be actualized upon the consumers and growers of that tobacco and governments have no role in taking money from the taxpayer to fund this.
Now my second argument is the idea of public health.
Very simply, tobacco is awful for public health.
It causes lung cancer.
It causes heart disease.
Very often individuals who consume tobacco cost the states the state huge amounts of money.
In western liberal democracies which have universal health care when people consume tobacco it makes it so the whole society also incurs the costs of their medical bills.
In states like the united states where this isn't actually the case, we would say that first a lot of these harms are occur when these individuals are older so they still charge through medicaid and medicare still costing the taxpayer money, but additionally, many individuals still go to the emergency room due to things like heart attacks and don't have insurance or a way to pay for these bills and so the hospitals incur these costs as well because we think this is bad for public health and the government has a role in helping the public's health in general, it ought be banned but we'd also say that tobacco harms third parties.
Smoking occurs in closed areas, bars and restaurants giving people just the worst day in general but also harming their health but it's incredibly problematic for children who live with smokers who also consume tobacco and generally grow up with asthma or other health problems due to this.
Governments have no role in supporting tobacco and as such, we should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.