I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban hunting.
Hunting is a honored pastime which allows individuals to get outside, have fun, and ultimately be able to build camaraderie at those around them.
Even if my opponent convinces you that that it is inherently unjust to particular animals, we think that human preferences should always actually have preference over those of animals.
Three reasons why.
First, we think this is a massive government overstep.
Now when forming government policy there are a few things to consider.
You have to consider the group it affects, their stake within our government, and whether it is actually moral.
What we mean by this is that the united states would be acting unjustly if it went into random countries and gave mass amounts of money to poor groups in the area for a few reasons.
First, these individuals are foreign citizens so they have other governments which govern them but second, the united states is fundamentally abridging the rights of its own citizens by ignoring them and not giving resources back to the people who gave resources to the government in the first place.
We think that this is similar to animal rights in this case.
Animals do not provide anything materially to our government.
The only way in which most animals actually give to our government is by passive means at which we don't respect in the status quo, or by being hunted and killed.
To that end, if the government were to cater policy to animals based on their own rights, it is fundamentally abridging the rights of other individuals who are the key demographic which the government must cater to.
My second argument is that animals have no rights.
We think that animals that rights inherently stem from government.
There's no way in which rights can be articulated to come from god or come from other actors in a way which is universal.
If we were to respect the christian god as the one who gave us power and life, we would say that we are restricting the rights of jewish people, muslims, hindus, a variety of other religions.
The same could be said of any other god we were to pick.
Additionally, our rights don't come from nature.
As in the state of nature, individuals are brutish and violent towards one another and are unlikely to actually respect rights in the first place.
Rights are the ability to have a contract with government.
To that end, animals have no contract with government, they provided no meaningful resources, and as such, humans should not be concerned with respecting their rights.
Even if they do have rights we think that we should always prefer human preferences over the rights of animals.
As individuals only really have a voice if we respect their preferences.
If individuals cannot articulate themselves, they cannot lobby government for particular ideals, we think that human preferences are fundamentally failing.
As such, government should always respect the preferences of individuals.
Any democratic government attempts to find the will of the people, find our preferences and pass policies as such.
We think that human preferences then are always the goal of government and should always be put in place instead of other abstract ideals.
My third and final argument is that this creates further political push for sustainability.
In the status quo, democrats may support environmental regulation but conservatives usually don't.
However, if all of the animals in the forest are dying out and there's no way individuals can hunt, sustainability actually becomes a more hot button and bipartisan issue.
We see this with trophy hunting.
When there's a white rhino which is acting violently towards a herd, sustainability groups can sell the rights to kill that rhino and get hundreds of thousands of dollars to put towards their own conservation efforts.
We think that that that allowing hunting is the best way to actually make people concerned about sustainability and is far more likely to prevent the deaths and harms to animals which my opponent attempts to avoid.
For this reason, we should not ban hunting.