We should abolish foster care.
Foster care is a system which pays individuals to keep children in their home, even though it is not a loving or honestly a very caring relationship at all.
We think that the vast majority of individuals who want to adopt a child and work to their long-term preservation and welfare will likely just adopt a child.
A system of foster care does little more than pay individuals to provide substandard housing and care for children who are otherwise the most disadvantaged in our society.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that there should be no more pay for foster care homes, that is to say people can adopt children, and we're we'll even let individuals undo their choice if they feel like they are not ready, they can have a temporary period where the child is in the home, but we will not pay them to do this.
Individuals will not be able to turn foster care into a profession, there will simply be homes and adoption agencies and obviously state care.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, we think that foster care largely provides substandard care, particularly when compared against the state wards.
Why is this the case?
First, there's little regulation.
First off, in literature alone, in the way it is written, we think that regulation is fairly sparse and does not actually regulate these individuals to a great degree.
But secondly, we think that foster care homes aren't that common, and many individuals' entire jobs depend on putting kids in foster homes.
The result of this is that they have very little incentive to check for failures on behalf of the foster parent.
The ultimate result is that children are used to get more money, they are used as a way for self enrichment by individuals who could care could not care less how the child is actually raised.
We think that many of these homes are overburdened, and raising children becomes a cost saving operation.
Rather than trying to give them the best care possible, you see the least money you can spend on toiletries, housing, shelter, food, and that will never provide a child the best care possible.
My second argument is about the value of consistent care and a consistent location.
We think that individuals can learn how to cope in a variety of situations.
Even if foster care is a comparable somewhat to state wards, we think that the state can largely regulate their own wards better, but also children can get far more used to these areas as well.
Foster cares usually bump children from home to home, which ultimately makes it so they are are unable to really create a strong community around themselves.
We think this community consists of educational opportunities, friends and other children even in your own housing situation.
The ultimate result is that children never feel comfortable, they develop long-term anxiety, depression as they never have a home which they can identify.
Even a state ward which may be less effective than certain foster homes would be preferable, if the child was able to lay down their roots there.
My third and final argument is about the political effects.
We think that the alternate results of this is that there'll be better regulation and better tracking of the number of children in state wards.
If state wards are ineffective then there'll be greater political efficacy in regulating them and changing them in a meaningful sense.
We think the adoption system is fundamentally broken, we think that there needs to be more money going in, that the foster care system is a way in which children can be put in homes which can never be uniformly critiqued, and as such they are far less likely to draw the political attention necessary to get meaningful change and meaningful empowerment.
As such, we should abolish foster care.