I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban racial profiling.
Although we regret the oppression of people of color throughout history, when there is a clear correlation between the oppression upon individuals and crime, it is essential that police base their action on preventing crime.
We do not believe that police should be used to make a political statement.
Although we agree that people of color, particularly in the united states, have been oppressed throughout history, saying the police should be more lenient on a particular group simply because of past oppression is unlikely to make society better.
Police should base all of their action on preventing and solving crime.
Which means if we can prove that racial profiling makes police even marginally more effective, we should not ban it.
Two arguments for why we should not ban racial profiling.
First off it is effective.
We would not say that any race is inherently predisposed to crime.
Just because you're black you are not more likely to commit a crime.
However, the history of the united states has pushed black people into situations where they must commit crime.
We see people we see that slavery has had historical repercussions which stop people from affording houses or being able to keep jobs.
We see that that forty acres and a mule was only a policy given to white people, that in the nineteen fifties black individuals were pushed into ghettos where they could not get jobs, and weather our food deserts, and although we regret each of these actions, the fact that people of color are far more likely to be in poverty due to this oppression also means I'm far more likely to commit crime.
Honestly people in poverty simply commit more crime because they have to.
But once again it is unclear why police should make their actions political.
We do not believe that police should take inherent stances or take stances that say that a particular group ought not be punished after committing a crime.
This is the role of judges and juries.
Anytime someone steals, anytime someone harms another person, they ought to be caught by police.
This means that people of color who are pushing into poverty as a result of oppression also need to be arrested due to the crimes that they commit.
This means that the united states continued intervention in the middle east, which pushes individuals to be more likely to take actions against the united states, means that police should still arrest people that they suspect might be terrorists.
Because we think that there are indirect correlations due to racial racial situations we believe that police should not be banned from using racial profiling.
We would not accept it as an act of strategy, but it ought not be banned.
My second argument is why a ban will be bad.
First off it'll fundamentally fail.
It is impossible to regulate societal norms or regulate how individuals think.
We saw this in very conservative communities in india where female genital mutilation was banned.
When we ban these sort of things cops simply stopped enforcing these sort of laws and stopped enforcing other laws because they did not believe in the ban as a whole.
We think bans on ideas, bans on ideologies, bans on the ways that people think, will always fail and be unlikely to be regulatable in any meaningful way.
All this does is it pushes it into the shadows.
It that makes it less likely that a cop will say, yes I shot him because he was black or yes I shot him because he wasn't white, but we think that this can be essential for the discourse.
We think that if people express their ideas, express their racist ideas, they can be pushed off the force even if their actions are not inherently banned by the government or we can simply have a discussion about how to reform policing as a whole.
We think that policing is a fundamentally unjust system which probably ought collapse in an in on itself and allowing people to express their own racism in the role of police officers makes this more likely.
Additionally we would say that police will be afraid to take action and we think that even though the system of police is inherently insidious, if they cannot even take action to stop people from committing crimes this will also be very problematic.
We think that because of the way that oppression works, people in poverty typically take action against other people in poverty.
It is unclear why a certain group why the victims should have to internalize those harms and not be protected by police as well.
As such we should not ban racial profiling.