I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban naturopathy.
Although naturopathy is not inherently better than conventional medicine, suggesting that it is so harmful that government has an obligation to ban it is grossly incompetent and largely a terrible abuse of government power.
Because we think that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good and because we think that conventional medicine still has things to learn, we would say that naturopathy is an important item an important tool for individuals to pursue their own health and empowerment.
Given that we do not ban things like certain foods just because we think that people over hype them, we would say you shouldn't ban naturopathy.
I'm first going to start with some brief opposition and then provide three arguments for why naturopathy is actually a good thing.
So my opponent talks at length about why government should ban dangerous things and why they should ban things that are a scam.
First let's address the charges that naturopathy is dangerous.
Naturopathy is an incredibly broad category.
All naturopathy you buy in the store is largely safe.
Obviously if you chug an entire bottle of ginger you might have some uncomfortable stomach pain, some uncomfortable feelings the next day, but gross incompetence in use is not a reason to ban something.
Additionally we would say that no individual item when taken based on its recommended dosage is actually dangerous for individuals.
The vast majority of these items do not have strong effects in terms of allergens or side effects.
Unless someone is explicitly allergic to the item itself, naturopathy shouldn't harm them and if they are explicitly allergic to it that's not grounds to ban it from for everyone else.
Their second claim is that naturopathy is a scam.
I would first say that naturopathy is largely the prelude to conventional medicine.
Things like active ingredients in ginger, in beetroot, are used in conventional medicine but in a much more concentrated form.
Naturopathy offers a much more delicate and easy way for individuals to control their own health and medicine.
To use my opponent's standard, we should ban kale just because it is over hyped, because individuals say it will heal far more ailments than it actually does.
This is clearly absurd and clearly shows why we should not ban things just because they're not as good as the hype makes them seem.
This leads to my first argument about how this is a government overstep.
We think that the government should only ban things when there's a direct and immediate harm to individuals who consume it and a harm that they cannot consent to.
My opponent has not shown that either of these are the case.
When government oversteps its bounds, it first violates personal liberty, but second largely ignores the individual values which construct our individual lives.
We are not collective beings, we are individuals who operate in a social context.
When government steps in and says that they know best for people, that is when individuals suffer in their quality of life.
My second argument is on patient autonomy.
We think that individuals are the once again the best arbiters of their own good.
If someone has had bad reaction with oxycontin the last few times they've taken it, it's fair that they pursue a natural pain killer.
It's impossible for any doctor to understand the wholistic picture compared to the individual particularly in regard to side effects and medication.
My third argument is about how this increases mistrust.
When the government steps in and bans the leading competition to conventional medicine, people's cries of big pharma get louder, more angry.
The total amount of naturopathy increases and the danger of it expands exponentially.
For this reason we should not ban naturopathy.