We should prohibit international adoption international adoption is very regularly powerful individuals adopting children simply for the color of their skin.
It represents a form of oppression and all states where international adoption is common.
Because we think international adoption harms both children and our understanding of recent culture in general we would say that international adoption should be banned in all states where it is prevalent.
This means that the united states would ban individuals from adopting children from abroad while states like russia singapore would prevent children from being adopted by international actors.
Three arguments for why international adoption is a bad idea.
First off it is poorly regulated.
Recognize that adoption agencies are actually for-profit industries.
This means that they have little incentive to check where a child is coming from or where a child is going.
They simply want to move them, their products.
This can have two very problematic manifestations in terms of regulation.
First off children are regularly taken from their parents to be sold on the sort of market.
Indian parents have had their children stolen by human traffickers because a white parent wanted to have a child of another ethnicity.
It is fundamentally unjust and truly the greatest rights violation to make this happen.
We believe that a potential adopter should adopt a child from their own state first if they want to child, but their inability to get a child does not matter or at least does not matter in comparison to the harm caused to parents by a child being taken.
It is truly one of the most unjust and horrific things that could happen to a parent.
Secondly though there's little regulation in terms of checking that if a child goes to the correct place.
While in-state adoption or in-country adoption typically has numerous regulation international adoption does not.
This means that bad parents parents who will abuse their child could adopt more children from abroad with very little regulation simply because of profit seeking entities.
As such we think that this poor regulation harms children and harms adults from the states where these adoptions are occurring.
The states that are typically poorest where there's a reciprocal obligation to actually do right by them given the histories of colonial oppression and the current state of affairs which is largely caused by the actions of capitalist interests.
The second argument though is that the lack of contact is bad for children.
The best kinds of adoptions are adoptions wherein the parent can access the child can have a relationship with the child two reasons why.
First off adoptions that are legitimate typically occur frequently as a result of poverty or poor conditions.
This means that someone unable or unwilling to raise a child because of their financial state gives up their child.
In these situations it is essential that the parents will have some access to their child otherwise they're facing profound harms simply because of their socioeconomic status.
Once again an expression of capitalist power over them.
Additionally though many adoption agencies push people to give up their child due to their financial situation.
The lack of contact with the parent to the child as a result of international adoption harms the parent in a massive way but also harms the upbringing of the child as they aren't should have reflections of themselves and understand where they come from in their lives.
The third argument though that this is an expansion of white savior complex there's no reason gwyneth paltrow needs to adopt another child from abroad simply to make themselves feel better.
We believe that these instances lead to children who are not raised well who are essentially abused wealth does not make a happy household all by itself and when children are simply seen as trophies for individuals to collect it will harm them in the long term.
As such we should prohibit international adoption.