We should ban gratuities.
Gratuities are an outdated system which have political and legal loopholes which ultimately harm all individuals involved in the transaction.
They are an expectation upon individuals to pay more than the advertised price, and they put the livelihood of servers in harm's way by allowing vindictive individuals to refuse to pay what is expected to be the full price when they go out to eat.
Because we think gratuities are outdated, because we think they're not efficacious, we would support the following model: that the government should heavily decrease any incentive to allow gratuities, to tax them massively whenever they are found, and to make sure that employers who in any way regulate around gratuities will be punished.
If someone receives money on the table, nothing will change, but we're going to make it very clear that gratuities are heavily frowned upon in our society.
My first argument is about the effects of gratuities on minimum wage.
Many states have regulations which allow companies restaurants to pay less than the minimum wage if someone is getting gratuities.
This means that the vast majority of the money that we leave on the table is simply another way that an employer can get around the minimum wage laws.
These laws can come in two forms.
The first form is that gratuities can be expected to be the same as someone's wage, which means that if someone's getting the minimum wage and then they get their entire wage paid for by gratuities, the employer doesn't need to pay anything.
The other version of this kind of law is one in which the employer only needs to pay someone about three dollars less than the minimum wage to employ them, and then they get to keep all the gratuities on top of it, such that they might reach minimum wage.
Both of these are fundamentally unjust and allow the employer to take the surplus profit that the server provides, and generally harm everyone involved in the process.
The first way in which the tips are taken out of the payment generally makes it so there's no incentive to serve serve effectively, or to get tips in the first place.
This is incredibly problematic as it can it generally defeats the purpose of gratuities in the first place.
The second version is incredibly problematic because although it maintains this idea that people should continue to work for gratuities, it can leave people making almost no money and starving, even if they work a full-time job.
By outright banning gratuities and stopping all laws based on it, we will make it so individuals are paid more efficaciously and more generously, such that they're getting a truly livable wage.
My second argument is about price distortion.
It is unjust when someone walks into a restaurant and is uncertain about the how much they will need to pay.
Gratuities, both mandatory and not mandatory, are ultimately not reflected in price, and as such individuals cannot predict what they're going to spend until afterwards.
We think that individuals should have the maximum information possible in any market transaction, so decreasing the ability for individuals to determine how much they're going to pay is fundamentally unjust and leads to a less efficient system.
My third argument is about how there's disparate service based on gratuities.
Individuals are inherently prejudiced, and many times they see someone who is dressed more more poorly, they see people of color and assume that they're going to pay less for the tip.
As such, these people get worse service.
This leads to a system which is inherently classist and will always preference the wealthiest people in our society.
It is unjust that when two people who are expecting to pay the same amount go to a restaurant, one person gets better service just because they may look better, or because the servers thinks they might get more of a tip.
Because we think the government has an obligation to prevent this kind of discrimination, we should ban gratuities.