I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit nuclear energy.
Nuclear energy is an incredibly dangerous and inefficient form of technology which will simply usurp and remove other forms of alternative energy rather than removing fossil fuels.
I have three arguments for why we should not further exploit nuclear energy.
First off on how it is incredibly dangerous second, on how it will replace better forms of energy and third, on how it will decrease our total energy security.
But first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent's second argument was about how nuclear energy is infinitely renewable.
This is simply not true.
There's a limited amount of uranium on our planet.
Even if you make converted reactors which allow you to process plutonium, there's also a limited amount of that and they are being used for other purposes as well.
As such, we believe that it will not actually be infinite if we were to implement nuclear energy and as such, it is simply another form of non-renewable energy.
That leads me to my first argument on how nuclear energy is incredibly dangerous.
We've all heard of the explosions and catastrophes which occurred at these sort of plants whether it's three mile island, whether it's chernobyl, or whether it is natural disaster caused issues such as fukushima.
Each of these caused massive loss of life and the total destruction of certain areas which were formerly hospitable and economically efficient.
By having more nuclear energy, we increase the total incidents of these sort of incidents.
Say if you were to build these kind of reactors in california or oregon you would see that the earthquakes could shatter them and destroy whole areas.
If you were to build them in florida, new orleans, flooding and hurricanes could destroy them there.
Simply put, because natural disasters occur everywhere and are truly unpredictable, nuclear energy puts massive swaths of the population at risk.
Additionally, we believe that nuclear energy is inefficient due to the waste that it creates.
There's nowhere to put nuclear waste.
We tried to put it in yucca mountain and ended up seeping into local groundwater destroying local crops and generally causing massive amounts of cancer and death.
Nuclear waste cannot be safely contained in any currently known containers.
After a decade in a in the containers we currently use, the containers break down and start to leak.
As such, if it becomes incredibly common and we start to use nuclear energy with startling frequency, what we will see is a world where there's huge amounts of nuclear waste which causes huge amounts of deaths.
My second argument is about how this will replace better options for energy rather than fossil fuels.
Why are fossil fuels here to stay?
First, they're incredibly efficient.
Even though they cause vast amounts environmental damage, individuals do not care although they might care on a macro level when deciding between hurting the environment as an individual or saving the environment as an individual, understand that neither choice will be meaningful as an individual.
Individuals will choose the cheaper option every time.
Furthermore, these fossil fuel industries have huge amounts of lobbying power which will always protect them through subsidies and tax cuts for their corporation allowing them to stay in power and remain the cheapest option.
As such, nuclear power is likely to replace things like solar, wind, and hydroelectric power which although incredibly efficient it is very costly to create particularly with the upfront capital that it costs and as such, all it will do is remove other options for alternative energy.
My third argument is about energy security because this is just another form of energy which requires imports and requires us to be dependent on another state.
There are no longer huge uranium reserves in the united states.
As such, were we to implement this, it is incredibly unlikely that we'd be able to fund it ourselves.
We'd be dependent on other states sometimes not our allies to give us this kind of energy reducing our geopolitical hegemony and making it far more likely that oppressive states could take power with incredibly little oversight by the international community.
For this reason, we should not further exploit nuclear energy.