We should end athletic scholarships.
Athletic scholarships represent a transfer of cash from universities in exchange the bodies of young men and women who attend these universities.
They attend these colleges with the dream of getting a better education and accessing further prosperity.
However, they are pushed into athletics, which they generally do not need, and which costs them both in terms of their body and in terms of their ability to study.
Because we think athletic scholarships are caustic, we would say that we would prefer a world without athletic scholarships.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First, that it is a caustic choice.
That individuals cannot meaningfully consent to this and generally will lose things that they do not want to lose and can only be lost through individual consent.
And second, that it represents a waste of resources from the school and the taxpayer.
First off on choice.
Individuals are pushed to pursue college through their culture, family, and society overall.
The american dream includes that individuals go to college, get a high paying job, and generally are able to support their family as a whole.
Individuals are pushed by their family to go to college.
Many people who do not attend college are seen as a failure in the eyes of their family.
Additionally though, individuals are misguided when they believe that college, simply attending college, will lead to a higher paying job in the future.
Athletic scholarships are then taken by individuals because they are pushed by the society.
This means they do not meaningfully consent to the harms of athletic scholarships which include loss of brain cells, loss of one's body, and a distraction from studying.
Many individuals who would who take part in sports as a, varsity sports particularly, have major long term harms due to things like concussions.
Many football players in their forties and fifties are essentially in a vegetative state because of the number of concussions they've had.
If not in a vegetative state, then they have constant headaches, get frequent mood swings, are generally not equipped to deal with the real world.
Additionally though, college athletes regularly injure and their shins, knees, and hips in ways that are totally irreplaceable and irreversible.
This means that they cannot become professional athletes in the long term due to poor safety regulation in college.
Additionally though, athletic scholarships distract individuals from study.
Individuals must keep up with their sports team, must attend every single practice, or they risk losing their scholarship.
This means they can't effectively educate themselves or attend classes which is the purpose of university.
This means that they pursue something that is unlikely to pay off, they're unlikely to reach a major league sport or get a high paying job due to these athletic scholarships while paying a horrible price.
The second argument is that this is a waste of resources.
Scholarships come from three places: either higher tuition, the taxpayer in the case of public schools, or they trade off with other resources such as mental health or better educational resources at universities.
Any of these pushes other students out of the university or gives them worse education.
Additionally though, it is largely the cause of further spending as well.
The university of oregon, despite being a public school, has opened up a one hundred million dollar sports center because of the quality of its athletes.
Which were in turn attracted through athletic scholarship.
This leads to a pervasive cycle which short changes the rest of the university and harms education as a whole.
For this reason we oppose athletic scholarships.