I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end water fluoridation.
There are few policies as effective, important, and popular as water fluoridation.
It improves the public's health, makes them happier individuals, and has largely been met with a massive amount of support.
Ending water fluoridation would not only decrease the health of the whole of society, but also classistly target certain individuals who could not otherwise afford effective dental care.
With that mind, it is incredibly clear that we should not end water fluoridation.
I have two arguments in today's debate, first on health and second on the cost saving options involved in water fluoridation.
First like to do some extraneous rebuttal.
My first the first argument my opponent provides is regarding government legitimacy.
It rests on the assumption that fluoride is an unpopular policy in many states.
I have two responses.
First, water fluoridation is incredibly popular.
This is demonstrated a few ways.
First, the vast majority of cities and states have adopted water fluoridation.
Second, senators and politicians who have passed water fluoridation have received increased support going forward.
And thirdly, we see that water fluoridation has generally increased the total savings of states which have adopted it, a action which is inherently popular among citizens.
My second response to my opponent's claim is that the opposite of ending water fluoridation is not forcing water fluoridation on individuals who do not want it.
My hometown of portland, oregon has not voted in favor of water fluoridation however if my opponents policy were to fail portland would not be forced to fluoridate it's water.
However whereas policy to pass neighboring cities like seattle and san francisco who voted resoundingly in favor of fluoridization would lose this sort of tool.
As such the only anti-democratic policies being adopted are those proposed by my opponent.
With that mind I'd like to jump to my arguments.
First off, on health.
My opponent is right that most for most people water fluoridation is not a matter of life or death.
However, it has been relied upon as an essential tool for oral health for many individuals.
It improves the quality of their teeth and their gum health as well.
Unfortunately, removing water fluoridation would put many people at risk as they have adapted and otherwise become used to water fluoridation ensuring that they don't have to go to the doctor or dentist as often.
Additionally, there's a class based element as wealthy people who can afford highly fluoridated toothpaste, fluoridated mouthwash, and frequent doctors visits probably don't need it but people in poverty particularly the homeless who cannot afford these sort of amenities require water fluoridation to guarantee that their teeth do not rot out of their heads.
We think a basic standard of public health is required for any government to retain its legitimacy and as such it must support water fluoridation particularly when the alternative would be leaving people in poverty to face incredibly harmful health outcomes.
The second argument is about saving costs.
Water fluoridation is used as an alternative to currently existing water cleaning chemicals.
As such its usage is revenue neutral in terms of just putting it in the water.
Additionally it proves public health any meaningful way.
First it saves huge amounts of money on dental insurance and dentist visits which would otherwise harm many individuals, but secondly because infections in your mouth can poison your bloodstream and reach your brain to and actually kill you, it reduces total visits to the ER and doctors writ large.
Decreasing insurance and healthcare costs, which would otherwise be socialized in many states.
As such we should not end water fluoridation.