We should abandon the insanity plea.
The insanity plea stemmed from a place where individuals cannot be punished if they do not understand the law.
This standard really isn't applied anywhere else.
I can't say I didn't understand a speed limit exists and get out of a ticket.
To that end, we think that individuals who cannot conceptualize their actions get still violate the law, require some sort of punishment, and if not a punishment, they require some way of keeping them away from society to prevent violence.
In the modern day, where institutions of mental health have largely been undermined and eradicated, we think that the insanity plea is no longer a useful tool.
People will go to prison either way, but the insanity plea just lets people get out sooner.
To this end, we would propose the following model: that states that have the insanity plea no longer allow it.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on the purpose of jail.
The first purpose of jail is quite simply to prevent violence.
This can be through deterrence or this can be to keeping people away from society.
The insanity plea implicitly means that individuals do not understand their actions.
This means that, moving forward, they're unlikely to understand the court case, they're unlikely to understand the gravity of what they did.
This means that recidivism is incredibly likely.
Because we think that violent crimes must be prevented and when crimes are committed without the law being enforced the entire state is undermined, we must get rid of the insanity plea to punish the individuals who violate those tenets which we deem important to our society.
We would say this if someone murders someone and can't understand that is bad, they will murder again.
They must be kept in jail to prevent that from happening.
But secondly, we think the purpose of jail is to give some sort of justice to the victims.
It doesn't matter if the person who stabbed my brother is insane or not.
In either case, they're likely to be insane but in one case, we might let them free simply due to some sort of technicality or official designation of their insanity.
We think that this doesn't make any difference to the victim.
They require some sort of recourse and some sort of retribution to feel whole again.
This is, first, because if they don't see the state backing them up, they're unlikely to feel comfortable in the state, whether it is going to the police or simply trusting in the state to fulfill their will.
But secondly, we think that individuals are far more likely to conduct vigilante justice if the state does not complete its obligations.
This is the most violent form of justice, where there's no oversight at all.
My second argument is that the insanity plea is easily abusable.
We think that individuals can pretend to be insane and convince a jury to give them a lighter punishment.
We also think that it is abusable based on the amount of money you have.
If you're incredibly wealthy, it's easy to hire experts who will claim that you're insane and to hire a good lawyer to simply spew out a variety of medical terms which are above the heads of the jury in order to get the insanity plea.
On the other side of the coin, people with meaningful mental illnesses, who are poor, are unlikely to have this sort of defense because a public defender cannot do adequate research into the extent of these sort of mental illnesses.
To this end, the insanity plea will only help those who do not need it.
For this reason, we should abandon the insanity plea.