We should disband unesco.
Now unesco is fundamentally inefficient and generally just unsuccessful organization within the UN.
It largely just labels cultural and scientifically important monuments for protection but there's only really two possibilities when it does this: either a, these areas were already going to be protected by the governments within them as such, the UN coming in, taking control, and generally saying that this is an important site that can have no development whatsoever, does very little except waste money that could otherwise be spent to important ends.
The alternative is that the government and the people within the state want to do something with that monument.
Maybe the monument is seen as an affront to the government.
Maybe it's seen as culturally insensitive and as such, the UN coming in and labeling it as important violates sovereignty.
With this in mind, we think that there is incredibly little use to continuing the UN's organization known as the unesco and as such, we support the following model: that the UN should immediately ban this this organization, get rid of it outright and any areas currently labeled as culturally significant sites will be given back to the governments which claim them and will generally there'll generally be a process of about six months where ownership over these areas is given back to the governments.
Three arguments why this is a good idea: first, on why this organization violates sovereignty.
Sovereignty stems from the idea that individuals have a right to self determination.
That individuals within the state ought not cede power to an inter-governmental super-government which can otherwise extract resources or otherwise use its will to do whatever it wants within the international community.
We believe that the only way in which states can have power in a system like the UN, is if we guarantee some amount of sovereignty.
It is the only way in which these states can organize themselves such that they have an individual voice and can articulate their this voice in the marketplace of ideas.
When this organization goes into the state and takes particular areas without the consent of that state, it does little more than violate the right to self determination of the people there in.
As such, we must necessarily disband this organization as it goes against the very tenets which guarantee the continuation of the UN which we believe has a much more important mission than unesco does.
My second argument is about the unnecessary controversy inherent to this organization.
Every time it acts it is acting either inefficiently, as I said before, essentially acting redundantly or it is making people unhappy.
It is impossible to say that there is an objective truth that will guide this organizations' actions and ensure that no individuals are unhappy.
As such, there will inevitably be controversy that spills over to the UN.
Unfortunately, this label other actions by the UN as inherently corrupt or inherently tone-deaf even when they're not.
We think that things like the universal declaration on the rights of the child or the universal declaration on the rights of women ought be respected as inherently universal but when the UN goes in and subsidizes certain organizations which end up being hate groups or takes land from two states that are currently waging war over it and says that no one's allowed to have it it's seen as little more than a bully which deserves no rights, no respect, and is not in any way culturally sensitive.
My third argument is that there is no budget to continue its operations.
Seeing as the US has left unesco, the only thing that it is able to do is make proclamations with no power behind it.
We think it will inevitably fall apart and it is much better to have a safe, easy, and efficient transition of power now rather than it collapsing in six to twelve months which will happen if we do not disband it in the status quo.
For this reason, we should disband unesco.