I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should fight gender inequality.
Gender inequality is not a fruitful thing for us to fight because it wastes time which could otherwise be used to increase the well being of all individuals.
We believe that if we increase the livelihood of every single person by ten percent, that is better than increasing the position of women by say five percent.
So if we can prove that fighting gender inequality gets less total efficiency for women than simply fighting for the total improvement of all of humanity then we believe that gender inequality is not an efficient goal.
I'm going to explain this a little more in my first argument which discusses how we can best improve society.
The basic theory of things like economics is that if you can make more money from one thing rather than another, you ought do the thing that provides you more money.
This is the idea of opportunity cost.
We believe that investing in or fighting gender inequality will actually reduce the total efficiency of society because the time and money spent fighting for these sort of things.
Many individuals who fight for gender inequality are incredibly intelligent.
They understand a lot about how the world works and have published a variety of articles about how to best to manage individuals.
We believe that if we were to turn their talents towards the economy, turn their talents towards innovation in terms of science and technology, they would be far more likely to produce technologies that individuals do not currently see.
As such, we believe that rather than reducing the position of men to help women or simply just pushing women up and without affecting men at all, if we improve the well being of all individuals by changing their use of labor and changing their use of skill than what we will do is create a better society.
My opponent needs to prove why the comparative between the genders is inherently problematic if we are instead improve the lot of all individuals.
This is the general theory of the veil of ignorance as well.
So if rawls political theory which is to say you can only help the best off in society if you help the worst off in society at the same time, we believe that gender inequality can be conceptualized in the same lens.
My second argument is about cultural relativism.
Fighting gender inequality requires individuals to step in and tell other economies, tell other cultures that they are doing things incorrectly.
We believe that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good and the best have the best understanding of their own domestic cultural situation.
If individuals step in as western actors an attempt to fight inequality without the consent of individuals within the state so their pushing their own antagonistic ideas.
This is problematic for a few reasons.
First, we think that inequality and social goods are always subjective.
That is to say if individuals are inherently railroaded out of birth, if they are inherently have a path that they take because of that society but they live better because of it, it is not our place to tell them they are doing it incorrectly.
Secondly though, we think that by stepping in and pushing a western ideology after creating colonialist tendencies and harming individuals in the past, what we will generally do is reduce their trust in the west and reduce our trust in progressive ideology writ large.
If we want to have the best situation possible we must allow the situation to resolve itself naturally rather than pushing for gender equality through artificial or otherwise forced means.
For this reason, we should not fight for gender inequality.