I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end mandatory retirement.
As a brief overview I want to discuss what this motion actually does.
There are no laws currently on the books in the united states or in any other western liberal democracy which requires people to lose their job at a certain age.
What this motion does is it makes it so businesses lose the ability to fire people due to their age.
It restricts the freedoms of these businesses, of these business owners, to conduct their business in the most efficient way possible and as such cannot be supported.
Two arguments.
First is youth employment.
In the status quo there's a massive amount of youth unemployment in the united states and other western liberal democracies.
This is because they have less experience than their elderly peers.
This is this is because they have less money to move around and find the best job possible.
Overall youth employment is massively lower than it should be.
This is incredibly problematic.
First off because young people don't have the money to support themselves.
This means that they starve, they become homeless, they turn to crime, or other ways to get income which is incredibly problematic.
This reduces overall economic efficiency while also being inhumane to young people and harming old people through the increasing crime.
We think that elderly individuals have considerably more opportunity to get money and for the most part have enough money to retire at a certain age.
It is essential that companies can decrease the size of their elderly workforce to allow room for young employees to take these spots.
Particularly as medicine gets better and life life expectancy is getting longer, the inability to have mandatory retirement at a certain age makes it so young people cannot find jobs efficiently which is incredibly problematic.
The elderly can be supported through social programs and through their own savings.
This allows the dependent population to maintain a relatively stable rate.
However if you increase the the size of the dependent population at the younger side of the spectrum, what happens is that first these people get less training overall which is worse for the economy the long term, secondly everything I discussed about crime, and thirdly we are its far more difficult to predict and conceptualize the size of the dependent population.
As the elderly gradually retire, it's easy to predict this and make social programs to protect them.
As the young individuals try to find jobs, it's incredibly difficult to predict how many people will be unemployed due to these sort of programs.
Any sort of policy which increases youth unemployment cannot be adopted and as such we oppose retirement we oppose ending mandatory retirement.
For the second argument is about government paternalism.
We believe that the market is the best arbiter of the good.
Each company understands their own situations, has the best experience to understand the economic situation they're in, and as such should be able to have absolute control over their own economy.
My or excuse me their own funding.
My opponent suggests that this is an arbitrary restriction but we believe that this is not the case.
Elderly individuals typically have antiquated ideas, are use antiquated technology, are less efficient overall.
We believe that a company policy which phases out elderly employees allows them to be the most efficient possible.
We think that government stepping in and reducing the freedom of these corporations is incredibly problematic.
The ability to reduce the size of the elderly population within a company is also the ability to ensure a long term longevity.
We think that training a young workforce allows companies to maintain their solvency far into the future while depending on elderly individuals means that they could very well lose a large portion of the workforce at any given time.
As such we don't think this is an arbitrary restriction so much of tim's arguments fall through.
As such, I oppose ending mandatory retirement.