We should end development aid.
Development aid is largely a bandaid which ultimately increases the amount of corruption and the reliance on this sort of money in the states that receive it.
Because we think that development aid is a toxic pill, is a tool that will ultimately destroy the countries where it is active, we would propose the following model: that the united states should immediately end its policy of paying particular states development aid.
We think that other kinds of aid may still be allowed.
We think that immediate emergency support things, like support after natural disasters, will be very allowed, however, we think long-term development aid which goes with these kinds of projects, such as infrastructure, must be ended immediately.
Three arguments for why: first, on government obligation.
Here, I want to talk about the obligations of the united states.
We must understand states as somewhat egoist.
They are, first and foremost, concerned with the preservation of themselves and the preservation of those who they control and belong to.
There're the few reasons for this.
First, there is the obligation that comes from the money that goes in.
There's a reciprocal obligation for states to pay back the money and the efforts of individuals who paid them money in the first place.
Second, though, we think that there's an obligation for states to protect their own citizens because no one else really will.
Particularly for large states like the united states, they're not going to receive development aid.
They're not going to receive the sort of support, except for immediately immediate support in terms of natural disasters, but we think that there are huge numbers of problems in the united states, like homeless individuals, mental illness, private prisons, that must be solved first before we have this sort of development aid.
My second argument is about corruption.
Development aid largely funds corruptions in corruption-developing states.
When oligarchs when politicians have the ability to skim millions of dollars off the top of aid projects, they will do so.
When there's little accountability and when they have a monopoly on force, there's no reason not to.
As such, development aid continues to bring the most corrupt individuals into office and ultimately diminishes the political power of the recipient countries.
Finally, we think that development aid creates reliance.
Development aid destroys local construction companies.
It destroys companies that pay for education and agriculture.
When we flood the market with free products, there's no way that local industries can compete.
When local industries can't compete, human capital can't develop, physical capital can't develop and, ultimately, we see the countries that receive development aid diminish as time goes on.
What we would ultimately like to have happen is that the countries that receive development aid catch up to the united states eventually, but we see that as a natural process as new technological developments always spill over.
There's no way to protect it forever and, as such, a country that continuously develops its capital will ultimately reach the united states' level of prosperity given enough time.
Development aid stunts this and ultimately forces these countries to remain poor forever.
For this reason, we should end development aid.