We should end mandatory retirement.
Mandatory retirement is an archaic and unacceptable use of government power and private power against individuals who have not consented to the harms against them.
When individuals age it typically means they're less efficient.
However, it is unacceptable to force them out of positions that they need to put food on the table and shelter over their heads.
Furthermore, much of our mandatory retirement laws and requirements are based of a misconception and an archaic understanding of how aging works.
Because we believe that individuals, particularly those outside of the manufacturing sector, are actually able to work far above current mandatory retirement ages we believe we should end it out right.
My first argument is how mandatory retirement is unjust and my second argument is how mandatory retirement is inefficient.
So first off on how is unjust.
We believe that mandatory retirement is fundamentally arbitrary.
Individuals did not consent to their age.
Furthermore, age is not necessarily a reflection of their own skill or capacity in a private sense or in an efficiency sense either.
We believe that this kind of discrimination is at face inherently based on prejudice against individuals who are older.
Although this is not quite as pernicious as sex, race or class based discrimination, discrimination in any form must be fought wherever it is found.
We believe government has the obligation then to step in.
Why is this the case?
First because government guarantees individuals rights before the law.
It further guarantees individuals equal rights.
That is to say no matter what your circumstances you ought be necessarily protected against undue abuses.
Secondly though we think government has the obligation to step in because it is the only individual the only organization which can check against the power of large private corporations.
Regardless of what private citizens do, private corporations will do whatever improve their bottom line, or whatever they think improves their bottom line, even it's if it's based on misconceptions.
We believe that government must then step in to actually stop them from abusing their own employees and those who would otherwise work for that company.
Keep in mind that we are fully accepting of policies which ends, which requires retirement or otherwise ends employment if a employee is unable to fulfill the capacity within their jobs.
That is to say if I can no longer work my job and it is because of my age I should not be employed.
However, forcing someone to retire simply because of their age, even if they can continue to work, is fundamentally unjust.
My second argument is regarding efficiency.
Why do we think mandatory retirement is inefficient?
It is largely based on laws that are far far outdated.
In the past we were unable to effectively measure the metrics in which individuals created and utilized their own time and work.
In the status quo we have computers, we have technology which allow us to record the total productivity of employees.
This means that rather than having a blanket policy in which we fire people across the board, we can continue to allow them to work into old age until they are no longer efficient.
This inherently means that older employees, who have trained in skills that other individuals are not used to, who have more far more experience than much of the co workers, and who can otherwise contribute to their work space, can continue to work.
We would further say that ending mandatory retirement is efficient because many individuals at old age need to work longer than they actually have before mandatory retirement.
Unfortunately most americans do not have enough money to retire.
This is because they are forced to spend money on repeating goods, they're forced to spend money on insurance, which necessarily means they don't have enough money to save.
Allowing them to continue to work means that we spend less on welfare for homeless elderly and spend less on non government organizations which would attempt to feed them.
As such we should and mandatory retirement.