We should fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
Nuclear weapons are an incredible danger to all of humanity.
It's incredibly irresponsible that we allow any government, any head of state to control so much firepower.
So many weapons that could ultimately wipe out the entire human race that at any given time we are unable to track the totality of this power.
Simply put, we don't know how many nukes are in the world.
We do not know where they are all are.
We do not know if which foreign powers exactly have them.
Of course, we understand that there are seven countries on earth which have confirmed nuclear weapons but the number of gravity bombs around the world is completely unknown in the status quo.
The fact that we have gotten this far means that drastic action must be taken.
With that in mind, I would propose the following model: that the united nations and each nation there in fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
All countries which currently have nukes will systematically identify where they are, disassemble them, and put the fissile material where it can do no further harm whether that's converting it in a plutonium reactor which are uncommon or simply putting it into a facility, putting it into a bunker deep underground to ensure that no individuals can access it.
I have three arguments for why the abolition of nukes will be good for all of mankind first, imperialism.
In the status quo large states with nukes are able to assert their will over their neighbors.
We think that this is incredibly problematic.
When you hold the keys to existential destruction against those around you you ultimately have total power over their politics, over their internal workings and can consistently threaten them such that they have no real sovereignty.
We think that large states such as the united states do this all the time but we also see states like pakistan and india also use their nuclear threat against their neighbors such that individuals have considerably less liberty anytime india attempts to negotiate with them.
Any negotiation is ultimately turned into a threat, ultimately turned into the risk of nuclear war and as such, we think that there's a true disbalance of power which must be solved.
My second argument is about nuclear annihilation.
Quite simply the more nukes on earth, the greater danger we are in for total nuclear annihilation.
Why is this the case?
Few reasons why: first, we think that if anyone launches a nuke whether that's on purpose or accidental the number of nukes around the world means that the retaliatory response and the response of other states pulled in due to treaty obligations or simply due to their will to harm another country, means that all of humanity will be wiped out if there's a single rogue actor.
But it doesn't just need to be rogue nuclear generals who take this action.
If you misidentify a bird as a rocket, if you misidentify a plane as an incoming nuclear strike, that could cause the total annihilation of the earth.
This is simply a matter of time until we are all destroyed due to these weapons.
If we do not act now this will be the inevitable fate of all of humanity.
My third and final argument is about nuclear leaks.
We've yet to invent any sort of container which can totally prevent against nuclear leaks.
We saw this in yucca mountain in the united states.
We put a massive amount of nuclear waste there and it has destroyed the containers, leaked into the groundwater, earthquakes have destroyed this contains as well and also made it a highly radioactive area.
These nukes will slowly degrade and slowly leak their nuclear content into the area around them causing cancer and a huge amount of death.
To save both local individuals and the world as a whole, we must abolish nuclear weapons.