We should abolish the two party system.
In the status quo americans have incredibly limited choices.
When they go to the polling office, they are not voting based on the candidate they're voting based on the letter next to the name.
This is incredibly problematic and as such we would support the following model: that the united states begin to subsidize the largest parties, the largest five parties to a much greater degree and decrease the bar for a party to get federal funding by a massive amount.
We would like to see at least five parties competing for spots in congress, and in local spots as well.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first on citizen choice.
In the status quo we see individuals voting on problematic ideas.
Instead of voting by researching the candidate and determining what is best, they vote based on their own personal identities to democrat or republican.
This is incredibly problematic as local areas might not have the best politician, but they might win simply because they're a democrat or republican will always vote on the party line.
This means that democracy is not being fulfilled.
This means that our understanding of the good is not being applied to our political system, as people can win with incredibly little opposition simply due to the party they belong to.
The second way in which citizens choices limited in the status quo is because in this, in a variety of cases individuals only have two options.
If my choice is between a big corporate democrat or a big corporate republican, although they might differ on social issues, I'm ultimately going to get a very similar policy outcome either way.
By having a variety of parties we allow individuals to take a variety of positions.
If I don't want to vote for a big party candidate, a party can arise which generally does not support big business, or does not support problematic an oppressive systems of power in our country.
This will increase citizen choice and allow them to better articulate themselves in the marketplace of ideas.
My second argument is about politician choice.
Because in the status quo politicians do not have options for when and where to vote effectively.
Both parties have incredibly stupid ideas which they propose.
Unfortunately individuals are required to vote on the party line or lose all power which they at one time had.
By having a variety of parties if someone wants to vote against their party or vote against the party line they both are less likely to be punished, as that person can move to a different party and as such limit your own party's power, but secondly if they are being punished, can simply follow through with their threat.
Move to a different party, start a different party, and generally be reelected on a different platform because they were at the time honest in their campaign.
By increasing politician choice we inherently increase citizen choice as well and have a better system of policies.
Because individuals are far far more likely to adopt the policies which are best for their area rather than just best for their party, we will generally see individuals wills represented to a far greater degree than in the status quo.
My third argument is about cooperation.
In the status quo there's no incentive for the two parties to cooperate.
That's because there's a zero sum game in our political system.
Every republican who gets a seat is a democrat who lost a seat.
With a system of multiple parties coalition building is first a requirement to pass any policies, and because passing policies that the best way to get reelected, will always occur.
But secondly, cooperation is no longer zero sum.
If I cooperate with someone who agrees with my ideology in more regards than another party, their far more likely to win out against people from other parties they disagree with.
This is important as it allows politicians to cooperate with one another, have cohesive nuanced policy positions which represent the will of the vast majority of americans, rather than simply a single group who had been put in power for a considerable amount of time simply because of their historical position.
For this reason that we should abolish the two party system.