We should ban targeted killings.
Targeted killings are a fundamentally unjust form of foreign policy.
We think that states, when they employ targeted killings, are far less likely to have meaningful accountability, but they also sacrifice efficacy and, ultimately, increase the total incidence of violence.
For western states, particularly those which use drones and other forms of targeted killing, it is their obligation to decrease the total incidence of violence throughout the world.
Throughout the cold war and going back through colonialization, many regional tensions were flamed due to the acts of western states.
If we continue to allow targeted killings and continue the proliferation of violence, we are truly doing a disservice to the world.
To that end, we would say that the united states should stop using targeted killings.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on accountability.
The only way in which we can have an effective government and effective military is if we understand what they're doing.
An organization which is not being observed will always operate in a way that is preferential to themselves.
The military is fundamentally steeped in the propaganda of american exceptionalism and the idea that violence is a solution to many of life's problems.
Without meaningful accountability, we think that the military will always advocate for violent solutions, even when it's not necessary.
Without effective accountability, the military will take this easy way out.
They will take the drone strikes to destroy small villages simply because it's seen as a less wasteful use of resources than sending in operatives to determine what's actually happening there.
We have the technology now to ensure that we do not kill civilians, and yet we continue to use killings which ultimately destroy the homes of civilians and cause incredible amounts of violence.
This brings me to my second argument: radicalization.
When individuals do not feel comfortable in their home, when leaving their house increases their probability of dying by an incredible amount due to a drone strike, they suffer from a few things.
First is just PTSD.
We think this is truly unjust to subject civilian populations to trauma-based illnesses due to the fact that we want to kill a few insurgents.
But secondly, we think that when individuals see the united states as raiding hellfire down upon them, that's when they really hate the west.
That's when they take up a gun, take up a bomb, and want to destroy the west in any way they can.
Even if it's not due to the abstract actions of the west, when we bomb particular actors, they have siblings.
They have people around them.
They, at that moment, were not a present threat, however, we killed them anyways.
This is how you radicalize an entire family and a community around an individual martyr.
If we want to truly fight terrorism, we must abandon targeted killings, because it is seen by the individuals around the target as truly unjustified.
This brings me to my third argument: increased violence.
When you are holding a joystick, looking at dots on the other side of a screen, it is incredibly easy to pull the trigger.
When you do not have an obligation to meet the people in a community, it is incredibly easy to kill them.
When every target is seen as the next potential osama bin laden, as a violent actor who must be put down, individuals will kill more often.
We think that soldiers, largely, with hearts and mind directives, are less likely to pull the trigger on civilians and less likely to pull the trigger overall.
By decreasing the total amount of violence and by creating a repertoire with the communities you are working in, we are far more likely to actually win the war on terror and improve our world.
For this reason, we should ban targeted killings.