I stand in firm opposition to the motion the use of AI should be abandoned.
Before I get on to my substantive material, I'd first like to give an overview about how my opponent fundamentally misunderstands how artificial intelligence works before moving on to some brief rebuttal.
So how does AI really work?
Because it's not a miracle form of technology that can truly think like a human.
Convex optimization, deep learning largely depends on trying the same thing over and over again with a stated goal in mind that is to say, if your goal was to reduce the number of mismade products on a manufacturing line a huge number of artificial intelligence programs would be tried and the one that was the most successful would be brought to the forefront, optimized a bit more and then tried thousands of more times.
This means that when they talk about things like AI that builds other AI or AI which is incredibly harmful to the human race because it evolves in ways we cannot predict, this is fundamentally impossible.
If a goal cannot clearly be stated then it cannot be optimized for artificial intelligence.
This means that telling a robot to build more robots of a variety of types is simply impossible.
Secondly, unless we tell a robot to horrific things, it's never going to adopt violent tendencies or control our minds.
There it would involve a massive amount of research and development that simply will not be put towards truly evil outcomes because they're not profitable and they'll largely hurt the people who research them themselves.
With that, I'd like to do some brief rebuttal.
My opponents primary argument is that artificial intelligence will disrupt the economy and consolidate power on the richest individuals.
Three responses: first, we think that all innovation loses jobs.
When the cotton gin was created it substantially decreased the need for a particular time types of labor on the cotton manufacturing line.
However, we just saw the transfer of labor from one profession to another.
A good way to think of AI is as though we are exporting labor to the land of artificial intelligence.
Whenever we lose labor from the united states, we can still bounce back even when we outsource or offshore.
We can still transfer labor.
There's no reason why artificial intelligence will destroy this capacity for us to do this.
But secondly, it's not going to be a sudden shift.
So this will actually be less problematic than offshoring because we don't think that artificial intelligence will occur all of a sudden and suddenly just make thousands of people lose their jobs like offshoring might.
For artificial intelligence it's going to be less efficient at the beginning and grow more efficient over time.
This means that the that some individuals will lose their job over time to AI and more will lose their jobs over the long term.
However, it's unlikely that they'll ever put someone out in the street unless they're unwilling to work for lower wages and unwilling to change professions in the long term.
We think that neither of these things are true of any individual worker and as such, we don't think there are many harms.
Finally, we think that regulation solves for this disruption in the economy such that we can increase unemployment benefits, increase the protections towards labor as such that AI won't destroy the economy.
With that I have three arguments: first on efficiency.
More products simply means cheaper products.
My opponent cold conceded that artificial intelligence is faster than humans in the vast majority of circumstances will only adopt be adopted when more efficient than our current standard way of producing things.
As such, it reduces the price of all goods in which it is used.
Increasing costs or decreasing costs or any of that we see it as generally the same as increasing or decreasing wages.
This is effectively increasing the pay of all people as AI becomes more efficient.
Secondly, AI is more safe.
We think that it can be used to check things like safety standards to a far better degree than humans who can fall asleep or slack off.
Third and finally, we think that AI can uncover new forms of knowledge that are simply inaccessible to humans.
When google's go robot played go for the first time, it made moves that no human had ever done before.
We can use AI to learn things that humans can never learn and as such, the use of it should not be abandoned.
Thank you.