I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase environmental protection.
If there were a way to magically fiat that the environment would improve, that we could somehow undo hundreds of years of human abuse upon the environment, I'd be all for it.
However, any attempts at environmental protection, at this point, simply will not work and will devastate the economy.
Although it may be a noble pursuit, environmental protection is simply untenable in the modern day.
Because of its inability to be successful, any attempts at further environmental protection will do little more than harm the people who need our help the most, the most vulnerable parts of our community, and those who simply cannot afford to put money towards environmental protection and other frivolous causes.
With that in mind, I have three arguments: first is democracy.
Environmental protection simply is not that popular, as evidenced by the fact that our current president is an active climate change denier.
He outright states that global warming is a myth, that it simply does not exist.
He invites it during winter, misunderstanding that weather is simply a symptom of the current weather conditions and that global warming actually refers to extreme weather rather than a overall warming every single day of the year.
Yes, the total temperature is increasing, however, we also see worse winters and, overall, just worse weather in general.
With that mind, it's incredibly clear the average american simply does not care about global warming and does not care about environmental protection.
The government has an obligation to do things that the people want.
It's impossible to garner or understand a true general good that exists in the world.
There's nothing that we can say is an objective good, because there is no objective person, no objective force which can ascribe that kind of subjective value.
As such, the only way we can truly fairly govern is with the will of the people by passing popular policies.
Because global warming is simply not an issue many people care about, environmental protection cannot be a priority of our government.
My second argument is the response of companies.
We think that companies will simply leave the country if they are forced to put more money into environmental protection.
Recognize that manufacturing, in particular, simply does not have the capacity for environmental protection, because things like scrubbers, things like environmental technology decreasing overall output is far too costly to continue doing business.
They'll either close, as I'll talk about in my next argument, or they'll leave the country.
This is incredibly problematic because if a a company or factory moves its production from here to, say, china, the environmental protections in china will be far worse than the US even is now.
This will accelerate the rate of global warming and ultimately diminish our capacity to live a whole and meaningful life into the future.
My final argument is economics.
Even if companies don't leave, even if we think this policy can be passed in a just fashion, we think, at the end of the day, it does cost a lot of money.
The average worker is hired because the increased cost of having them use more technology, of having to pay them their salary is less than the amount they produce.
By increasing the cost of all technology and decreasing overall output with less efficient means, we think that the average worker just becomes less valuable.
You hire less people, you fire a huge portion of your workforce, so ultimately ultimately diminish the capacity for poor areas of the country to exist economically.
We think the majority of these manufacturing jobs belong to the poorest people in our society and we must protect them.
For this reason, we should not increase environmental protection.