We should subsidize biofuels.
Biofuels are an essential tool for governments around the world moving into the future.
For too long governments have ignored the violence against the environment that they have all contributed to.
Our relentless consumption and need to use cars and other horrific forms of transportation even when alternatives are available have left the most oppressed individuals around the world in a state of calamity.
As such, we believe that states have an obligation to step in and change the way that they have harmed the world.
I have two arguments in today's debate but first a model.
In this debate we're going to center this around the united states government.
We're going to ask that the united states government immediately change their tune and start to increase their subsidies towards biofuels.
Instead of subsidizing just corn or subsidizing other essential components for biofuels, they will subsidize the consumption and production of biofuels themself so they are not just competitive with conventional oil but actually considerably cheaper.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, about the environment.
In the status quo, we are are currently facing global warming and drastically changed temperatures based on our carbon emissions.
A massive amount of those carbon emissions come from cars and general transportation.
Even if it's not privately owned cars just us moving from place to place, they are usually cars on the long haul.
That is to say semi-trucks moving mass amounts of products contribute huge amounts of carbon to global warming.
To stop this, we must increase the total usage of biofuels.
Their production releases considerably less carbon than the extraction of oil.
Similarly, they are less destructive than fracking as I'll get to later on and they produce less carbon overall.
In doing this we will prevent the existential destruction of mankind but also allow states that are currently under water and that are suffering from increased ocean levels to improve their quality of life and stop the destruction of their states.
Even if you do not believe that states are under threat in the status quo the abuse that we have put toward smaller states is unacceptable and must change immediately.
The second argument under the environment argument is that we are just destroying certain areas and destroying certain ecosystems.
Even if global warming does not kill us, it's not good that we are destroying certain people's livelihood just because of the areas in which we extract oil.
Fracking leads to earthquakes, has destroyed water supplies and is largely in areas that are poor and cannot otherwise afford scrubbing technology to allow them to mitigate the harms of fracking.
By using biofuels we mitigate this because all of the production of oil will be done in factories with very very little externalities.
Will save people's lives and save people's monies by transferring our efforts towards biofuels.
My second argument is about energy security.
In the status quo, we get the majority of our oil from canada and saudi arabia.
Even if we do not believe that canada will betray us, saudi arabia has had a track record of using their oil supply as a political tool.
We believe that subsidizing biofuels and transferring the vast majority of our production to the united states will end this abusive policy.
This will allow the US to act with more autonomy around the world but also decrease the amount of abuse that saudi arabia is willing to put towards their neighbors and towards the US.
As they lose a major bargaining chip they'll feel less comfortable leveraging power against their neighbors.
For this reason, we should subsidize biofuels.