I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban fishing.
Fishing is not just a national pastime but also an important way of life for many individuals.
It is a requirement for many people to survive and for many individuals to appreciate the culture from which they come.
Additionally, we think that banning something as fundamental as fishing will always create a criminal element which further funds other criminal elements.
While fishing may be bad, which I'm going to prove it's not, we think that it is less bad than things like human trafficking, than selling heroin and as such, should not be contributing to the black market which also contains these other harmful things.
I have one point of brief rebuttal before two independent arguments.
So my opponent tries to outline a robust and meaningful framework for animal rights.
I think that the arguments behind them are compelling but largely unfounded.
Why is this the case?
First, we think that rights are primarily to and from government.
In the state of nature and in individual interactions, rights do not exist.
Respect of other individuals may be meaningful, but rights to only come from when there is a hierarchal structural procedural power above you and it prevents that power from harming you in certain ways.
Animals are not part of our government.
They have no role in our government other than for food.
We think that to this point, a framework for animal rights is simply not coherent.
I agree that my with my opponent's argumentation that our understanding of rights must be logical and coherent but it stems from that principle that rights are a communal aspect, that they come from our social makeup and how we interact with one another as human beings.
Extending them to animals is to extend them to individuals who neither need this sort of protection or have earned this kind of protection and as such, is simply not conducive to an effective way of governance.
This brings me to my first argument about how fishing is a way to survive for many individuals.
There is an incredibly large industry that depends upon fishing.
Huge numbers of individuals get their bounty from the sea.
They fish, they sell that fish, and as such, they're able to make a living.
We think that taking this sort of job away harms huge numbers of people.
Learning how to fish effectively, learning how to make fishing into a profession, takes an incredible amount of time.
This means that when you put these people into another industry, you are first, wasting all the time they put into learning fishing but secondly, they're likely to have no ability to learn other trades because they have simply spent too much time as fishermen.
They also will not have the money to retire and as such, they will either need to fish illegally, as I'll discuss my next argument, or make a minimum wage and essentially languish on social security and welfare as they try to move forward.
My however we'd also say that people fish to survive.
There are many communities that fish to supplement their income not just to sell but literally to put food on the table.
This violates their right to life, there right to religion, and their right to culture by restricting their access to fishing my second argument is about how this creates a criminal society and expands a black market which already exists.
We think that people do not respect dumb laws.
When prohibition was passed individuals still drank.
However, the people who were running alcohol also ran drugs, also ran humans.
The same is true now.
If we put the power of fishing into the hands of the cartels everyone who likes fish will have to go to the same person who sells heroin to get their fish.
Even if they are not directly the same individual, their money will trickle up to the top and eventually go to the kind of people who also endorse incredibly harmful and horrific forms of profiteering and as such, we think that we should not ban fishing.