We should introduce year-round schooling.
The summer break is an invention from the times of agriculture of the times of incredible farming obviously we are not done with agriculture but we are largely done with a population which makes the bulk of its money thorugh farming.
Given that this model is incredibly outdated, that it harms the education of students, and the welfare of all individuals involved in schools, we would say that we should introduce year-round schooling.
The model's fairly simple: the school year will become year-round, the school day will start a little bit later, they'll be additional total school but not by a massive margine.
Three reasons why this is a good idea.
First, terms of wakefulness and attention.
We think that students come to school incredibly tired, incredibly unfocused, and take naps during classes instead of being able to learn.
This is problematic as it destroys the true value of school which is education, particularly for students who already struggle.
We think that students who are already struggling are more prone to losing focus or have more difficulty learning the material at home particularly when they're tired and students get an extra hour of sleep, they have better attention, and a better understanding of the material.
This is incredibly important and will largely lead to long term welfare and benefits.
My second argument is the value of a consistent education.
We think that the school year is spent inefficiently.
A huge portion of the school year is spent on reteaching things from the previous year that was forgotten over the incredibly long summer break.
By removing summer break, we remove the time that was previously spent on reteaching material.
As such, over the five years that students go through elementary school excluding kindergarten, we think that students will effectively get an extra year worth of education simply because you don't need to reteach all that previous material.
This will put american students ahead, this will improve their quality of life, and improve the school system overall.
Additionally, certain subjects will just be leaps and bounds better.
Language requires constant practice and constant training.
Taking three months off of a language effectively destroys one's ability to comprehend that language.
Having everyday classes and things like language, math and gym, we will ensure that students have healthy habits and practices which will allow them to study into the long term and learn the subject in the best way possible.
My third and final argument is about welfare programs in schools.
Many students require things like school lunches, require a controlled area, require time to play every single day to actually stay alive.
This is because these sort of things are not offered in their home.
The summertime is the worst time possible.
Kids run around on the streets, kids get into violence and crime simply because there's no one watching them, and many students go hungry simply because their parents are unable or unwilling to feed them.
School guarantees that students have at least one warm meal a day and ensures that they do not get into trouble under the watchful eye of teachers and administrators.
By making it year-round, we ensure that students do not suffer the harms that they would have for by going home for an extended period of time.
This will save lives and prevent students from going into crime and being funneled into prison.
For this reason, we should introduce year round schools.