We should ban live exports.
Live exports is fundamentally an unjust business.
Selling a living thing, that is to say shipping them over large distances is truly cruel.
We could have a debate about factory farming, about keeping other animals but having someone in a tiny crate on a rocking ship for days if not weeks is truly inhumane and fundamentally unjust.
We would say that the only justifications for meat consumption and animal consumption in the status quo is that there's no meaningful alternatives for that exact experience.
But in many of these cases you don't need to ship these people across borders, especially not live animals, in order to experience these benefits in any way.
As such we would ban all live exports on an international level.
No more shipping animals, no more shipping live things, only the willing transportation of living things will be legal.
My first argument is about the spread of biological threats.
With live exports many times these animals either have diseases or contract diseases on the long trip.
Unfortunately these diseases are not from the areas that they're going to but from the areas they are coming from.
There is particular funguses and particular diseases in the pacific northwest that do not exist in japan or do not exist in china.
So if we ship pigs cows and sheep from say oregon to china, we can spread diseases which are not familiar there and can can wipe out local populations.
The only way in which animals can effectively prevent diseases is the same way as humans, which is essentially developing antibodies over a long period of time.
As such harmful diseases where there are no harms in a certain area can be truly catastrophic in another.
Second though we think that sending animals over borders largely spreads invasive species.
Things like the himalayan blackberry, which have destroyed many parts of the central US and covered them with horrendous thorns, was was spread due to seeds that were stuck on a cow.
Similarly other animals can hitch a ride with live exports as well.
Many sea creatures ultimately spread due to the fact that they latch on to a net or latch on to a tank where they're shipping say a lobster or crab, and once the excess water is poured out they're able to access the local ecosystem and destroy it.
Ultimately, the spread of invasive species destroys local ecosystems and ultimately harms animals in a fundamentally unacceptable way.
My second argument is that live exports are cruel.
In many cases these animals are, once again, in these crates for weeks on end.
As a result we think that their cramped, uncomfortable, largely die.
In many of these cases it's a written off cost for a number of animals to die due to the shipping process.
We think this is fundamentally inhumane.
If there's any system of rights which belongs to animals it must prevent this kind of harm of from coming to them.
Unnecessary harm which only allows a small decrease in costs for humans.
We believe that the system of of animal rights does exist though, because animals are sentiment, animals can form societies, animals have ways of communication and ways of understanding pain which we must respect.
Any system which extends rights to say a vegetative human would also extend rights to animals which are far more expressive and understanding than a vegetative human.
My third argument is that it prevents other forms of illegal commerce.
If all live exports are banned, it's really easy to tell if illegally exported animals are being shipped from a particular port.
Additionally we can also prevent human exports as well.
Because if we can scan a ship and see that there are any heat signals coming from the crates, we can always apprehend them and stop these sort of live exports.
We think that preventing human trafficking in preventing the trafficking of endangered species is definitely worth stopping live exports.
For this reason we should ban live exports.