We should increase tax credits.
Tax credits are when instead of providing direct cash transfers through welfare, we excuse individuals' tax burden due to the amount of work they do or due to the amount of money that they make.
It's incredibly effective at actually inspiring people to go to work more effectively and ultimately, it is incredibly valuable for our economy.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the vast majority of welfare spending be transferred to tax credits instead, primarily earned income tax credits where the more you work, the harder you work, the more of these tax credits you get, based on your income.
So if you're still not making much money but working incredibly hard, you're going to get more of these tax credits and they're going to be far more effective.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, we think that the marginal rate of taxation will largely decrease.
In the status quo, there's very little incentive for someone in a high welfare area to continue working.
If I can essentially do nothing and get a lot of money, it's just logical that I wouldn't work very hard.
Even in systems where we require people to apply for jobs consistently or to have a job every six months, it's very easy to apply to jobs but not try very hard or to simply get a job and not try very hard either: skip work, don't do anything and get fired again, and continue to get these sort of welfare dollars.
Earned income tax credits and other forms of tax credits are far more effective because people have to earn an income in the first place to get this sort of benefit.
If they are earn an income, if they start to work harder at the job that they get, we think that they'll actually: one, be more inspired to work harder and just earn more money, but also the marginal rate of taxation will decrease.
This means that the harms of me working more, the harms of me finding a better job are less costly to me and my family and as such, I'll be inspired to work harder.
My second argument is that it's politically popular.
Democrats massively support increased money going to the poor through increased tax credits.
We think that they particularly support people like those who work at walmart or work at other low-paying industries where they simply can't afford to buy a house or afford to have an apartment, yet they still work forty hour work week.
Republicans are very fond of this plan because they're not a huge fan of direct cash transfers to people in poverty, however, they do support tax cuts, they do support tax credits as well.
As such, we think that more money will go into the system as there'll be bipartisan support for increased tax credits, increased spending to improve tax credits, which will largely help the poor.
We think that there's a government obligation to help the poorest in our society as they have, one: been the people who we have largely depended on for cheap labor for a massive amount of time.
They're the reason that we were able to spend incredibly cheaply and largely prop up our capitalist system, but two: many are simply victims of the lottery of birth.
They did not choose to be in poverty.
They did not choose what their parents would have and as such, we think that they're victims of circumstance who deserve more money than they are currently getting.
My third and final argument is this provides more control to the government.
Having more tax credits means that we are far more easily able to alter particular actions.
We can provide tax credits for renewable resources.
We can provide tax credits for people shopping responsibly, shopping sustainably, ultimately provides the government far more autonomy than actually telling individuals how best to cater their to their community, how best to actually help the people around them.
We think the government's fairly effective in this role given that they are able to take a large-level picture of what's actually necessary.
At the same time, we think that many individuals are simply on the edge of spending responsibly or spending on good products, and providing these sort of tax credits both rewards people who have already spent money into renewable or sustainable resources while also incentivizing people to enter this market now.
For this reason, we should increase tax credits.