We should ban extreme sports.
Extreme sports represent an unnecessary risk taken on by any of its participants.
When there is such an asymmetry of information between those taking part in the activity and the realities of that activity, it is the obligation of government to step in and ensure that citizens are not putting their lives in danger.
Because we think extreme sports have profound risk with incredibly low reward, we support banning extreme sports and support the following model: that governments around the world ban any sport which involves incredible amounts of training or which has inherent risk.
This doesn't mean that we would ban basketball just because the NBA exists and pro players exist.
We're banning any sport where the skill floor still must be very high to ensure the safety of the participants.
Now my first argument for why we should ban extreme sports is that government has an obligation to protect citizens.
Now, typically, we do not support bans on certain kinds of actions, but they're justifiable in a few instances: first, if there exists inadequate information for what happens when you take part in a specific activity, second, if there's unjustifiable risk involved with that activity, and third, if there exists third-party harms from a certain activity.
We would say that extreme sports fails in each individual criteria.
The combination of all three criteria make it incredibly clear that we ought ban it, but it would be justifiable to ban a particular activity if it fails even one of the criteria I just listed.
Now, why is extreme sports incredibly difficult to get adequate information on?
There's an active misinformation campaign, both by the pros who are part of the activity and by the media who represent it.
The only way that these individuals can make as much money as possible is if they seem somewhat relatable.
If they make it so taking part in the activity and essentially giving it a shot is incredibly easy, this draws younger individuals in and it creates lifelong viewers.
And while it may be beneficial for those individuals who can profit off this viewership, putting individuals in harm's way can never be justified.
The second reason why there's inadequate information is because there are incredibly few resources out there which cover extreme sports.
Because extreme sports can be safe with incredible amounts of training, it's impossible to do a study on the inherent risks of extreme sports.
We would say that the average individual who takes part in in an extreme sport puts their lives at risk with incredibly little return.
Third and finally, we would say that there's a lot of biased information, as the individuals who most often cover extreme sports are its own fans.
The inability to determine if the act is safe means that government must ban it.
It also fails in the criteria of unjustifiable risks.
Given that there's incredibly low rewards and inherent risk to the activity, government should step in to prevent young children from taking part in this.
This is the same reason why we allow requirements for helmets.
Even though individuals understand that there is risk, when the reward for not wearing a helmet is so low you take on inherent unjustifiable risk, government ought step in.
Now my second argument is that there's a problematic culture surrounding extreme sports.
We think that a lot of the time it advertises to children and teens, who are far more likely to be caught up in the misinformation campaign.
Because of this, we would say that government must step in to protect these particular classes of individuals.
Secondly, there's a culture of vandalism and refusing authority.
We think that this is a bad thing to be teaching to society writ large.
When a particular culture destroys the areas in which it occurs, like BMX bikers in natural landscape or skateboarders in skate parks, it's the government's role to protect this kind of property and to ban this kind of activity.
For this reason, we should ban extreme sports.