We should prohibit tower blocs.
Although tower blocks seem like a good choice for lower income families their poor upkeep and their shoddy make makes them very very dangerous.
The grenfell tower demonstrates that tower blocks will always be a problematic choice for lower income families.
However given that they live under the constant threat of running out of money they will regularly take the choice putting them and their family at risk.
Because of this we support the following model that tower blocks around the world be removed that individuals be given one year to vacate them and then they should be destroyed for other use in the community.
Two arguments to support this model and motion.
First tower blocks are dangerous tower blocks are usually poorly made government contracts go out to the the cheapest contractor and when individuals know that these departments have to cater to low income families there's little incentive to make them as nice as possible.
The reason that there's this cost ceiling which exists is because living in such tight quarters with a variety of other families means that wealthier individuals or and will never pay a high cost for the rooms.
This means that contractors can get away with making the rooms very poorly and making the building unsafe as a whole.
Additionally though they're unlikely to have good upkeep.
Rent controls used on these apartments and when landlords know that individuals will be forced to take the apartment regardless of the quality it will not spend money to on upkeep meaning that people who live in the house will have a poor quality of life and will incur a variety of the cost upon themselves in order to make the apartment livable in the long term making it more expensive than what wealthier people could find another neighborhood.
Additionally though escape is incredibly difficult from tower blocks.
If a fire does occur it's very difficult to climb from say the thirty fifth bill tower of a building particularly when fire escapes are simply not made to go that low.
The poor upkeep the poor make the difficulty of escape makes them a death trap for individuals who move in.
When poor individuals are the only individuals who take these rooms we are violating a reciprocal obligation to keep these people safe.
Poor individuals are largely poor because of societal factors.
It's because a history of oppression from wealthy individuals and a history of poor financial maintenance from individual's families.
This means that the harms put upon them by tower blocks are no way their own fault and as such the government has an obligation to protect these individuals.
The second argument we'd like to make though is that this leads to an unhealthy urban density.
This over strains the location and makes it far more difficult for people to live effectively.
Things like hospitals in the area will be pushed to the max to their maximum capacity by these tower blocks in the area things like roads things like a police officer things like schools will be full to the brim due to these tower blocks.
There's a huge incentive to build multiple tower blocks very close to one another because once an area has already been made lower income due to these tower blocs you can build more in the area for cheap.
This puts even further strain on public resources making it difficult for people to live effectively.
Government has an obligation to maintain these public resources and as such cannot allow tower blocks to remain.
Additionally though broken windows theory shows this that tower blocks lead toward crime.
In areas that are perceived as lower income that are perceived as having worse upkeep crime is far more likely simply from a societal perspective.
Individuals see the area as less safe and will understand that they can commit crime more easily.
As such more crime will occur against lower income families if they live in a tower block.
Because they're unjust and because they represent a costly choice we should prohibit tower blocks.