We should end daylight savings time.
Daylight savings time is an antiquated tradition which allowed for additional time in the day for farmers in the mid to early twentieth century.
Because we think daylight savings time has no place in our modern world, we support the following model: that all states which currently use daylight savings time should abandon it in favor of a consistent time throughout the year.
I have two arguments to support this motion: first, that daylight savings time is wholly arbitrary, and second, that it causes societal issues.
Now, on arbitrariness: we would say that no society and, in particular, governments and markets, should depend on completely arbitrary standards.
Now, two jarring changes in the time throughout the year have no clear basis in nature.
It is understandable that individuals would like to claim more of the day.
However, by changing the time, all they do is shift daylight from one time to another rather than meaningfully changing how individuals go about their day-to-day lives.
Now this arbitrary change is bad for a few reasons.
First, we would say that it is fundamentally against nature.
This is harmful on two levels.
When individuals observe daylight savings time, particularly when they are in the agricultural field, when they're a farmer, when they work in genetic testing to produce better produce, we would say that daylight savings time can affect them in incredibly harmful ways.
Nature does not respond to daylight savings time.
Unfortunately, when crops are not harvested at the same time of day, when farmers do not have a meaningful routine, when animals are woken up at a an hour difference, overall it can be harmful, both to the goods being produced, but can generally be harmful to the soil as well.
We would say that observing daylight savings time is awful for agriculture and leads to billions of dollars of losses throughout the world.
Additionally, we would say that this arbitrariness is harmful to humans as well.
This is because when individuals try to plan meetings, try to plan their lives, try to follow a routine when the time of day has been shifted by an entire hour, this becomes incredibly difficult.
Although there is a certain level of conscious willpower to routine, to schedules, a lot of it is instinct, intuition, which is does not simply change based on the mandate of society.
As such, daylight savings time messes with a huge number of people's schedule and makes them, once again, less efficient and less happy.
Now my second argument is that this can lead to societal or cross-cultural issues as well.
Daylight savings time simply is not universal.
Many states do not recognize it, even states in the united states appreciate it differently.
As such, it can cause issues on two fronts.
First, it can cause issues in trade.
When there's been a schedule in place for a considerable amount of time, when a future's contract explicitly defines a particular time, this can lead to profound issues in delivery, in meetings, when this time has been shifted by an entire hour.
As the world becomes more global and trade must be between states rather than within states, we would say that daylight savings time causes profound harms.
Additionally, daylight savings time is incredibly difficult to program into a variety of different programs overall.
Recognize that appreciating every single different time zone and then how they differently use daylight savings time can make it very difficult for programmers, increasing the overhead and the production costs of programming by a substantial margin if they want to include time as part of it.
As such, we should end daylight savings time.