We should introduce a pollution tax.
There is incredible amounts of pollution in the status quo.
We see that governments and corporations pump out tons and tons of carbon and other greenhouse gases on a daily basis.
There's constantly pushes for personal accountability within the global warming prevention movements and the environmental movement writ large.
However, there is considerably less accountability on behalf of corporations and as such, we must introduce economic incentives for corporations to simply be better.
To that end, we would propose the following model: a substantial tax on pollution by the ton.
That is to say, we will measure the output of pollution per ton and charge individuals a substantial amount.
We would expect that high pollutant manufacturing companies that do not change their current organizational structure will pay about thirty percent more of their profits of their total revenue in this tax.
We think that low pollutant industries will probably pay about three to five percent unless they change their tactics to a major extent.
Two arguments why this is a good idea: first, on how it will change companies' decision structures.
We think that companies largely want to compete on the marketplace and largely respond to profit incentives.
The only reason that a company ever responds to backlash or ever responds to social pressure is primarily simply because they don't want people to stop buying their products, because there's a financial incentive for them to change.
Unfortunately, there's simply not enough incentive for companies to change in the status quo.
We think that many individuals will are unaware of the amount of pollution that comes from particular companies and as such, there's no way for them to really hold them accountable.
Even when they know how much pollution comes from them, companies like oil, companies like logging, are impossible to avoid.
That is to say, it is impossible to avoid the worst companies because they are constantly in control of markets overall.
The only way to truly weaken their stranglehold on these particular markets is to increase the total cost that they have to pay when selling to consumers.
This comes in the form a pollution tax.
We first think this will drive the worst pollutants out of the market.
The only way that pollutants will stay in the market is if they raise their price to reflect the total societal harm that they do, that is to say, the berry the very function of taxes in the first place and, as a result, they are largely paid based on this sort of harm that's done.
This will largely mean that the worst pollutants will leave the industry overall.
However, we also think that many companies will start to introduce scrubbers, will start to introduce other ways to prevent this kind of greenhouse gases from being released into the atmosphere.
This will largely save huge numbers of lives, as I'll discuss in my next argument.
My second argument, then, is global warming and the effect on the environment.
Unfortunately, we are currently hurtling down a path towards existential destruction.
In a hundred, a hundred fifty years, it is likely that increased sea levels, increased temperature levels will kill thousands upon thousands of people around the world every year.
And when I say thousands, I don't mean two or three thousand, I mean hundreds of thousands of individuals.
We see this in the status quo where states like tuvalu, ocean states, small fishing villages, are already under water.
These create economic migrants who then have costs, who then create anti-immigrant sentiment, as there's simply not enough room and not enough social services to go around in the vast majority of states.
If we want to fight these sort of things, we must fight the greatest pollutants: corporations.
This kind of tax will solve these kinds of problems and as such, we should introduce a pollution tax.