I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish homework.
When a student says that they hate homework it is not because it is not helpful for them or it doesn't make them happy, it's because people just don't like work.
However, we think that education is an important tool for empowerment and it generally allows individuals to live a better quality of life moving forward.
The complaints we hear from my opponent are largely those that you would hear from an individual who is still in high school, someone who just hates homework due to the fact that it is homework and does not care how it is actually used or how it is put upon the individual.
I have two arguments today for why homework is an important tool for teachers and generally improves the educational well being of students but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent spends a considerable amount of time talking about how americans have fallen behind, how americans simply aren't as good at education as other countries.
Now the countries who typically top the list in terms of english, I guess not english but literature in general, literacy, education in terms of math and science, usually have way more homework than the average american gets and as such, we think that if we want to use them as a model, if you want to pay attention to how other countries have improved their education system, we should not be abolishing homework.
Additionally, when we see higher income areas those who actually rank fairly high on a global scale in terms of their level of education, we see more homework, we see more time put into these kinds of things and although sometimes this comes in the form of tutors we think that for people in poverty and lower income students who cannot afford tutors homework is the next best thing.
Now the last piece of rebuttal I want to do is to respond to my opponent's point about how students don't get enough sleep, how they're too stressed, how they spend their nights working on homework.
This is hugely non-unique.
Assign a a student five hours of homework and they will start at ten PM and work till three AM.
Assign a student three hours of homework and they will work from midnight to three AM.
Generally students will work later if they have less homework and as such, they are unlikely to get more sleep as a result of less homework in general.
This brings me to my two arguments first, on teacher autonomy.
We think that teachers are at their worst when they do not have control over their curriculum and their classroom.
Students are always going to be benefited from a teacher who has the best understanding of their own curriculum.
When a teacher feels like they are not in control of a classroom they'd feel that they cannot really relate to their students they can't understand the way that their students are learning and as such, cannot translate the out of classroom experiences into the classroom itself.
If teachers want to guarantee that they can have an effective classroom in effective use of their time, we think it it is essential that we provide them as many tools as possible including homework.
My second argument is about just the value of continued learning.
There simply is not enough time in the classroom to teach all of these different things.
Although the classroom is useful for teaching the general tools surrounding a particular subject, homework is where students apply that actual tool.
We think that if you didn't have homework students would do considerably worse on tests because teachers would either have to cut time teaching subjects for students to try them in class or they would simply have to trust the student is actually learning, actually applying the subjects on their own even though there is literally no way to test which is what homework is and as such, we think that this faith is largely misplaced.
Additionally, we think that just frequent reminder of a particular subject is enough for someone to learn better.
If I am do two hours straight of spanish I might learn a decent amount, but if I do one hour at part of the day and another hour later in the day, that's how I learn the best.
For this reason, we should not abolish homework.