I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit green technology.
What does this motion actually say?
It asks us whether or not that we should look at the status quo and invest in green technology considerably more than the market has already put into that amount into that fund.
At the point where we think the market is the best aggregator of individuals' preferences and the best distributor of resources, artificially increasing funding towards green technology simply serves to distort the market, lead to an inefficient system, and have profound political backlash.
Before I get into my three arguments, I'd like to do a brief overview about global warming in general.
There's profound disagreement on global warming, not whether it exists but the immediacy with which we need to solve it.
The only way that we can get a total and effective solution to global warming is to have profound investment in the market and have a market willing to tackle the issue.
When there is artificial amounts of funding going towards green technology, individuals will not feel as motivated to fight for green technology and push towards a solution that we so desperately need.
My first argument is that green technology, particularly the investment in green technology, leads to market distortion.
We think that the market has already invested funds into green technology based on what is most efficient.
Individuals have put green technology in places where they can save money, and have refused to put it in other places.
At the point where we are putting in unjust amount of money into green technology, we have two immediate harms.
First off, we think that employment opportunities will change in a problematic way.
Dirty coal technology, which we would say is not green, and that's huge amounts of low skilled labor where green technology is still in the r and d phase, putting money towards the wealthier individuals.
If we want to have a more equitable system, if we don't want to put huge amounts of poor laborers onto the street, we cannot decrease our funding towards dirty technology, and simply change the way that our employment works.
The second way that this causes market distortion is that it unjustly changes energy prices, such that certain firms can't compete.
We think that for green technology to be adopted, it must be able to compete with gas and coal at a dollar level.
We think that technology has been moving towards that in the status quo, but if government decides to subsidize green technology, the end result will be individuals not understanding how much it costs, and they will stop investing to make it cheaper.
We think that the only way to be widely adopted is if green technology comes considerably cheaper to adopt, and as such they could actually lead to the in the long term later adoption of green technology, if we invest in it now.
My second argument is that green technology has profound diminishing returns.
In the status quo, we are already using all land which would be valuable to put towards green technology.
If you look around, there are huge fields of solar panels, huge amounts of wind turbine set up, which are already getting power.
More green technology, more places which adopt it, will simply be wasted land, it will be land that probably doesn't get as much energy or it'd be more efficient being used for other purposes.
At the point in the future when it is efficient to change land, it will occur, but if we do it in the status quo, the efficiency of our society will decrease.
Now, my third argument is the idea of political backlash.
We are already trying to cut funding in the status quo and decrease tax dollars going to green technology.
If we change to actually put more money into these systems, we think that conservative parties will oppose this increase in tax revenue, this diverting research and funding towards these sources, and as such will be less likely to adopt in the future, and also push for fewer regulations on coal and other green other technology which we think is essential to have meaningful long term change.
As such, we think that this could ultimately have zero carbon impact, and should not be adopted.
Thank you.