I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase the capital gains tax.
The capital gains tax is just as regressive as any form of taxation.
We think that the average individual keeps their money in four oh one k's.
They keep their money in pensions.
And these are all capital gains.
Sure, some money is paid in every single year, but we think that savings accounts would pay out the same amount if there weren't capital gains on top of the money that these people are taking out.
As such, as you take this money away from these people, as you charge people more money for their capital gains, the result is twofold.
We think, first, individuals will simply put less money into these stocks and bonds and savings, in general.
This is far more likely to leave people destitute in their old age.
If you don't have the benefits of stocks and bonds, if you don't have effective savings, you'll lose out.
You ultimately can't feed yourself as an elderly individual.
You have to depend on the state to pay for your goods and services which, ultimately, just means the taxpayer pays more money.
Alternatively, we think that individuals might still put a lot of money in, but if you take out all the money that they get, essentially if you tax their capital gains, we think individuals will still have the same result.
They will be unable to feed themselves, unable to pay for themselves and, ultimately, the government will have to pay forward what it took from them in the past.
We think this is simply inefficient and, besides the argument I just stated, we have two more.
First is backlash.
We think that the wealthiest individuals in our country are not really likely to pay a huge amount of their money into the economy, into tax dollars, if the alternative is keeping it themselves.
As such, we think that they'll simply move their money around.
The cayman islands, swiss banks, there are various financial institutions around the world that are willing to hide this money and make it impossible for americans to actually tax it effectively.
We think the panama papers proved that the super wealthy are willing to take their money out of the country if it means they'll pay less taxes.
Now this is incredibly problematic.
If someone leaves the country with their money and they paid, essentially, zero taxes as a result of this, that means that the american people lose out on the money they would otherwise have gotten.
If the capital gains tax is, say, ten percent, and people are willing to stomach that in order to invest in the american economy and keep their money liquid in the united states, that's what the american people get.
If we double the tax rate to, say, twenty percent, and the majority of people leave the country, we get less tax dollars, they pay less taxes overall and, ultimately, everyone is worse off, because they have less liquid access to funds and we get less tax dollars.
My final argument is that increasing the capital gains tax is inefficient.
Individuals already put money into the economy whenever they buy something, whenever they pay their workers, whenever they do anything with their funds.
However, direct cash transfers are massively inefficient.
We think the government is a massive bureaucracy that wastes money every single day.
A lot of the money that would be gained from the capital gains tax is likely to go into military spending, which is largely inefficient and wasteful.
As such, we think that the capital gains tax would actually take money that goes into the economy and use it less effectively.
This is the idea of pareto-optimality.
It's a leaky bucket where every time you tax someone's dollar, it means that the people of our country, that means that the economy of our country decreases in its efficiency and people are simply worse off.
For this reason, we should not increase the capital gains tax.