We should ban abortion.
As an act between two different individuals, abortion represents putting the rights of the mother above the rights of the child in literally every single circumstance.
The choice to terminate another human's life simply to improve the utility of the mother is fundamentally unjust.
We would say that as long as the fetus is a moral agent deserving human consideration, that we cannot allow abortions.
With that, we propose the following model: that all abortions be banned accepting cases of sexual assault or medical abortions, that is when the child or the mother's life would be threatened by the pregnancy.
We would also say that this debate should occur in a world where there's ample access to birth control and clear alternatives that women can take other than abortion.
Two arguments for why we should ban abortions: first off, that the fetus is a moral agent.
There are two possibilities when abortion is occurring: either the mother knows about the pregnancy from day one or suspects that they are pregnant, in which case they can take plan b or other emergency contraceptives.
The other case is after fourteen days when they start showing signs of pregnancy and they take a pregnancy test.
We would say it's very clear that they know about the pregnancy before fourteen days they should take action.
They should terminate the pregnancy using methods other than abortion.
However after fifteen days we would say that the fetus is essentially human.
It has a reflex response, it hasn't been ejected with other eggs, we would say that the primal streak has started to develop and a clear bone structure, muscle structure, and reflex system is developing within the fetus.
This means that it meets nearly all of our conceptions for what a human is.
It response to external stimuli, it has the ability to control its surroundings.
We would say that any system which defines humanity must be universalizable.
This means we can't use things such as intelligence or even simple measure of cognizance to determine if something is human.
We would say that individuals in vegetative states are also human and as such they must be included in the definition.
We would say anything that has a reflex response, has the DNA of a human, and is essentially within the species homo sapien, ought be considered human.
And ending the the life of humans is fundamentally unjust.
We would say that as long as the fetus is a human it ought be defined under our laws and our consideration of ethics.
Because the good is idiosyncratic, we would say that any understanding of ethics must come from a baseline where all individuals are born equal, all are equal in creation.
As such, we would say that we must extend those same rights to fetuses as well.
The second argument is the idea of culpability.
Very simply, mothers have consented to the risk of pregnancy when they have sex.
We would say that particularly unprotected sex, in a world where birth control is very easy to access, is essentially unjustifiable when you know that a child could come as a result of the action.
The two actors in this case have had very different situations put upon them: the mother consented to the risk and the harms are at worst the birth of a child.
They can always give the child up for adoption.
However for the fetus the harms of the pregnancy and the potential abortion were imposed upon them.
They had no consent to the situation as a whole.
And it also represents murder rather than simply giving birth as a result of this action.
As such we would say that there are far greater harms imposed upon the fetus then the harms consented to by the mother, and as such it is only moral that we ban abortions.
Thank you.