We should subsidize recycling.
Recycling is an incredible tool for the conservation of our planet.
As recycling has become more popular and more common, the costs of resources has decreased substantially.
It has made it so our environment is much more clean, our landfills are much less much less full, and the entire world is a better place.
Because we think that recycling is good but we can improve it substantially, would propose the following model: that individuals be paid per pound that they recycle.
For every pound of item in the recycling which is not recyclable, individuals will face a fairly steep fine.
The ratio will be for every one pound of non-recyclable goods, they'll be charged the equivalent of three pounds of recyclable goods largely increasing the incentive for individuals to be careful while recycling.
We think this'll also massively increase the total amount of recycling because individuals who can put in very little effort to get a decent amount of money will generally do so.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First off on the environment.
When recycling becomes more prevalent a few things happen.
First, we think that there's less resources extracted in general.
Many plastics and many recyclable materials are based off oil, are based off of paper, are based off of essential resources whose extraction causing considerable environmental harm.
As such, the more that we recycle, the less resource extraction is necessary saving our environment from those things such as global warming which are intrinsically linked to oil.
Secondly though, we think that this largely leads to less production.
As there's less processing of materials because in already formed plastic boxes incredibly easy to reshape clean and sell again, we think that this largely decreases the production of plastic goods in general.
This is not just extraction but the creation of these goods becomes less environmentally costly.
Third though, we think that as individuals get paid from recycling they're far more likely to buy recyclable goods.
This increases the demand for these goods and generally reduces the total externalities in the market.
We think that individuals particularly farms, will respond to this demand and increase the total amount of recyclable goods in the production line.
We think that this will lead to a general increase in recycling which can lead to the long run defense of our planet from existential destruction which is a potential cause or potential harm of global warming.
More realistically and more short term, global warming is already creating refugees as certain nations such as tuvalu go under water.
We think it's essential that we act rapidly and immediately by doing things like subsidizing recycling which can save entire nations from going under water.
My second argument is about resource costs.
We think that as a resource costs decrease a few things happen.
First, you see cheaper goods.
As the cost of goods decrease, we also see an instance of decreased prices increasing the benefits for both consumers and producers.
This increases the total production of our society and improves total quality of life.
Additionally, as plastics become cheaper things like three_d printing becomes cheaper.
Things that are involved in innovation and long run technical processing also become considerably cheaper increasing the total innovation that we see in the tech sector and in the production sector as well.
My third argument is about technological advancement of green energy.
We think as things become more popular and as there's a greater demand, you see more innovation.
We think that recycling has a long way to go.
We think that more recyclable materials is a distinct possibility.
The capacity to recycle also different types of metal and food stained goods is also very possible.
However, there's very little demand for these kinds of things because individuals generally do not benefit from them.
I think as we subsidize recycling on both the individual and the corporate level, we're going to see a technological increase in green energy as such, we should subsidize recycling.