I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize public transportation.
The current amount of funding going into public transportation is already adequate.
We would say that increased funding without ample discussion among taxpayers and ample discussion at the city and state level, would be premature and would largely be useless.
Three arguments for why we should not subsidize public transportation.
First being market distortion, second, that it is a bad usage of funds, and third, that it puts the control of our mobility into incompetent hands.
First, on market distortion.
The current market was situated with an understanding of supply and demand.
It took the amount of money that individuals were willing to put into the public transportation system, and brought back a product which responded equally, which understood the total amount that consumers wanted out of the system.
We would say that the government stepping in and putting extra money into public transportation would simply be inefficient.
It would create a system in which the current under the current modes of transportation would no longer get to compete justly.
We think for public transportation to be useful, it must be cheaper and more comfortable.
The reason that individuals don't use public transportation in the status quo is not the price, and for it to compete in a meaningful way, the market must respond with an understanding of its true price.
The current price allows other individuals to compete with public transportation, while still giving public transportation incentive to compete on every single level.
Removing these incentives harms public transportation in the long term, and makes it so none of my opponent's benefits can be actualized.
Now, my second argument is that this is a bad use of funds.
First, people won't use more public transportation.
Public transportation is already far and away the cheapest way for get to point a to for to get from point a to point b.
Making it cheaper won't convince the person in their corolla, won't convince the person in their fancy car to get out of that car and into a bus.
At the point where there won't be a meaningful increase in individuals using public transportation, the end result is simply throwing money into a money pit.
Waste wasting taxpayer dollars which could be going to schools or other means as well.
We think that this will either be an unjust increase in taxes, which we think is the government overstepping its bounds and its control over the people, or would be a result of cutting another program, which we think will inevitably fall on the shoulders of either the poor or schools, given that those are the individuals with the least political influence, and these are the individuals who deserve their money cut the least.
Additionally though, we think it's a bad use of funds because cars won't solve global warming, changing the discourse on public transportation is not enough, and the continued focus on this issue will never allow us to solve the root causes of global warming, things like corporate control and things like deforestation.
And our third and final argument is that this puts control of our transportation in incompetent hands.
It's been shown throughout the united states that the government is not good at controlling our transportation.
They schedule construction for bad times a day, when they control things like the boston public transportation, the MBTA regularly shuts down trains, preventing individuals from coming to work.
Even in a private level, companies like which control many west coast transportation infrastructures, simply are not good at getting buses out at the right time.
We think the end result is an inefficient system, where people cannot get to their appointments on time and cannot get to their job on time, and as such they will have further playing against them and a job setting increasing inequality, but additionally have potential harms to their personal life, to their health, as they can't make appointments or meetings on time.
As such, we should not subsidize public transportation.