I stand and firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize wikipedia.
Wikipedia is an incredible tool for change.
It provides an unparalleled amount of information for free to the entire world.
The only barrier to accessing wikipedia are governments who decide to ban it.
Literally anyone who's outside of the states which have censored wikipedia can access nearly limitless information and truly make their lives better using it.
This makes it incredibly unclear why my opponent adopted the model they did.
They said that there will only be a few thousand dollars going to wikipedia.
I'm first going to address the model with a brief overview before going on to my two arguments: the issues with optical capture of wikipedia and second how it will lose its global influence.
So first off on the overview.
Wikipedia's operating costs are in the hundreds of thousands, potentially millions, given that it employs a full staff, has incredible server demands, nearly one of the largest sites on the web, and has incredible storage demands as well.
This isn't just something like twitter, which may have a backlog but only to store a hundred and forty characters.
Wikipedia has thousands upon thousands of articles which it stores in their entirety.
With hyperlinks, with graphics, just the storage of the site alone is incredibly costly.
But also, making it scalable is even more difficult.
A few thousand dollars will make literally no difference from a government, but it will trigger all of the harms of giving wikipedia about a million dollars.
For this reason there's no reason to prefer subsidizing wikipedia to the of a few thousand dollars.
-s leads me to my first argument: the idea of optical capture.
It's not to say that they're going to capture them optically, but many individuals who see the united states federal government paying wikipedia will think that wikipedia has been captured by the government and is now a tool for the government to distort.
Why is this a problem?
First we think that you lose moderators.
A huge number of the moderators on wikipedia are its most die hard fans.
The individuals who believe in free exchange and free evolution of information.
This means that if the government steps in and essentially pushes these people out as they no longer feel safe or comfortable in this environment, wikipedia will lose a huge amount of its moderation staff.
This means that articles are far less likely to be effective.
This means that my opponents fear, that is to say government officials changing things to their own benefit, is far less likely to be caught and removed.
This turns my opponents entire case on its head and demonstrates why subsidizing wikipedia is a terrible idea.
Additionally under this we think that new groups will rise.
Although the costs of wikipedia are incredibly expensive, the actual up front information requirements are very very low.
You can download all of wikipedia onto computer if you have space this means that a new organizations should could get up and running, download all of wikipedia and steal all of its viewers.
The issue here is first, wikipedia and this organization will now compete for funding, making them both non solid within a few years, and second new organizations have not been tested and they're far more likely to have bias among them and have abusive administrators.
This leads me to my second argument, the idea of global influence.
Many individuals around the world are afraid of the US government's influence on private organizations.
The CIA has used private organizations to influence the minds of individuals since its inception.
Because of this the global influence of wikipedia will clearly if the united states federal government steps in.
This leads to a massive decrease of information accessibility around the world, particularly to the global poor.
For this reason that we should not subsidize wikipedia.