When individuals feel uncomfortable in schools they cannot effectively learn.
Because comprehensive sex education makes students and parents incredibly uncomfortable in a number of situations, we believe that abstinence only sex education should be mandatory throughout the united states.
There are two pieces of substantive material to defend this argument: first, we believe that they'll be profound religious opposition to comprehensive sex education.
In conservative communities, conservative politicians regularly oppose comprehensive sex education.
George w.
Bush put in place a variety of restrictions on comprehensive sex education, demonstrating how even moderate republicans oppose anything except for abstinence only.
There are also a variety of non profits dedicated to teaching only abstinence in schools.
In conservative communities nothing but abstinence only sex education will be effective in actually teaching students.
But even in liberal areas, very conservative individuals whether they are religiously conservative or just politically conservative, oppose comprehensive sex education and are willing to pull their children out of class in order to ensure that they are shielded from ideas that they find repugnant.
Now, what this means is that when comprehensive sex education is taught in any school, they'll always be massive risks.
First, we think that religious individuals will pull their children out of school if they find comprehensive sex education a view that they just do not hold.
What this means is that students will have no access to other things that the health class teaches.
Recognize that health class is essential in teaching teaching students things like nutrition, teaching them to have effective healthy relationships, informing them about things like domestic abuse and the ability to prevent it and what resources they have to actually fight in the future.
There are a variety of ways to actually access comprehensive sex education besides the school system, whether it be parents or, with the rise of the internet, a variety of online resources.
However, when you put the entire onus on the children that are pulled out of health class to learn about the entire health class curriculum, a number of students will fall through.
They'll be unable to keep themselves healthy and they're unlikely to have a healthy relationship in the future.
We think that both of these causes are more important independently then understanding sex as a topic, so we we think that we ought defer to the children who would lose everything by teaching comprehensive sex sex education.
Additionally, we think that teaching comprehensive sex education puts a target on health classes throughout the united states.
As I've already discussed, conservative politicians, even at a federal level, are willing to put restrictions on local areas that teach comprehensive sex education and otherwise drain the pool for this good education.
What this means is that when we teach abstinence only, it's unlikely to draw the sort of ire.
As I've already discussed, health class is incredibly important.
But conservatives in the united states have demonstrated very clearly that they're willing to harm people they don't usually want to harm to actually destroy causes that they dislike.
This is the case with planned parenthood where they attack their funding even though abortions are a very very small portion of what they actually do.
Now, the second point of substantive material is that sex education is a generally a misuse of time.
We think that there's so much to cover in health class that you are just teach more about relationships or health in general.
Recognize that time is zero sum.
It's impossible to teach a variety of topics at the exact same time and every word we state is a substitute for another word that could be said.
When we teach comprehensive sex education that we waste a huge amount of time.
Abstinence only is incredibly fast, all you need to do is just say don't have sex and then you move on to other topics.
But additionally, we think that sacrificing health class for other classes can be important to.
If increasing time spent on math, english, literature are all important for things like access in college, and are things that are harder to access through the internet while as I stated before, health class information is incredibly easy to access through a variety of online resources.
Because of these two arguments, we believe that abstinence only sex education should be mandatory.