I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should ban smoking.
Although smoking might be dangerous, when individuals consent to the harms of their action, government has no right to step in and tell them that they cannot take that action.
At the point where smoking causes incredibly few third-party harms, it is unacceptable for government to step in and restrict a right which belongs to all people.
I have two arguments today.
First off, on the rights of individuals and second, on black markets.
So, under the rights of individuals, I want to discuss how government operates and where government obligation lies.
There are two cases in which government can step in for the safety of their citizens.
First, if there's an active misinformation campaign that cannot be solved by the market.
We would say that this is not the case in smoking because it fails each part of that clause.
Is to say there's not an active misinformation campaign, given that the government had put a stop to this over fifty years ago, put out numerous PSAs to inform individuals about the effect of smoking, require surgeon general warnings on cartons of cigarettes, and otherwise restrict the consumption of cigarettes until a far later age.
At that point, individuals understand what they're putting into their body.
They understand the risks of their own actions.
My opponent wants to argue that government must step in to protect its citizens, but he does not give a clear bright-line in which where in which government can step in and actually stop individuals from taking an action, without going too far in restricting their rights.
If we would restrict all things which harm individuals, we should ban things like oreos.
We should ban extreme sports.
We should ride we should ban riding a motorcycle.
We would say that these are all rights which an individual can take to improve their quality of life, and government stepping in and telling them that the government knows best is simply restricting their rights in an incredibly problematic way.
The second reason which government can step in is if there are third-party harms, if the taking a certain action will affect other people in a massively adverse way.
This is why we ban things like drunk driving, because a certain individual is taking an action, but it could easily kill other people or cause massive property damage.
Now, many people argue that cigarettes have huge third-party harms, things like secondhand smoking can be harmful, it can be uncomfortable to smell it or breathe it in.
However, we would say that this doesn't meet the criteria.
It's there're also third-party harms to removing the muffler from your car or, honestly, from speaking too loud in a public place.
However, we would not restrict people's rights to do these things, because they draw utility from it.
Because the third-party harm of smoking can be mitigated by simply walking away and there're numerous situations in which bars, restaurants already ban smoking, so individuals individuals are never captive audiences to the smoking, we would say that you it is unjust for government to say that this meets the bar for third-party harms.
As such, government restricting these rights harms both the individuals who would like to consume tobacco and harms the market, as investors feel unsafe investing in particular goods that they thought government would allow the market to determine if they are good or bad.
Now my second argument is that this will lead to a massive black market.
Many people are already addicted to cigarettes, and making it so they cannot buy them legally just means they'll buy them illegally.
Many individuals will continue to grow tobacco because they know it's the most profitable crop, and they will sell it to cartels or other illegal smugglers, who will sell it around the world.
Society is unlikely to condemn these individuals or turn them into police and as such, a large brack black market will grow.
The same black market will send money will use the cigarette money for things like human trafficking or the production of things like black tar heroin, meth and other crimes, and as such, we would say that you simply contribute to a overall system of prohibition which leads to widespread crime, poverty and violence.
As such, we should not ban smoking.