I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish foster care.
Although movies and the media like to depict foster care parents as abusive, money grubbing individuals, in the vast majority of cases those who are in foster care are those with big hearts, lots of experience, and those who really want to do well for the children they take in.
Abolishing foster care would undo decades of work and experience which has gone to make foster care one of the most efficient and important systems for modern child rearing in this country.
Obviously by modern child rearing I'm referring only to the cases where the parents are unavailable, whether they've passed away or simply do not want the child foster care provides options for new parents, old parents, individuals who simply understand they cannot take care of a kid after taking on that obligation.
Abolishing it would do incredibly problematic things to the whole of the system and society.
I have one overview before a piece of extraneous rebuttal and then two arguments of my own.
Now my overview is about how the system of foster care is not inherently broken.
When tim takes on the ability to truly reform the the system of orphanages put huge amounts of money into these orphanages I would suggest that taking that same amount of money and putting it towards foster care improving state wards states all around the country would seriously improve the foster care system and solve the vast majority of problems that tim points out.
Now my point of extraneous rebuttal has to do with the idea that these foster cares systems are inherently abusive are used to make money.
Yes every single child you take in makes money, that is true, but the idea that people do it to make large sums of money is fundamentally incorrect for two reasons.
One because the amount of money you get for foster care is basically cost of living money rather than money that you can actually use to turn a large profit, and secondly because of the idea of opportunity cost.
Even if you're making a profit off a child, the amount of time that goes into raising a child when you are not currently working for your own children is massive.
If you were to take a job instead of trying to raise a child then you would get so much more money than the foster care system clearly demonstrating that those within the foster care system actually have a large heart and want to help children.
Now my first argument is the idea of cost.
Quite simply, dollar per dollar, foster care is considerably more efficient and helpful to children.
Although it may seem abusive to put many children in a room, a dormitory with bunk beds where essentially forty kids are to a large scale room, we would say that the costs generally means that you can put money in other services instead of foster care.
The money you save on say giving every single child an individual room can be put towards their food,clothing, and education.
We would say if you were to invest this into expanding orphanages massively, you would give them better infrastructure and maybe better clothes on occasion, but food would have to be cut, education have to be cut, summer programs would have to be cut such that children would be considerably worse off in the long term.
They would not be as educated or socialized as they are within the foster care system.
My second argument is that this sort of noncommittal home is good for two reasons.
First foster parents typically have massive amounts of experience.
They work with kids from all levels of society, they understand those children who are naturally gifted, they also understand kids are troubled by the fact that they are orphans.
They can work the best with these children rather than orphanages who typically employ individuals who work with very small children.
Secondly though, we think the option to actually put a kid in foster care is incredibly important.
Orphanages typically only accept children under the about the age of ten.
Foster care actually accepts children all the way up to the like being a teenager.
This is sort of the idea with shelters.
We'd say that if there is if you were take on a massive obligation and then cannot release your child into a effective system that doesn't mean you simply won't release the child, that just means I'll put them out onto the street.
Having these sort of foster care systems ensures that children from all walks of life will always have a place to go.
For this reason we should not abolish foster care.