We should abandon social media.
Although it attempts to bring us closer together, all that social media has done is pushed us further apart.
It has released replaced genuine interaction with a form of interaction which is shallow and in very few cases meaningful.
Furthermore it has allowed us to fall into echo chambers engaging with individuals who believe with in in what we are saying rather than a diversity of ideas which was more common in the past.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that social media should itself be abandoned, that all individuals who use social media platforms should abandon it.
My first argument is that social media supplants real interaction.
Unfortunately, social media has replaced many common institutions where individuals would go to meet one another.
Community events, which bring individuals together for dances and movie viewing and other such services, have fallen out of vogue.
Furthermore, community governments which would used to put on these kind of events no longer have support from the people to actually engage with these sort of interactions.
This is in large part because social media has made it so individuals can get their fill of interaction offline however this interaction is very rarely meaningful.
Why is this the case?
First, it is never long term or nuanced instead of being able to engage with a variety of ideas and beliefs individuals can only engage with snippets that individuals post online, their immediate thoughts rather than their genuine reactions and beliefs about certain subjects.
This is problematic, as it makes it so individuals are inherently less interested, less stimulated, and less prepared to engage with one another when they do have to interact.
Without real interaction we think that individuals are far more likely to be less happy and are far less likely to achieve their conceptions of the good life.
My second argument is that social media inherently leads to echo chambers.
Individuals curate their own pages and curate their own community which makes it so they are unlikely to engage with individuals outside of their own belief system.
By consistently have someone posting ideas that are contrary to my beliefs even if they are true or even if they deserve some consideration, I will remove them because they are antagonistic.
This is inherently problematic as individuals who are on the left or the right are far less likely to engage with one another than they would in the real world, where you do not have immediate access to someone's political beliefs until you've established their morality and individuality which prevents you from inherently villainizing them or pushing them away.
This echo chamber has led to greater extremism on the left and right, as left wing individuals do not have a different ideology to counter veil their interests and right wing individuals continually push new sources which inherently villainize the left.
This is problematic as it will always leads to stratification in our society.
We see this in the status quo, where politicians are elected not because of their own ideas or beliefs but because they promised to slight the other side due to the inherent distance between both sides.
My third argument is about privacy.
Social media sites have largely reduced our total amount to privacy.
First it's reduced our expectation of privacy as we're not unhappy that someone is watching us on a camera but actually unhappy because we are not being watched.
We expect individuals to intercede in our privacy, we expect them to continually monitor us through our posts.
This is problematic as it makes it so it's far more easy to have these kinds of laws and policies on the government level which violate our right to privacy.
Furthermore the social media sites regularly sell information and sell access to people's pages without their due consideration or their understanding, reducing the total amount to privacy and the ability for them to engage in the world without having their rights be violated.
For this reason we should abandon social media.