We should increase fuel taxes.
Fuel taxes are an important tool for funding our government but they also disincentivize problematic behavior.
We think that taxes are largely indistinguishable in terms of their revenue effect.
If I am making ten billion dollars from taxing cups or forks, it really doesn't matter.
However, if I incentivize the purchase or the aversion to a particular product, we can actually change our society using taxes.
This is the theory behind fuel taxes: because the consumption of fuel is largely negative for our society, we should introduce a fuel tax.
My first argument is that fuels have negative externalities when they're consumed.
When we look at an average purchase, if I have a fork and I sell the fork to another person, the ultimate effect on society doesn't really change.
They got a fork, I got some money.
There aren't really externalities to that purchase.
However, if I purchase fuel from someone else, there's still the exchange in dollars, however, once I burn that fuel, I am then costing everyone else in society due to the smog I produce and the ultimate health effects of that smog.
Negative externalities should be accounted for in the price.
We should always base price on the ultimate effect of that good.
If a good is incredibly harmful to the whole of the population, it should be incredibly expensive to use, and the price of that good should be used to subsidize consumption of other things and the well-being of the whole of society.
By taxing fuel, we decrease its consumption which is generally good, as I'll discuss later, but also approximate the price of the societal effect of that good.
This means that consumption will largely be reflective of how fuel affects our society and, as such, we think there'll be optimal results in the market.
My second argument is about alternative energy research.
When fuel prices increase, the demand for alternative energy also increases.
This is due to the substitution effect.
When a the price of a good increases, the demand for other goods also increase.
By increasing alternative energy research, we can substitute away fossil fuels.
This will allow us to have a cleaner environment, it will allow us to prevent global warming to a meaningful extent, and it will decrease the price of fuel.
Once solar panels, hydroelectric power, and wind power is widely adopted, the price of producing an additional watt of electricity will decrease drastically.
This is good for a few reasons.
First, we think it will allow individuals to innovate more effectively.
If the price of storage is less expensive because electricity is cheap, I can innovate more in cloud devices.
If the price of machinery costs less because it doesn't cost much to run it, I can innovate in production.
Either way, we increase the innovation in our society while also decreasing global warming.
My third and final argument is that we will lower our foreign dependency on oil.
When particular states have a monopoly or a near-monopoly on oil, the states which purchase from them have very little autonomy.
If a state has an oil embargo against them, their citizens will essentially be left without any form of transportation, and without transportation, the cost of all goods increase.
By lowering our foreign dependency on other forms of oil, by decreasing our reliance on oil, we will increase the autonomy of states.
We think, then, they will act more appropriately towards their own citizens and be more reflective of their citizens goals and ideologies.
For this reason, we should increase fuel taxes.