I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban human cloning.
Human cloning is essential for the long term survival of the human race.
Not only to ensure that certain individuals have the correct organs, but in the variety of cases it can be incredibly important to allow individuals to have children as well.
Banning human cloning outright is an extreme and downright dangerous move that ought not be accepted.
I have two arguments.
First, about spillover technology and second, about how this will help transplants better but first an overview.
I want to address what this actually does because we would say that a ban is the last resort of government.
Bans are only acceptable when there is no other alternative.
When regulations cannot work because of black markets or a variety of other circumstances, we would say that regulation is incredibly easy in this case.
The vast majority of labs depend on public funding.
At that point, they consent to government searches and government regulation which would prevent them from doing a legal procedures.
Additionally, labs do not exist in a black market sphere.
We would say that the vast majority of labs already consent to a variety of government regulation so putting more regulation on top of this, does a little too actually means that they will always follow this regulation.
Finally, almost every single lab is subject to an ethics board or a board which does similar reviews and at that point when we put laws in place, the ethics board will ensure that the labs follow these laws and as such, we think that regulation is easy.
At this point we can prevent them from torturing fetuses, from torturing human babies, from torturing disabled or failed experiments, and simply classify them as human.
Quite simply, there is no distinction in the law in the status quo which differentiates between a cloned child and a non-cloned child and at the point where torturing them would be against the law, would say that scientists are already staying on the side of caution and not harming these clones in any particular way.
Two arguments though about how human cloning can be even more important than the initial technology that we get from it.
First is a spillover tech.
When there is investment in the scientific arena, what we generally see is a lot of technology which affects other spheres as well.
The same technology which would create an entire human will be incredibly important for understanding how best to grow organs.
If we want to save thousands and thousands of lives, the people who die from organ failure every year, we must have the sort of technology to learn more about how best to grow organs.
Additionally, cloning promises considerable progress in the field of fertilization.
We would say that individuals who are infertile or who would otherwise like to have a child but cannot, probably deserve to have a child and when we increase technology in this field we allow them to access their rights and self-actualized in the best way possible.
Now my second argument is about how there'll be more successful transplants.
The current regulation is typically not to grow humans which have a brain, which are sentient and emotional.
At that point, if the only arguments which my opponent addresses are ones in which we have full humans with emotions and the entire range of feelings, they have already lost the round because they're tilting at windmills.
They're not regulating anything.
If they're also banning bodies without brains which do occur in labs sometimes, we would say that this is also a bad thing.
The best way to get organs which are effective in transplants is to have the a body which is as close to the recipient as possible.
Growing a body without a brain is generally the same as just growing a kidney in a jar.
At that point, we see no additional harms from it and all that this technology does is improve the rate of transplant success.
As such, we should not ban human cloning.