We should further exploit small modular reactors.
Small modular reactors are nuclear reactors which we can essentially put in different places very easily because they're small and easily rebuildable.
The only reason that they are not used in the status quo is because the upfront capital to get them going is fairly large.
This means that if we jump start a small modular reactor economy or otherwise get the ball rolling in terms of using it, then they will become an incredibly important tool for a variety of individuals.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that western liberal democracies invest substantially into small modular reactors.
We're not going to fiat any further policies, because we believe that markets and individuals can best determine how to use this resource after it has been created.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first on access.
Small modular reactors get their primary benefits from being transportable and usable in a rural or otherwise uninhabited areas.
We believe that this can be used in areas which have historically been poor and have historically had high power costs due to the fact they have not had the initial capital necessary to build large scale nuclear power or even large scale traditional power plants.
This will allow poor individuals to rise out of poverty, to essentially put electricity into their homes and businesses considerably easier and considerably cheaper as we use these small modular reactors.
This will alleviate poverty in the global south to a massive degree and decrease death as well.
The ability to be able to see at night, the ability to prevent crime, is dependent on things like electricity.
But furthermore, access to hospitals that are nearby, access to basic cleaning products, also require electricity.
As such this will allow us to actually empower individuals in a very meaningful way.
Secondly though we believe this will decrease the usage of problematic reactors in other areas.
This leads to my second argument about global warming.
Global warming is a massive issue in the status quo insofar as fossil fuels are used to a horrific degree and release massive amounts of CO two.
We believe that small modular reactors will reduce our usage of fossil fuels for two reasons: first it is generally a easy and cheaper replacement.
This means that the areas that use small modular reactors will have no incentive to build fossil fuels, given that this will be a cheaper option.
But secondly they will no longer need to build build massive power plants simply to power small towns.
This is important because small modular reactors are generally safer, cheaper, and far more clean.
We need to fight global warming as fast as possible and in as many ways possible in order to prevent the existential destruction of mankind.
As time goes on the ice caps melt, individuals lose their homes, more industry pours out pollution and eventually the human race will be destroyed.
If we want to prevent this, if we even want prevent the short term harms like destruction of small fishing villages and coral reefs, we must start to institute things like small modular reactors around the world.
This brings me to my third argument, about the energy costs and energy efficiency of this kind of policy.
First, small modular reactors and nuclear power writ large is incredibly cheap in comparison to fossil fuels.
This means that individuals who before had to pay an incredibly high premium to get energy, will now be able to access it for pennies on the dollar.
This will increase their economic efficiency and the innovation which comes in this area, improving all people's quality of life.
But secondly this'll make it so countries which implement small modular reactors will have more autonomy and sovereignty insofar as they don't need to depend on other countries resource extraction to power their own infrastructure.
As such, we should further exploit small modular reactors.