I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon the presidential system.
The presidential system is the backbone of our democracy.
Not only do we think it's intrinsically valuable based on the ways in which it has contributed to the growth of our nation, we also think that removing a fundamental system would likely lead to upheaval and create a massive amount of chaos both in civil society and in the private sphere as well.
Ultimately abandoning the presidential system for a parliamentary system would sow fear and discord while alternately catering to the worst sections of our population.
With that in mind, I have three arguments but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent talks at length about how the presidential system tends towards authoritarianism.
He lists things like the fact that presidents can wage war without the congress's approval, how they can veto bills, but there's no real connection here to authoritarianism.
Each part of our government has checks and balances which guarantee that other parts of the government cannot do whatever they want.
It essentially stopgaps which ensure the government is actually balanced between the variety of branches.
Besides the idea that the government can declare war, which first and foremost is false, we think the government has to get congressional approval before declares war, we think each of the powers which my opponent lists are ones that limit presidential power rather than expand it.
This is the opposite of authoritarianism.
It ensures that these presidents are actually bound by the rules of logic and democracy.
Not only that, there's never actually a link that's painted by my opponent to authoritarianism.
Simply listing the powers of an organization does not actually prove that they are authoritarian.
You must show how these powers are unimpeachable, which fundamentally the president is not, and how those powers will always trump other organizations.
My first argument for why the parliamentary system is not as preferable as a presidential system then is that fringe parties are empowered.
In our system we have two parties.
This is probably not the best state of affairs but with hundreds of parties you get incredibly problematic parties.
We think that the right and the left will split up but on the far right and the far left there are incredibly problematic ideologies which are spouted as though they're gospel.
We think on the left you're likely to find parties which in certain cases are trans-exclusionary feminists which will ultimately try to diminish the capacity for anyone who is seen as other in their group or might otherwise be attacking femininity, they'll attempt to strip those rights.
On the far right you're far more likely to find actively racist groups, actively anti-semitic groups who ultimately attempt to undermine the ability for people of color to actually gain power in this country.
Even though these groups might not get all the votes, we think that they have strong appeals in particular bastions of our country which allow them to grab some seats.
After getting a few seats it's a stone's throw away to coalition's which are fundamental to parliamentary systems.
The only way in which any party can get real power is either by getting all of the votes or a majority of the votes, which simply does not happen, or by forming coalitions usually with fringe parties ultimately meaning that fringe policies will be passed which will undermine the ability for certain people to get power in our country.
My second argument though, is about upheaval.
We think that the united states is used to a certain system.
Removing it outright will likely make people angry.
We think that republicans will see it as a response to president trump and largely be both offended and angry believing that the democrats are attempting to use the political system to undermine the will popular will of the people.
The general population will think that the government has gone mad, abandoning our system for one more popular in europe.
Either way it will make people far less happy, decrease the stability of our nation, and as such decrease investment and economic advancement.
For this reason, we should not abandon the presidential system.