I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
Embryonic stem cell research is a pipe dream.
It's the same sort of thing as artificial intelligence replacing all jobs and creating utopia.
It's the same sort of thing as saying that virtual reality will pull us into worlds where we have total control and feel no pain.
It is a result of science fiction telling us that these results will always be incredible and they'll help us fix literally everything.
The problem in this debate is that my opponent falls into these tropes.
He refuses to acknowledge the reality where stem cell research is simply ineffective in ensuring that individuals get cures quickly and effectively.
This leads me to my two main points, but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent talks about how this will improve the ability to cure people's diseases.
This is simply untrue for a few reasons.
First, we think that stem cell research is largely misunderstood.
Sure, if we subsidize stem cell research and and actually pay more to understand it, we might learn a few things about curing things.
The problem is is that for many people, they don't have access to this kind of technology.
And even if they did decrease the price, even if they made it far more accessible, we think it doesn't actually solve a lot of things: STDs, viruses, bacteria.
It may solve one or two people's ability to have some nerves in their hand.
If you got a a really vicious burn, maybe you'll be able to feel in your finger again, but this is largely unlikely.
And even if it were true, we think it's not worth the millions of dollars that would go into it.
As a result, we think that the ability to cure disease with stem cells is largely unlikely.
It would almost certainly be used only for niche cures, for niche issues, and be incredibly impractical to apply.
This leads me to my second argument, the idea of costs.
This is where my opponent really loses the debate, because we think the really problematic thing is that the costs that result as come from stem cell research are incredibly prohibitive.
It requires people being able to take a lot of time off work and being able to sit still for large periods of time.
It requires surgery done by incredibly talented technicians.
Even if we put research into it, this would still be true.
This will always cost a prohibitive amount of money.
Compare this to drugs, compare this to simple medical procedures, and the result is clear.
This will be a prohibitively expensive form of healing and as such, it will only belong to the wealthiest individuals.
This leads me to my first argument, the idea of market distortion.
What my opponent really doesn't get in this debate is that there's a massive incentive to cure disease in the status quo.
I'm the first one to cure cancer.
I'm the first one to cure an STD.
I'm going to make so much money by patenting that cure and selling it to the world.
But people don't pursue stem cell research actively, because they understand that stem cells don't actually promise very much.
The sort of market distortion is incredibly clear.
We think that the markets are just decided that stem cell research simply isn't worth it.
They're putting more money into it, sure.
People might put more time into stem cell research simply because it's a cheap option which has very little downside because guess what?
The government's paying for it all, but we think the total improvement to society isn't actually any better.
That is to say, people are less likely to find a cure, simply jump into it as a result of the fact that it's low risk, which is only better for their bottom lines and not better for society.
This leads me to my second argument, the idea of focus discretion distortion.
We think that the really problematic thing here is that individuals will waste a lot of time on going towards stem cell research, because this sort of time is fungible.
The same people who do stem cell research also do other pharmaceutical trials, also try a variety of other cures which we think are essential to improving people's quality of life.
The total access to medication will decrease and the total health care industry as a whole will become more expensive and less effective for a huge portion of the population.
For this reason, we should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.