We should adopt libertarianism.
Libertarianism is the only logically consistent form of government.
It is the only one which demands limited government in both the social and economic spheres and the entire society is better for it when it is adopted.
Libertarianism allows individuals to be as free as possible and to associate however they see fit.
It best fulfills the obligations set forth in the constitution while allowing individuals to flourish.
With that in mind, we would support the following model that all states adopt a libertarian ideology where they only step in where there is essentially rights violations against individuals that is the say the case of murder, the case of theft.
So to provide these essential protections essential protections in terms of fire and ambulances, essentially facilitative rights and fundamental rights are the only ones respected in libertarian governments.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea.
First is on efficiency.
We believe that a planned economy will always be less efficient than an economy defined by individuals who are acting freely.
Is impossible for government bureaucrats and economists to determine the will and needs of all individuals.
While a planned economy might have a higher GDP or production rate, it will never actually produce the items which individuals most want.
That the production rate is half as much but individuals are actually accessing what they want and when they want it, then we think that individual's quality of life is better.
It is impossible to measure individual's happiness simply through numbers.
Unfortunately though, a planned economy will always maximize these numbers rather than engaging with individual's conception of the good life.
Second though, we think that there's inherent overhead to government bureaucracy.
When I have to pay economists to plan the economy, when I have to pay managers to guarantee that their plan is fulfilled in the best way possible and when I have to pay information gathering individuals to actually create a bureaucracy, I will always waste huge amounts of money that is completely unnecessary.
The best way for the marketplace of ideas to actually flourish is for all individuals to bring their unique information to the table through market transactions and ensure that they can actually engage with one another in the most free way possible.
Thirdly though, we think that there's an inherent leaky bucket to wealth transfers and government policy in the economic sphere.
Why is this the case?
When I need to transfer say ten thousand dollars from a wealthy individual to a poor person it will always cost a certain amount of money for the bureaucracy to do this.
It will also cost money in so far as governments define how this money is spent, and use it in a particular way which restricts individual's ability to spend it how they see fit.
These plans and restrictions cost money which generally reduce the total amount of efficiency.
If I'm transferring massive swaths of money but losing some of it to devoid essentially with no true economic gain from it, then all that I am doing is reducing the total amount of wealth that belongs to the people and to society writ large.
My second argument though, is about freedom and why it is inherently good.
We think that the government is far more likely to oppress people than private organizations.
The government has a monopoly on violence and a monopoly on life saving technology like the police and fire departments and ambulances.
Is impossible to truly take these away, as it will have more meaningful harms and as such the government can decide when it wants to restrict these kinds of rights or use monopoly on force meaning that this will inherently lead to oppressive policies when problematic governments come into power.
We believe that individual's vote should count but my livelihood and my life itself should not depend on another person's vote as such, we should adopt libertarianism.