I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase energy conservation.
In the abstract, energy conservation is a noble goal.
Trying to save energy, trying to harm the environment less is probably a good thing.
However, energy conservation isn't happening, simply because it's not really accessible for most individuals and most corporations.
The constant drive to compete means that companies need to spend more money.
Innovation requires the increased use of energy.
If we had unlimited energy, we'd be able to do essentially anything we want.
In the same vein, the the more we decrease our energy usage, more limited we are in our options.
Not only are we limited in what we want to do, we're limited in what we want to consume and how we want to consume it.
With that in mind, I have two arguments why limiting energy conservation, excuse me, energy usage is not an effective use of our time or energy.
First is innovation.
We think that small startups have a myriad of costs.
Particularly new startups, and technology, and engineering, they have massive data requirements.
They need to run servers.
They need to run computers.
They need to run huge amounts of technology which require lots of energy.
These are the sort of companies that provide us some of our greatest innovation.
So things like GPS, radar, the internet, all came from companies who were willing to spend lots of money on energy and try lots of new things which required more energy.
If we were to try to increase energy conservation, we think the result of energy is that energy would increase in its price.
This is fairly clear as individuals would simply have less energy to buy.
They would be required to use more energy-conscious tactics and likely would be taxed on their energy, at least somewhat.
The result, then, is that many of these companies simply could not exist.
Even if they could get the initial seed funding, even if they could convince people their idea might work, the inability to both pay workers and pay for technology means that so many more startups would fail.
The total amount of products that we have, the high quality of life that we enjoy, and the massive number of jobs that come from new startups and the innovation that they bring would disappear, and it its stead, we would have massive unemployment, widespread unhappiness and, ultimately, just a worse quality of life.
My second argument is cost.
Even if we do not lose small corporations to the scale I say, the increase in costs for all people is prohibitive.
I, as someone who lives alone in an apartment building which has lots of heat and lots of power coming from other sources, still pay about a hundred dollars a month in energy costs.
Increasing the amount of energy we can serve by increasing taxes or requiring companies or people to put in special technologies, would be incredibly expensive.
I would have to move to a cheaper area, farther away from my job, ultimately spending more money on gas, if I were to spend more money on energy.
This is true for many individuals.
We think that the result is that lots of companies would go out of business, not just the startups, but large companies too.
We think the average individual would massively suffer as, for many individuals, the inability to pay for energy means we can't live a modern quality of life.
If you can't pay your energy bills, you can't have a TV.
You can't have a phone charger.
You can't have a computer.
And the result is that people are put back into the stone age or, at the very least, like the nineteen fifties, where the total access to technology is vastly diminished.
We think that the decrease in quality of life means that increasing energy conservation is just an irresponsible and unrealistic goal.
For this reason, we should not increase energy conservation.