I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should abandon democracy.
There is no value without a democratic discourse on what is good.
There is no justice without common acceptance of social and cultural norms which we put into laws.
By robbing the people of a voice, by giving all the power to a monarch or oligarch, we do little more than destroy the fundamentals of a society and guarantee that the people have no rights against those who hold power against them.
With that in mind I have three arguments.
First off on on on how all values are idiosyncratic, second on the checks and balances available to democracies, and third about how the marketplace of ideas will always result in the best outcome.
But first, some brief rebuttal.
My opponents first argument is that they'll be no systemic change in democracy.
This is because figure heads will be seen as the problem rather than the system as a whole.
Two responses: first, we think that individuals commonly campaign on the idea they will change a corrupt system.
This means that you can elect politicians who will truly and meaningful reform the system.
If a politician gets eighty or percent or more of the vote, that is a mandate to rule and a mandate to change the political system in a way that is more beneficial to all people.
Democracy allows this.
Oligarchy does not.
But secondly under this, we would say that systemic change in oligarchies and monarchies isn't actually good.
Two reasons why: first, because the individuals who have the power and have the intelligence to overturn monarchs and oligarchs generally aren't good people themselves.
Most states in which a monarchy is overturned and replaced by another monarchy or another oligarchy see more violence and oppression as a result.
The reason why is because the best leader in wartime is very rarely the best leader in in one to lead the newly formed state.
As such it that commonly leads to strongman and violence against the population, which is unacceptable.
My opponent says there's no systemic change in democracy but never demonstrates how it exists in an oligarchy or monarchy.
Secondly, they talk about how in the status quo minorities can be more oppressed in democracies because of the tyranny of the majority.
They are arguing a-historically.
Because if you look at leaders throughout history, fascist leaders have used minorities a scapegoats to maintain their power.
We think that this demonstrates fairly clearly that these groups are far less likely to work with minorities than democracies.
Every vote counts and democracies.
And although the majority may be more easy to get and more easy to turn towards your will, we think that if you can get an entire minority vote and split the majority vote, you'll actually be a very powerful party.
In monarchies there's little reason to turn towards the minorities in the society, particularly if they've already been oppressed and do not have economic value and as such that's where you see the greatest oppression and violence.
Onto my three arguments: first off on how all values are idiosyncratic.
Values can only be determined through discourse between individuals.
There's no common acceptance on a single god or single truth to the universe.
As such, we must always take our values from our interactions with one another, which can only be articulated in a democracy.
My second argument is not checks and balances.
Democracies leave the potential for checks and balances while oligarchies and monopolies do not.
Checks and balances in democracies are a way to prevent oppression from coming forth and leading to oligarchy and monopoly.
In oligarchies and monopolies their only ways in which the leader can lose power, either decreasing efficiency or simply being overturned by the person in power.
As such you cannot have checks and balances in without democracy and this will always lead to fascism.
My third and final argument is about the marketplace of ideas.
Multiple people constructing ideas is always better than a centralized bureaucrat determining what is best for all people.
As such, democracy is clearly preferable and we should not abandon it.