We should ban organic foods.
The organic food movement is largely a result of misinformation and pseudo science.
A mixture of well meaning environmentalists and large corporations who are set to profit by creating a niche in the food market have pushed that information suggesting that organic food is preferable in every way to genetically modified food.
In fact the opposite is true.
While organic food has some unique characteristics which might make it good, genetically modified food is better at stopping disease, better at feeding large quantities of people, and can easily be made to be more tasty as well.
Because we believe that organic food is generally worse than inorganic food, we would say that all western liberal democracies should ban organic food in factory farming settings.
We believe organic food is justified when it is in a private setting.
This means that private actors can grow their own food ensuring its healthiness rather than large corporations slapping the organic label on things which are not genetically modified but use a variety a variety of other chemicals which would otherwise turn off environmentally conscious consumers.
Before I discuss why this before I discuss why this would be important, I want to discuss what this would actually look like.
First, organic food generally means that we are producing less food.
Every organic food farm at the most basic level will be less efficient than a genetically modified farm.
This is important because having large quantities of food generally means you can feed greater numbers of people.
Additionally though, organic food farms can cause cross contamination.
When individuals have large organic farms which are overrun with pests or diseases, inorganic foods, genetically modified foods, cannot stand up to them.
Although genetically modified foods can stop the initial push of a pest, say locusts, if an entire field is infested with locusts even inorganic farms are threatened.
This means that herd immunity, essentially herd immunity of fields, is threatened by organic food.
This has two problems.
First, it can lead to a food shortage.
There are many starving people around the world.
Even in america there are people who cannot afford their daily healthy meals.
But when looking to more poor and developing nations, the percentage of people who are starving is even greater.
If we have excess food donations can occur.
We see this in states like france where food that would otherwise be thrown out is donated by large wholesalers and large grocery stores.
Additionally though, huge portions of global aid is based on food aid.
Both unesco and US aid uses food aid to help people around the world.
This means that abandoning organic food can save lives.
Governments have an obligation to do this because they now must be cosmopolitan in nature.
Globalization is the main way in which many hegemons gain their power, particularly western liberal democracies.
And to fight global problems such as global warming and including hunger governments must be cosmopolitan.
Secondly though, the use of organic foods leads to greater land abuse.
It can lead to clear cutting and soil deterioration which leads to environmental destruction leading to even greater world problems.
For this reason we should ban organic foods.