We should abolish open primaries.
Open primaries are intuitively good.
They allow all individuals to articulate themselves, even from the earliest stage, and guarantee that an individual party can fill the best candidate for the general election by gaining support from both sides of the aisle.
The issue is that open primaries also draw a number of saboteur votes, individuals who vote for the worst candidate from the other party in order to promote their own candidate and largely push for moderates, we waste resources on fighting an open primary.
With this in mind, we would propose a simple model: that the government require all parties to hold only closed primaries, they only allow individuals to vote in a primary if they belong to the party holding the primary or are themselves an independent.
We think that the party can then define policies within this framework.
That is to say, they can exclude moderates if they see fit, however, they cannot allow cardholding members of the other party to vote in their primaries.
Three reasons why this is a good idea: first, we think moderates are largely not the best choice.
Now why do open primaries push moderates?
Because individuals who can can vote from both sides of the aisle are far more likely to vote for the most watered-down person possible.
Find me moderates rather than someone who fights for my party or takes the party line, I'm far more likely to be an individual who is sort of milquetoast, that is to say, they have no real policies and no real way to push their agenda towards meaningful legislative ends.
We think that there's not a meaningful amount of choice either, as moderates do not allow individuals to articulate themselves on policy to a meaningful extent.
This brings me to my second argument which is about sabotage.
We think that, we saw this a lot in the twenty sixteen elections where, in open primaries, individuals tried to vote trump because they thought they were the weakest candidate.
On the other side of the aisle, many individuals voted bernie because they thought they were a weaker candidate.
We think that because politics is a zero-sum game because only a single individual can win, we are far more likely to see sabotage votes, that is to say, votes for the worst candidate possible, due to the fact that if the worst candidate wins from the other party, your candidate is almost certainly going to win when it comes to the general election.
Because we think that individuals do not have a meaningful ability to vote for the best candidate possible if the other side of the aisle is actively sabotaging their own efforts, we would say that open primaries should be abolished.
Now my third and final argument is about wasted resources.
We think that information is not well-disseminated in an open primary.
Individuals are still far more likely to cater to their own base in terms of their information dissemination because at the end of the day, those are the individuals who are more likely to vote in the open primary.
Unfortunately, that means all other people do not have access to meaningful information.
This is incredibly problematic as if individuals do not understand the policy positions of each candidate and do not understand the steps they will take once in office, they're essentially throwing their vote away blindly.
It largely means that individuals do not have the have access to requisite information to have a meaningful impact on democracy and to ensure that government is accountable for their actions.
Similarly, we think that this increases the total amount of campaigning necessary before the general election.
The general election is the most important election as it ultimately decides who is an office, yet individuals will have to waste considerably more resources in an open primary, putting them at a disadvantage behind the candidate from the other side, who did not engage in an open primary.
Ultimately, by having an open primary, we decrease total choice as moderates do not have meaningful policy positions, we largely open parties to sabotage, and we waste numerous amounts of resources.
For this reason, we should abolish open primaries.