I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish intelligence tests.
Although intelligence tests aren't perfect, they do provide useful metrics to evaluate teachers and other instructors which will allow for more efficient allocations of resources.
Furthermore, given the way that intelligence tests are actually used, it is incredibly unlikely that many of the harms which my opponents discuss will actually come about.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first some brief extraneous rebuttal.
Unless my opponent wants to ban every single form of testing which they never say or even implicitly suggest throughout their speech, none of their benefits can be actualized.
What we mean by this is that things like high scores promoting laziness and low scores making people have low self-esteem will exist as long as they're evaluations of people skills.
This means that if you have papers, if you have presentations, people will always make fun of each other intelligence hierarchy will always exist, particularly among young individuals who want to prove that they're smarter than their peers.
There will always be these kinds of tests and metrics because they are the very foundation in which modern education is based upon and as such none of their arguments are actually relevant to the round.
With that, two arguments for why intelligence tests can actually be used effectively.
First off on vetting.
Now how are intelligence tests actually used outside of the school system?
They are used for things like insuring people have basic information about the job, or basic information about whatever they're trying to do, and for things like computer science or other jobs which have entrance exams.
They allow employers to understand the skills in which their employees have.
Now these intelligence tests aren't the sort of holistic test which tests you on calculus, ancient literature, and a variety of other subjects.
They test you on the specific job that you are trying to achieve.
You would say that these kinds of tests are essential, we don't want an engineer who doesn't understand how bridges work.
We don't want a computer scientist who cannot even write a single line of code.
Using these kinds of intelligence tests allows us to ensure that individuals actually deserve the place that they're they are in.
Furthermore, even if you buy that intelligence tests are not very useful, there was such a high supply of labor in these kinds of jobs that intelligence tests can be used efficiently.
That is to say even if intelligence test push some people out, there is such a high demand that forcing people to continue to study and work hard to pass the test will create better workers and will never actually make it so the employer cannot find someone to fill the job.
While intelligence tests do not tell the entire story, they do allow employers to find the sort of basic information which is essential for them to actually have an effective business.
Now my second argument is the idea of aggregation.
Now if we're talking about the school system, intelligence tests are not used that often to determine someone's grades or how someone is going to actually perform in the school system.
Standardized tests are typically used as metrics to determine whether the school system as a whole has failed a particular student.
This can be done in two different ways.
First standardized tests can be done to determine if increased funding must go to an area to help poor students.
We think this is incredibly important because in the areas where there is un equal levels of education, this kind of data aggregation through intelligence tests can allow the federal government to actually improve the schooling system in these sort of areas.
Now when they are used on the individual level, these kinds of intelligence tests allow us to put students in remedial classes when they would not otherwise be in those sort of classes.
If you can prove unequivocally that a student does not understand their grade level's reading, writing, or math system you could put them a grade back to actually teach them the levels that they need to know.
Skipping subjects completely will derail individuals education.
So intelligence tests can actually be important for putting people back on the right track and teaching them effectively.
For this reason, we should not abolish intelligence tests.