A complicated system of taxation is far more likely to have legal loopholes, and ways in which the wealthy can avoid taxes, than one which is simple and flat.
Because progressive taxation inherently requires complicated mechanisms, to ensure that the wealthy are paying more than the poor, we believe that we should end progressive taxation.
The model and the alternative we will provide is that a flat tax will be put in place, where all individuals pay the same portion of their income to the federal government, rather than paying a progressive tax system, in which people who make less money, pay less money.
We have two arguments to support this motion, first, we believe that simplicity is key.
Evasion and loopholes in tax code occur because of complicated taxation.
A flat tax, which says every single person pays the same amount, cannot be evaded.
Recognize, that the evasion costs the government and the citizens by by extension billions of dollars each year.
Further, the only individuals who can actually evade taxes are the wealthy.
Although there are a variety of tax codes, which protect individuals and even provide relief for individuals who are poor, it is unlikely they will, first, be aware of those taxes, but second, be able to pay someone to actually complete their taxes for them.
As such, evasion is only a tool for the wealthiest individuals, who should be paying the most tax money, because they get the most benefit out of society, and probably have a reciprocal obligation to all the people who buy their goods, and support them, and have made them into the wealthy person they are today.
But finally, with a simple and flat tax, the what happens is that individuals can file their taxes themselves, and will largely not have to rely on the dead weight loss that occurs from tax filing.
Accountants do not provide anything for the economy.
We created an artificial demand, by creating a system so bureaucratically incompetent and complicated, that average individuals cannot solve it themselves.
Individuals decide either to get lackluster tax returns, or pay someone, and essentially further expand this dead weight loss.
A simple flat tax model will allow all individuals to file their taxes themselves, and ensure that all individuals pay a fair amount of their taxes.
But the second argument, we'd like to make, is that this will be a better system, wherein we can better target the needs within society.
Starting from the bottom, and changing the tax system, can lead to huge harms over all.
We believe that individuals will have less of aversion to gaining money, in a system where we provide more benefits, rather than tax breaks to the poor.
We believe that in the status quo, the marginal rate of taxation, where there are tears, as people make more money, disincentivizes individuals from pursuing higher paying jobs, which would create more burdens upon them.
However, if we transfer the system from one which provides tax breaks for the poor, to provide greater social benefits for the poor, we increase the incentive for people to continue working.
Although they might lose their social benefits, social benefits are inherently worse than money, given that they have less freedom to spend that money effectively, and more likely to be bound to spending that money on food and necessities.
As such, people in poverty are more likely to work to actually improve their lot, rather than suffering from this marginal rate of taxation.
If I can gain a thousand dollars of money I can use freely, but lose a thousand dollars with social benefits, I'm still more likely to go for that freedom, and as such the marginal rate of taxation decreases.
But finally, we think that this leads to our control in customisation.
It's hard to get the poorest people in society effective tax relief, and at the point we are charging them zero dollars in their tax money, it's difficult to provide them further tax breaks.
As such, we would say that we should provide them direct social benefits, which we can target more effectively.
They're far more likely to reach them, as they will not need to know complicated bureaucratic codes to access it.
Thank you.