We should ban strip clubs.
Strip clubs are little more than dens of sin where men can objectify women to an incredibly unfortunate extent.
Even when the genders are flipped, we largely see wealthier individuals ogling and objectifying poor people which we think is fundamentally unacceptable.
Ultimately objectification oppression will always occur among the strong to the weak and the fact that we have clear venues designated only to allow this kind of objectification to occur, is a fundamental failure of our democracy.
As such, we would support the following model: that in the united states all strip clubs that are primarily for viewership, exclusively for viewership, be outright banned.
We are agnostic on the use of strip clubs or strip polls for exercise.
We think when individuals are largely fully clothed and trying to do exercise on a pole, we think it's largely fine if this continues.
What we want to discuss is the use of strip clubs for viewership.
Three arguments for why they should be shut down.
First, on government obligation.
It is essential for the government to step in whenever the free market is unable to regulate any particular action.
We think that there's a market incentive for individuals to coerce poor women, coerce poor individuals into roles in strip club largely robbing them of their autonomy and forcing them to be an object in the eyes of those who they are entertaining.
It is impossible for individuals to meaningfully object in this regard.
Why?
First because we think that poor individuals when offered a decent wage are far more likely to take it.
When you have no ability to pay your rent and then you were offered a certain job, you think that you must take it immediately.
This is problematic first, because we think that individuals do not understand the risks involved in strip clubs but secondly, because individuals cannot conceptualize long term harms.
Strip clubs build incredibly few long term skills.
Even managing a fast food chain or even working at a fast food chain gives individuals more skills than working at a strip club.
As such, people are cornered into these jobs.
Companies will not stop coursing them and the government is the only actor who can prevent these harms from coming to these individuals.
My second argument is about objectification.
Objectification is largely the viewing of an individual as little more than a sexual object, as something without emotions, feelings, or intelligent thought.
We think that this is the entire purpose of the strip club.
They're based on the male gaze.
They're based on objectifying the dancers and seeing them as sexual objects to hoot, holler, and throw money at.
This is incredibly problematic.
These individuals served the people on the floor, they dance and entertain, they are not evaluated on their thoughts.
We think that this spills over into other areas and is largely problematic for individuals.
In the short run it we think that men are far more likely to leave strip clubs with conceded, bigoted, or sexist thoughts which they then apply to their co-workers and women in their lives largely disregarding their opinions and devaluing their contributions in essential fields.
In the long term, we think that the strip clubs and the strippers are also at incredible risk as individuals who see them as strippers are far less likely to hire them, are far less likely to have social stigma against them.
This largely disadvantages them for their entire lives.
My third argument it's about crime and violence.
Any area which attracts large amounts of drunk individuals, any area in which sexual assault and assault by bouncers sometimes even, is common is an area that we want to discourage.
We think that crime is more than the sum of each individual actor involved in it and when individuals with a propensity for violence join into the same place crime is more frequent and more violent than were they spread out.
As such, strip clubs should be banned as they are necessarily a a place in which violence and crime proliferates in an incredibly problematic way.
For this reason, we should ban strip clubs.