We should disband amnesty international.
Amnesty international while incredibly well meaning, generally does massive harm in the areas it attempts to operate.
Because it is a blunt instrument, because it rarely respects nuance, it ought not continue its operations.
With that in mind, we propose the following model: that amnesty international should immediately disband and all money that currently hold should go to other charities which at deems as reasonable and efficient.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first on corruption.
Inevitably when NGO's operate in corrupt states they empower corrupt regimes why is this the case?
First, amnesty international regularly engages with an active dialogue with these states.
In doing so it inherently legitimizes their actions and respects them as a sovereign respectable power.
A lot of these states are states where coups have occurred, where unjust elections have occurred and as such, as amnesty actually engages with these individuals as just and legitimate political actors, it simply empowers them within the international sphere to make proclamations, declarations, and states that other actions it's takes are generally just.
Additionally, even when it doesn't give this sort of respect to the states when it goes into the state, when it continues to patronize businesses that operate within the state and when it pays the bribes to get resources into the state and people out of the state, that money always goes to corrupt regimes.
This means that if it operates in a fascist area with the the money could easily be used to further repress rights.
We believe that charitable organizations should ultimately be for the good of all people.
The ends can never justify the means.
The reason that this is true with a charity for a couple reasons: first, because charities are made up of a group of individuals not always with the same world view.
This means that I might be part of a vegan organization but I also think that human rights are important.
So I would never say that we should imprison meat eaters outright because I believe that there is some sort of right to self governments organization.
We would say that unless someone can articulate in an objective sense why their cause is the objectively best cause, you must be concerned with creating overall justness, overall good, rather than simply fighting for one good and and causing a variety of harms along the way.
Furthermore, if amnesty international empowers corruption within the states it is far more likely that further harms will occur where it can then imprison other people by expanding its surveillance state and being unjust.
A lot of amnesty international's cases are when it operates in an area or someone has been prisoned for political speech and if the surveillance state expands, that becomes considerably easier.
Now my second argument is about how complicates conflict.
The best way in which these sort of conflicts can be negotiated is when they're between two powers that are seen as somewhat legitimate and with some amount of leverage against one another.
Amnesty international does not hold that kind of leverage.
It simply names and shames these organizations as such, it is likely to exacerbate the problem rather than solve it.
Once amnesty international has entered the stage and said you must release this prisoner a government is given two options: release the prisoner and be seen as a weak government willing to bend to foreign powers, or continue the course, considerably more likely, given that these governments are typically run by strong men, strong women, who do not want to be seen as weak on crime or a slave of foreign governments.
As such, amnesty international can operate in the area and only make the problem worse by creating it so there's no incentive for the government to actually release a prisoner.
My third argument is about capital punishment.
Capital punishment isn't always bad.
It is largely based on societal norms and when heinous crimes have occurred, sometimes capital punishment is the only way to guarantee they do not continue to occur.
It is a true deterrent against all action and guarantees that the state has some power in the long term.
While western states might always have a better action, fledgling states, state that recently undergone revolution, can use capital punishment to incredible ends.
As such, amnesty international's outright stance against capital punishment is not beneficial to world justice.
For this reason, we should disband amnesty international.