We should increase drug testing.
In the status quo, athletes are drug tested far less often than they should be.
Drug testing is an incredibly important tool for guaranteeing that individuals are not harmed as a result of these sports.
They do not have to ingest things simply to be competitive.
Additionally, it is important for simply for the fairness aspect of the sport.
Because we believe that the usage of drugs in sports do a little more than harm the athletes and harm the sport writ large, would support the following model: that more tests of performance enhancing drugs be used on athletes in all sections particularly in international competitions.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First off, on fairness.
For sports to be entertaining and for sports to actually have purpose behind them, they must have some semblance of fairness.
We would say that there are inherent unfairnesses as individuals are born with a particular set of skills or a particular set of attributes that may help them in sports.
However, the usage of performance enhancing drugs are particularly heinous for a few reasons.
First, we think it is unjust for any individual to ingest particular action or liquid chemicals simply to benefit them on the international stage as it gives the option to puts very important choices in the face of athletes which are ultimately harmful.
First, it can give them the option to leave the sport writ large or take the performance enhancing drug.
These are both toxic options and as such, fairness is incredibly important.
Secondly though, we believe that the uses of performance enhancing drugs generally just diminish the quality and honor of the sport as well.
This may not be important for things like major league baseball or the NBA but for things like the olympics it can cause a major geopolitical issues where particular groups are banned from the international sporting competitions.
As such, the increased checking of performance enhancing drugs will diminish their usage as it will lead to worse outcomes for anyone who takes performance enhancing drugs.
The second argument is regarding health.
Refer back to the toxic choice I referred to before.
Many individuals in a league where performance enhancing drugs are not actively tested for will generally choose to take them.
As such, they will suffer long term health harms as their muscles will collapse, as their bodies will collapse, against these incredibly toxic chemicals.
We believe it is fundamentally unjust for people who are given no option besides particularly as they are coerced through the sheer scale of the money to then be forced to take performance enhancing drugs.
By forcing individuals to hurt themselves as a result of this, they will ultimately be worse off in the long term.
My third argument is about how doubts and politicalization of performance enhancing drugs are incredibly problematic.
First off on doubts.
It is problematic that every time an athlete is put into a sports hall of fame, every time they hit a home run, there's an ability to for them to be challenged simply as a result of these performance enhancing drugs.
Their existence in the league are inherently toxic because individuals who did not ever take performance enhancing drugs could easily be harmed as a result of these kinds of things, could easily be blamed or accused of using performance enhancing drugs, harming their future, simply because of their prevalence in the league.
Secondly though, the politicalization of performance enhancing drugs, the fact that particular athletes are checked more than others is incredibly problematic and can be solved by just increasing the checkage of all athletes.
Now why do we think that checking people for performance enhancing drugs will reduce their usage?
First, it reduces any political or not political strategic incentive to use them as being caught will remove you from play for far longer than they will ever benefit you.
Second, the health harms are increased massively as strategic harms benefits are reduced.
As such, we should increase drug testing in sports.