Surrogacy should be banned.
Surrogacy has been used as a tool for quite some time.
It has largely been a substitute for things like in vitro fertilization and adoption, but we think that both of these options are far more effective and helpful helpful for the world as a whole.
Because we think that surrogacy provides no unique benefits but provides numerous unique harms, we support the following model: that around the world surrogacy should be banned.
Regardless of whether it's paid for or absolutely voluntary and without any financial compensation, we think that surrogacy should just not be allowed.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, we think that surrogacy is inherently coercive.
When surrogacy is paid for, individuals are essentially given the choice of helping someone who's willing to pay tens of thousands of dollars or getting an education, but usually working in squalor.
The vast majority of the planet is below the poverty line in the united states and lives on incredibly little money every day.
As such, when western actors come in and say, " if you hold our baby, we will pay you a lot of money, " most people are coerced to do this.
However, this comes at the cost of an effective education.
It also comes at the cost of human capital development that would come through work and the opportunity to build a supportive network.
In many areas, surrogacy is seen as a taboo subject.
Getting pregnant for someone else's benefit is incredibly frowned upon.
As such, we think that this also means that these individuals cannot access an effective support network and are essentially left without any meaningful understanding of the harms that are being done against them.
This is particularly problematic because entering into a surrogacy contract is something you cannot consent out of for at least nine months.
You can either internalize the harms of holding this child for this long and, as such, not get paid, or you wait nine months without any support.
However, even when surrogacy is not paid for, we also think it's coercive.
It's incredibly difficult to look a friend or family member in the eye and tell them that you're not going to help them conceive a child.
What we think the result of this is is that women are pushed toward surrogacy, even without a meaningful amount of consent, and the only way in which we can truly regulate this sort of coercion is an outright ban.
My second argument is that this instrumentalizes women.
At the end of the day, surrogacy is simply using a woman in the same way that we would use a kiln: you put a product in and you take the product out once it's done.
This is profoundly objectifying and ultimately reduces a woman to a tool to be used by other individuals.
We think that this is, at the root of it, a patriarchal idea.
It's an idea that has continued to oppress women throughout time.
The objectification of women has allowed for men to press incredibly oppressive policies which restrict women's rights to autonomy and free speech while also giving incredible power to men around women, as women are seen of objects of the men.
This is incredibly problematic and surrogacy should be banned in an attempt to combat these sort of ideals and norms.
My third argument is that there are profoundly preferable alternatives.
If there were no children available for parents, surrogacy might be a good idea, but we think that in vitro fertilization is almost always better.
It's more likely to have a healthy child, one in which scientists can try a number of embryos and a number of sperm in order to guarantee that the child is meaningful healthy and without any defects.
It also does not instrumentalize women in this problematic way and is usually cheaper than paid surrogacy.
Additionally, though, we think that adoption is ten times better than either option.
The ability to give a loving home to a child who has been denied one is incredibly powerful.
This is far more likely to bring them out of cycles of poverty and bring happiness into the lives of children and adults alike.
For this reason, surrogacy should be banned.