We should end international aid.
International aid creates a toxic relationship between the giving nation and the receiving nation.
Although it aims to improve international stability and increase the domestic well being of the receiving states, it largely props up corrupt governments and ultimately fails both nations.
Because of this we support the following model: that the united states federal government should immediately end international aid to all states.
Regardless of whether this aid is in the form of weapons, infrastructure development or food, we think it will always create a toxic relationship rather than a positive one.
With that in mind we have two arguments: first on the obligation of states.
International aid cannot be just because it gives money that belongs to the people to citizens of another state.
We believe that the obligation of states is first and foremost to its own citizens and that this obligation is tantamount and above all others.
Why is this the case?
Four reasons: first due to the social contract.
We think the primary philosophy which underlies any government, which guarantees that the people sort of the government and that the government serves the people, is a social contract.
It states that all individuals, either implicitly or explicitly, signed a social contract which necessarily binds them to the actions of one another.
We believe that the social contract is only signed by citizens.
It is impossible for other individuals to take the implicit actions which necessarily sign the social contract.
Things like voting, things like using state welfare, things like necessarily creating a system which empowers your neighbors and community.
As such we believe that the social contract means the government can only serve the people and no other individuals.
The second reason is the principles of democracy.
We believe that when a state represents individuals from another state rather than its own citizens it necessarily short changes its citizens.
Recognize that every single individual who is co-opted into a democracy necessarily takes power against other from other individuals.
If the population size of a state doubles, each individual effectively has half a vote compared to what they had before.
They can influence politics half as much.
We believe that when you increase the scope of a democracy, increase the number of individuals who are receiving and necessarily commenting on aid, you necessarily short change your own citizens and make it so they have less democratic power.
The third reason is efficiency.
Recognize that the best states for giving international aid are those which have solved all of their own problems.
United states is miles and miles from solving its problems and as such we must deal with internal problems first to guarantee external efficiency.
Getting rid of international aid now will necessarily help all individuals into the future.
Fourth and finally is the idea of reciprocity.
Recognize that international aid is not taken away from the budgets of the wealthy.
They will always have special interests which guarantee they're represented in government.
This means that international aid short changes poor individuals.
This is necessarily problematic as we believe there is a reciprocal obligation of government to guarantee the poorest people have power and rights within the state.
Failing to uphold any of these obligations means the state acting unjustly and cannot take this kind of policy.
My second argument is the idea of dependency.
Recognize that when the state steps and and provides all food, provides all technical support, it destroys local industries which would otherwise provide those goods.
It is impossible to compete against free.
And when a large western state destroys the agricultural industry because they want to provide food, it puts all farmers out of business.
Instead we should allow the local economy to grow naturally and develop the needs and goods that the people want.
As such we should end international aid.