We should limit the right to self-defense.
Self-defense is a necessary right within an individual framework.
When individuals cannot strike back against those who hit them in the first place, they will face infinite harm, but if we do not limit self-defense, we let other individuals who are pose a real threat or posed only an optical threat to they themselves face infinite harm.
Because we think that proportional and meaningful self-defense is good but all other self-defense is bad, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government require individuals to run first when posed with a threat, to leave particular areas if they feel threatened, and to have called the police, and if they've exhausted both of those options, to have a proportional response to threats against them.
We will allow individuals to stay still or to take a few steps back to constitute running away, but we would generally require some harm to be taken first or a active weapon to be present for any response to actually occur.
What we mean by this is if someone is protesting in the park and someone approaches them and threatens to punch them, until the other person has raised their fist, nothing can be done.
Similarly, we would say that if they raised their fist, it would be unjust to then shoot them as it is necessarily not proportional.
Now, rather than individually argue this point, I want to ask a singular question: where do we get the right to self-defense and why is it only just if it is proportional and a last resort?
We think that the right to self-defense stems from the idea of harm minimization against culpable parties.
We think that harm to individuals who are trying to cause harm in the first place is okay, however, we think that that harm must be minimized as much as possible.
So, three reasons why this improves this sort of right.
First, we think that running away improves the ability to identify culpability.
If individuals see someone walking towards them or generally who may be following them and they stay still, they don't know if that person is just walking down their path or chasing them.
We think that running away, taking a different direction than you initially thought you would take allows you to confirm culpability.
In doing so, we minimize harm to non-culpable targets.
Secondly, though, we think that you can determine the extent of culpability by running first, and then responding proportionately.
We think that this, first, reduces your culpability, because if you strike back against someone who they themselves are unarmed or or who had no intent to harm you in the first place, they have similar access to self-defense and a right to self-defense, and then harm will happen to two parties who had no intention of hurting each other in the first place.
Similarly, we would say that it is only just for individuals to strike back if they themselves have been struck in the first place.
We think that it is important that these responses are equal.
It would be unjust if someone took a a dime from me that I wanted to spend myself, however, if I shot them in the back, it would be similarly unjust because I have then become culpable for a far more problematic action.
Third and finally, we think it's about minimizing total harm.
By acting proportionally and ensuring you run first, you will minimize harm against you and the aggressor.
We think the aggressor still has some rights toward security and life and as such, this must be protected.
The second way where we get the right to self-defense is how individuals stand in for the state when there's a direct and immediate harm.
We think that the this legal recognition of the right to self-defense provides individuals legal power to respond, but we must act under the similar assumptions of state power.
The same way in which you would condemn police officers who shot someone who is simply running away or shot someone who's only, say, stealing a newspaper, we think that individuals must they themselves understand that they're acting under the aegis of the state when they act legally to defend themselves, and we must ensure culpability to guarantee that all parties are justly served by the state.
For this reason, we should limit the right to self-defense.