I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon the BDS movement.
The boycott divest and sanction movement may have problematic members but every organization does.
Were you to look at jewish lobbying groups in the US, were you to look at the BDS, were you to look a black lives matter, if you were to look at literally any organization whether it's social justice, political, law based, it will always have bad people who are a member.
It is impossible to discount a group because a few members and it must be based on broad applications of their policy.
I believe my opponent has failed to demonstrate why the core principles of the BDS movement are insolvent and as such, we should not abandon it.
My opponent's first argument is that the BDS movement as anti-semitic and that it that is on the face enough to remove it.
I agree.
If the BDS movement was anti-semitic, that would be enough reason to abandon it.
A few issues: my opponent doesn't provide a logical standard for why BDS is anti-semitic except that it is pro palestine.
He says that it takes the palestinian line on every single issue.
The problem here is it doesn't take the hamas line.
It never justifies the murder of jewish civilians and also does not suggest that israel should be existentially destroyed.
This leads me to my first or my two points of rebuttal.
First, that the BDS movement isn't monolithic.
Yes, certain individuals who are part of the BDS movement may say hateful things but that is not justification enough to abandon the entire movement.
Every single movement critical of israel will also have the support of anti-semites.
This does not mean that israel should be free from all criticism possible and the BDS movement is an important tool for creating a discourse surrounding israel.
But secondly, it is unclear why the goals of palestine are inherently anti-semitic.
My opponent addresses the idea of right to return to work while palestinians haven't lived on that land for generations and as such, they shouldn't be able to go back to certain places.
It's largely unclear how the standard is applicable to palestinians and not the jewish people as well.
Much of the philosophy of of israel depends on the idea that this land belonged to people because of cultural and historical roots.
We believe that a symmetrical application of this policy is probably fair and must lead to discourse between the organizations on both sides.
In terms of jerusalem, my opponent says that the BDS movement wants the whole of jerusalem to go to the palestinians.
This is first untrue, BDS believes that there should be a shared jerusalem but second, the reasoning that jerusalem is the holiest place in judaism so it should go to israel is nonsensical.
It's the most holy place in christianity and islam as well.
As such, it's unclear why it should go to a single organization.
This leads me to my two arguments.
First, on discourse.
My opponent suggests that the BDS movement will fail inherently.
However, it's been incredibly important and valuable in creating discourse regarding issues and changing the minds of particular liberals in the united states and israel.
We think that the BDS movement provides a important point of view from a not hateful lens that is incredibly important to the overall discourse.
By having a nonviolent alternative, by having a group which does not depend on attacking jewish individuals, we think that there can be reasonable critiques of settlements and violence in israel without actually leaning into this anti-semitism which my opponent tries a critique.
But secondly, my second argument is that this is an effective political movement.
We think that it has a name behind it.
It has coalesce support by many important individuals and allows individuals to engage with the discourse without being labeled anti-semitic.
If a single actor or artist refused to go to israel just in general, they would be labeled anti-semitic even if they are protest in the settlements.
The BDS movement provides individuals a way in which they can engage with this discourse without being seen as an inherently problematic individual.
That itself is reason enough to keep it.
For this reason, we should not abandon the BDS movement.