I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase immigration to the united states.
The united states is a country founded by immigrants.
In the early days of the country's history we saw that immigrants come into the country largely drove its economy, largely drove of innovation and progress.
The problem is is that open borders is no longer a feasible option.
In the old days when you had open borders in most situations you also had open room.
You had ample opportunities where each additional person could find some space wherein they could plow their oats, they could contribute to the community as a whole simply by the fact that they were here.
That does not exist anymore.
As such, we think that increasing immigration to the US would do little more than hurt the overall social function of the US while also limiting the economic opportunities for those who are already there.
My opponent's model of open borders is particularly pernicious.
So we think that open borders to the united states would drive immediate changes to our demographics.
The problem there is that because the cost to travel from one place to another is fairly cheap.
Like honestly, I can get anywhere in the world for probably about a hundred dollars at the most, we think that anyone who feels like they get even a marginally better life would move here.
Recognize that people on social benefits, those who get welfare, those who get other things, live better than the global poor as a whole.
We think then as a result, anyone who could increase their lot simply by benefiting from our social programs would immediately move to the united states.
I have three arguments which supports this idea but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that it is the obligation of western liberal democracies to provide this due to the harms we have caused and the fact that we really are the richest people on earth.
We think that this is fundamentally untrue for a few reasons.
First, we think that this goes against the very principles of our nation that is to say, all states have obligations to those inside it first and foremost.
If any state tried to be purely cosmopolitan and help everyone on earth, the result would be one wherein they could never fend for their own citizens.
As such, we think that to actually have a state that is in any way meaningful, anyway powerful, it must cater to its own citizens first.
The next thing that my opponent says is the idea of freedom of movement being an inherent human right but we think freedom of movement is limited.
Sure, I can go from one place to another as I see fit but I can't travel onto your property whenever I want.
I can't cut through your land just to get from one place to another.
In the same way, we think it's fair that the mobility of individuals is limited when they try to go to another area that does not belong to them.
What's important is that people always have the right to leave where they are.
If I'm in the US, I should have the opportunity to go to any place that's willing to have me but I don't have the ultimate unassailable ability to actually go wherever I please.
Finally, my opponent talks about the ideas and cultures that comes as a result of this sort of policy but this leads me to my first argument xenophobia.
We think as there's a massive influx of immigrants individuals become afraid particularly when these individuals largely come from poorer backgrounds, can't afford to assimilate or simply don't want to assimilate.
People become angry, they become afraid and they elect far more extremist politicians who implement violent policies.
We think that culture is actually destroyed when this occurs either a, people assimilate completely losing their their culture or b, there's incredible violence which means that these cultures cannot intermingle and people can't benefit from the diversity of culture in the country.
Couple that with the fact that jobs programs and social programs would largely be unable to cater to the new demand and we see that the economy would decrease, the social standing of of the US would decrease and ultimately the nation would be harmed in a massive way.
For this reason, that we should not increase immigration to the united states.