I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should institute a carbon tax.
All that a carbon tax does is take unjust action against particular individuals and corporations who have decided to invest in areas with high amounts of carbon emissions.
We don't think individuals invested in oil, invested in coal, invested in paper mills, because they hate their community.
Instead they do it because they saw a demand in the market.
Outright destroying their livelihood for a policy which does incredibly little to fight global warming, is fundamentally unjust and undemocratic.
With that in mind I have three arguments.
First, on how it destroys essential industries.
Second, on how this policy is fundamentally misguided and third how it reflects undemocratic principles and vast government overstep.
First, on how it destroys essential.
For a carbon tax to ever be effective, for it even to be optically supported by green parties, it must be fairly stringent and fairly strong.
This means that individuals will be fined for massive amounts of carbon emissions will be fined with to an essentially an exact number based on their carbon emissions and they'll be charged incredibly high amounts.
This is problematic for a few reasons.
First, we think this will destroy particular kinds of goods out right.
Many kinds of paper, toilet paper, writing paper, printer paper, all depend on an industry which has massive amounts of emissions.
Although the foresting industry actually does have a lot of emissions, it also has policies where the corporation must replant trees after it cuts it down.
Using the unnuanced tool of a carbon tax what this means, is that these corporations will still be fined huge amounts of money for the carbon emissions even though when they actually cut down trees they're essentially carbon neutral because they plant another tree.
Because is is impossible to actually just measure the total offset based on either of these ideas, we think the government will defer to harming these industries and will defer to getting revenue and as such, it will destroy areas in industries which depend on things like forestry.
Even the coal industry funds certain towns and employs huge numbers of individuals.
We believe that creating essentially ghost towns making individual starve because they can't get a job, is fundamentally unjust and can never be the result of government policy.
My second argument is how this is a misguided policy.
A carbon emission tax will never be enough to stop global warming.
It will never be enough to stop the amount of smog in major cities.
Why is this the case?
The only way in which we can truly stop global warming is by changing policies towards things like the rain forest, by changing things policy towards the environment writ large.
As long as we are clear cutting forests, as long as we are having mass amounts of agriculture which may not directly create carbon emissions but destroys many things that essentially offset carbon emissions, we will continue to have global warming.
Unfortunately, a carbon tax would be vastly unpopular with both democrats and republicans insuring that the passage of such a policy will make it more difficult to pass environmental policy into the future.
If we ever want to stop global warming we must start with popular simple policies.
A carbon tax is neither.
My third argument is how this is undemocratic.
Now there is no truly objective good.
No matter what individuals say, it is always qualified based on their own personal intuitions or the intuitions of society.
This means that if we take actions against society we're being fundamentally bad.
There is no other definition of that which we think is logically consistent.
Because the carbon tax is fundamentally unpopular with both democrats and republicans, were government to adopt such a policy it would fail in its obligation to its people and lose its legitimacy.
For this reason, we should not institute a carbon tax.