We should ban herbal medicine.
Herbal medicine has been proven time and time again to be ineffective.
They are essentially placebos which do very little to actually support the well being of patients.
They are regularly used as a substitute for effective medicine and the research on this herbal medicine is incredibly scarce.
The only research which has been done on the whole field of herbal medicine is that herbal medicine is incredibly ineffective.
As such, we have two arguments.
First, that this is a substitute for effective medicine and second, that this is a dangerous tool in the hands of misinformed individuals.
But before that, I would briefly like to discuss government obligation.
We would say that there ought to be a high bar for when government can truly ban a product but we would say that herbal medicine meets this bar.
First, we think that there's been an active misinformation campaign by large entities.
This means that large corporations have accepted that they're willing to put people's lives at risk simply to increase their profit.
The only way in which the government can truly fight against this campaign of misinformation is by punishing them for their actions.
As such, we think it is legitimate to ban this sort of good.
Secondly, we would say that the government has an obligation to protect its citizens.
We would say that if there is a serious risk of harm to these individuals, even if there is no third party harm when they take them, we would say that government has an obligation to protect these people.
Particularly in cases where there is active misinformation, government must step in and ban herbal medicine.
Because we've created a fairly clear structure from banning a particular good is legitimate, I would like to go on to my arguments.
First off discussing how this is a substitute for effective medicine.
Now the sale of herbal medicine depends upon the idea that you do not need other forms of medication alongside it.
If an herbal remedy says you must have western medication alongside the remedy, it will not sell well.
Throughout history the best selling herbal remedies, the best selling remedies in general, are the ones which claim to be cure-alls which say if you have cancer if you take a little bit of nightshade it might clear your cancer.
We say that truly life threatening diseases can be mitigated simply through some sort of snake oil.
As such, the market incentive to lie to individuals is incredibly pernicious and causes many people to substitute effective medicine for with herbal medicine.
This causes mass loss of life as many individuals get worse.
We see this in the case of steve jobs where on his death bed he said I wish I had not taken herbal remedies.
I wish I'd simply got chemotherapy for my kidney cancer.
This is a routine occurrence and must be prevented by government.
Now my second argument is about how dangerous herbal medicine can be.
This is even for individuals who combine it with western medicine, we would say that herbal medicine is incredibly problematic in two ways.
First, the combination with conventional medicine is largely unresearched.
Although trace amounts of nightshade, small amounts of vitamin c are unlikely to cause any meaningful harm.
In particular cases with certain active ingredients in the herbal medicine, their combination with conventional medicine, particularly pain killers, can cause disastrous effects.
Individuals who combine these two medicines are likely to face known problems which cannot be understood or easily predicted by doctors.
As such, government has an obligation to ban these particular goods.
In the only case where my opponent can justify herbal medicine sale when they're used alongside this conventional medicine, it can be incredibly dangerous.
Additionally, herbal medicine can simply just be dangerous in high doses.
If you take an entire jar of trace amounts of nightshade, it stops being trace amounts and at that point you could easily poison yourself or because of their internal harms.
As such, we should ban herbal medicine.
Thank you.