I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should limit natural resource exploitation.
The amount that we use our natural resources is essential for us to maintain the progress which has allowed us to live an incredibly good quality of life.
The reason that we see violence going down, poverty decreasing, starvation going down, is as a result of our natural resource exploitation.
It's a result of the way that our markets are able to use our natural resources to change into goods that empower all of us.
Ultimately, limiting natural resource exploitation would do little more than make it so environmentalists are happy while the poor continue to suffer and continue to starve as a result of our callousness and as are a result of our inability to separate ourselves from our own elitism.
With that in mind I have two arguments: first is about progress.
Why do we think that national resources are so important for progress?
They are the inputs which drive capital.
Whenever we have any system of capitalism there must be some basic goods that have inherent worth.
We think things like gold, wood, oar, are all essential because they can be changed into so many different things and there will always be demand for them.
If we were to decrease the very basis of our economy, that is to say the natural resources which drive everything a few things would happen.
First, prices for everything would go up.
It might seem unintuitive.
Why would the price of food go up if the price of gold increased?
But the cost of producing microchips to control agricultural systems would increase.
The cost of getting steel to be able to build systems of agriculture would increase.
The cost of cars and the cost of gas would also increase which would all translate to more expensive food.
Don't just think about food though, think about literally every single item in our economy.
The result of decreased natural resource exploitation would be total economic collapse.
The result then would be that our market has no capacity to recover and that many individuals will lead a far worse quality of life.
We think that were the market to be more free, were we to increase our natural resource exploitation while also increasing our investment into RAnd_d, the result is one which the market would have the capacity to solve our natural resource issues, the fact that we don't have enough.
We think things like synthetic materials which are as hard as steel are a great replacement however, if we don't continue to invest into our market, if we don't continue to invest into our technology, result is one which the market can never solve our woes.
My second argument is that so many lives will be lost.
Just think of what happens when the price of food doubles.
A lot of people can barely put food on the table in the status quo and either go hungry or simply cannot pay their bills in any meaningful fashion.
The result then, if we decrease our natural resource exploitation is that these people will lose their lives.
Think that they have some sort of claim to life under any system but were we to preference the general good of the environment over the lives lost as a result of the money that we lose, we think that we we are doing a true disservice to the poor.
It is essentially another elitist policy passed by the united states with no deference, with no consideration of those who are the most vulnerable.
Ultimately, we think that life is a facillatory right.
That's to say, if you don't have life you have no access to any other right.
So if we allow thousands of people to die and get a slightly better environment, the result is one which these people simply can't enjoy it and all the benefits of the environment are clearly outweighed by the lives lost.
For this reason, we should not limit natural resource exploitation.