I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase government regulation.
Government regulation is largely not nuanced.
It's sort of singular goals of individuals in government and does not serve the will of the people.
Because we think the government is an incredibly ineffective way at determining the best outcomes, we think that we should generally defer to the people to make their own decisions.
We should decrease the total amount of regulation and ensure that individuals can freely contract and freely assemble as they see fit.
I have one point of rebuttal for three independent arguments.
Now my opponent says that the reason government exists is to represent the democratic will of the people.
Who's true to some extent.
They say it's to be a moral actor.
This is partially true as well.
But we think that the purpose of government is to have good outcomes.
It is impossible with a representative government to represent everyone's needs and everyone's opinions in the votes that they cast.
We would prefer a world in which every actor and on behalf of government pursues good outcomes, simply does not do what their state does if it harms the total sum of people.
If damning off a river in north dakota would harm everyone in south dakota and other states below it, we would say that it should not happen even if the representative of north dakota is being pushed by their constituents to do so.
As such, we think the government will always operate more effectively if it operates to the will of all people and not just individual groups.
This brings me to my first argument about how regulation leads to deadweight loss.
When individuals freely associate, supply and demand are equilibrated.
This is to say, if the price of something is too high and a person cannot sell all of their supply, they will decrease the price until everyone who wants it can access it at a price where the supplier still wants to create it.
Regulation harms this, why?
If you make it more expensive for someone to produce something but they do not get to gain that profit, first, we think that they'll produce less but secondly, the consumers also charged more at the same time.
That is to say, companies don't make more money but consumers also don't get to benefit from a lower price.
The result is a decrease in production, a decrease in the total welfare of all people and a deadweight loss which has no justification.
My second argument is about how this makes companies lose resources particularly jobs.
We think that companies will hire individuals until their marginal product, that is to say, the benefit you get from hiring them is the same as the cost of hiring them.
At that point they are transferring the skills that an individual has to the economy while still making marginal amounts of profit.
This is the only way that companies can stay competitive.
If they try to hire people at a wage lower than their deserved rate, they will leave the company.
However, if you implement this kind of regulation first, we think that you get skewed industries.
If I only regulate the energy industry, for instance, they cannot hire workers effectively because they those workers can get more money in other industries.
Additionally, we think that if you charge individuals for how they operate the workplace, you decrease the total amount of choice that workers have.
If I want to be paid twice as much to work in a space that's a bit more dangerous, I should be able to do so even if my skill is something like computer science.
It should not depend on me learning construction and inherently having an unsafe work environment to get this kind of change in income and as such, regulation will always homogenize industries and make them worse.
My third argument is that command economies are bad.
We think that the government does not understand the nuances of the entire economy.
They can't understand where money ought to be spent in every instance.
The best way in which we can spend our money effectively is to spread that out to all people and let them spend where they see fit.
As such, we should not increase government regulation.