We should decrease the use of automation.
In science fiction novels, we're given this image of automation in which it will save us from work, it'll save us from disease, and it will largely make our society a utopia.
Unfortunately, these ideas of automation depend on the community owning the automation.
In any capitalist society, which will inevitably be the first societies in which we create automation on a massive scale, we think it is fundamentally untenable.
Automation destroys people's jobs.
It makes it so capital is amassed in a single place.
When there's a system in which we can redistribute that capital easily, this isn't a problem.
However, when you take people's jobs away and, instead of giving them their income, you give it to some of the wealthiest people in our society, we think that you will ultimately make it so inequality explodes, and poverty becomes the most common cause of death.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that all innovation, in terms of automation, ought stop, that all investment into into automation, all creation of automation that takes people's jobs should go away.
Three arguments why this is a good idea: first, as I've already stated, inequality.
We think that inequality is a massive driver of suffering in our society.
Two main reasons why: first, any society with hard inequality must have a poverty class, a slave class, a group of people who have no resources to call their own.
Unfortunately, when there is truly extreme poverty, when ninety percent of the population lives in abject poverty, there's not much of a difference calling them a slave class versus a poverty class, because at the point where you will do literally anything to survive, and your only options to survive is to bend to the whims of the wealthiest people in our society, you end up being little more than a slave to the truly horrific mass nations of a capitalist society.
As such, we think that exploding inequality will destroy human rights, will destroy the ability for people to live a happy life, and lead to massive death.
But secondly, even if that kind of inequality is not created, inequality is a massive driver of political patronage, of corruption on a massive scale.
As people amass more capital, they want to protect it.
As such, we think they'll invest into the government in order to insure their position.
Although rioting may occur, although protests may occur, people with the most capital can simply hire security, can pay off the government, and the cops, and the army to guarantee that their position is never usurped.
As such, increasing automation creates a truly unequal society that can never be rectified.
Second, we think that automation leads to a massive decrease in quality.
This largely depends on consumer preference.
We think that individuals will ultimately have to decide between well-made products or poorly made products.
But as automation increases, as the cost of automation goes up, even if a tiny subsection of our population buys high quality products, the people who produce it will have no more incentive to build it.
The initial fixed costs of creating, say, high quality carabiners, ultimately means that individuals will not sell them if they're not being bought in a massive scale.
As such, we think that low quality goods will flood the market.
This might be fine for certain goods but, for example, carabiners, as I said before, which are the latch that guarantee that people who are mountain climbing don't fall off the mountain, if those decrease in quality, it can lead to more death, it can lead to things like lead paint in toys.
We think that, ultimately, a decrease in quality can lead to death and will inevitably lead to massive suffering.
Ultimately, increasing the use of automation will destroy our society and, as such, we need to take preemptive measures by decreasing the use of automation.