I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize journalism journalism is only free when it is not required to take money from large actors such as the government.
We think it is fine when the private market determines what journalism is effective or ineffective when consumers decide to subscribe to a particular service, but when government steps in and controls particular new sources it will inevitably lead to market capture, will lead to invalid associations between government and particular news sources, and will destroy private markets.
First off on capture.
It is inevitable that when government steps in and gives money to a news organization they will become less free.
They will feel less comfortable critiquing the government.
If someone tries to put an article out which suggests that the government is being inept or its otherwise invalid, editors will always shut it down.
First off, we think because government can and will use funding over these new sources as a way to coerce them into putting out particular information, we see that the current american administration is not about threatening particular sources where they not to release information to the administration.
This means that either things like whistle blowers will be revealed to government or whistle blowers never go never go out to these news organizations and as such, they will never have the truth about what is happening within the administration.
Furthermore, we think that the perception of capture is bad enough that even if the government does not step in and use this to coerce certain news organizations, if news anchors feel as though they could lose funding if they report on particular topics, they will shy away from those topics.
This is incredibly problematic as you can never have a free discourse about how government is failing if the press is captured by the government.
Furthermore, we would say even if the press completely understands that the government will not take their money away, if the common citizen sees that the government is giving money to a particular news source, they will feel less trustworthy of that news source generally defeating the purpose of journalism in general.
As such, we think this will destroy the foundation of journalism, the exact opposite of what danny tries to prevent throughout his speech.
Now my second argument is the idea invalid association.
When you give money to a particular organization, that organization falls under your aegis.
It represents you and its speech becomes your speech.
We think this is incredibly problematic as many news sources, even common public news sources, at times spout racist, sexist, or otherwise xenophobic propaganda.
First off, this can happen simply through misinformation.
If someone believes something that isn't true regarding immigrants or about statistics, they can spout it off and the government will essentially be subsidizing that speech.
This is inherently problematic and a general misuse of taxpayer funds but furthermore, we think certain news casters and journalists will feel comfortable with their service no matter what.
They won't feel as though the money will be taken away and as such, they will continue to spout problematic ideas which will fundamentally represent the government in a bad light.
We think that this is inherently problematic and leads to distrust between both the people and the journalists but as well, the people in the government as well.
Finally, I want to discuss the idea of how this destroys private markets.
When government steps in and makes it incredibly difficult for investors to fill the same space that government has already taken as such, we think that private news sources will leave the market.
This is incredibly problematic because there's no capital t truth.
There is no absolute truth regarding journalism.
The only way in which we can approach the truth is by having as many viewpoints as possible.
Government stepping in and funding particular news sources is will destroy the private market and make it so many investors will leave generally decreasing the amount of information available and decreasing the political efficacy of all citizens who would like to be informed.
As such, we should not subsidize journalism.