I stand in opposition to the motion we should further exploit enhanced oil recovery.
Enhanced oil recovery is just a fancy way of saying things like fracking, of saying new modern techniques which is dredge oil up from the earth, which consume mass amounts of resources in order to get the small amount of oil in these places.
We think that fracking is a horrible idea and has massive environmental harms.
To that end, we have three arguments: first is environmental destruction.
When you pump water into the core of the earth, well not the core very deep inside the earth we think that this causes shifts in the tectonic plates.
In places like california where we see more fracking, earthquakes have increased, tectonic shifts have increased, erosion, avalanches, all of the harms of a shifting earth are more common.
This can lead to massive loss of life, can lead to a mass amount of people being harmed as a result of this sort of technology and ultimately it leads to environmental destruction on a before now unimaginable scale.
But it's not just the shifting of tectonic plates.
When fracking goes into an area we think that this sort of water pushes everything out of the way.
It really destroys rivers, it destroys streams and changes the layout of a particular area as such, habitats in this area are destroyed, biodiversity decreases and healthiness decreases as well.
We think when you lose a key species, such as an important piece of fauna or an animal that many that is essentially far down in the food chain, the result is that other animals starve.
As this happens more often, as this occurs more frequently, we think that all sorts of natural life is destroyed.
This increases the rate of global warming.
This ultimately decreases the ability for humans to enjoy nature and ultimately leads to a loss of biodiversity which we think is essential for the overall and long term well being of our planet.
My second argument is that enhanced enhanced oil recovery poisons groundwater.
The problem when you have dirty water, which is usually filled with chemicals, pump it into the earth and push oil down into groundwater, push it into rivers is that humans are also poisoned.
Like as I've already stated, there's going to be mass extinction as a result of further exploiting enhanced oil recovery.
But even if someone has literally no empathy for animals, they don't care in the slightest, we think that poisoning groundwater leads to poisoning humans.
It leads to poisoning areas.
It leads to children who are more likely to have birth defects, more likely to have health problems in youth that extend to adulthood and ultimately increases medical bills for people.
Even if someone can afford these sort of medical bills, we think it's incredibly bad to poison them and decrease their long term health and well being but for a lot of people they can't afford these kinds of medical bills in the first place.
Particularly in areas that are close to fracking people simply don't enough money.
This can lead to bankruptcy or simply death to people refuse to get it treated.
My third and final argument is that this increases oil consumption.
I will admit enhanced oil recovery decreases the price of oil but this actually isn't a good thing.
If people drive more, if people see that the price of oil is down we think that they invest more in oil, they buy more oil and as a result people pollute more.
The one of the major pollutants on our planet is the fact that people drive cars day in and day out, that millions upon millions of cars are driving around the planet on a day to day basis.
By increasing oil consumption, we accelerate the rate of global warming and lead to all the environmental destruction I've talked about in my earlier arguments.
For this reason, we should not further exploit enhanced oil recovery.