I stand firm opposition to the motion that we should increase immigration in the US.
Although will is well intentioned with those arguments he represents a common mindset among the liberal elite.
They believe certain things about immigrants because they've never had the harms of immigration actualized upon them.
Although certain studies have shown that immigrants might contribute to the economy	 when poor individuals feel as though their jobs are being threatened when other action other reform is being blocked by this and when the current system has checks and place to allow appropriate amounts of immigration we would say that we would vastly prefer the status quo to an increase in immigration.
Three arguments.
First this is the worst time to a doc adopt an increased immigration standard in the US.
The current president of the united states is donald trump.
The republicans control both houses of congress and many local seats as well.
Increasing immigration in the US will do little more than empower them further.
Now is a vital time in history to determine how how we'll move forward.
The current trump administration has adopted fascist ideology and fast fascist tactics to control the american people.
However there has been backlash in the status quo.
The democrats are looking good for the twenty eighteen election at the very least many republicans are distance distancing themselves from trump.
However one of his main campaign promises was about immigration.
The wall was about immigration.
Although we don't think the wall will be adopted even if we increase immigration in the US it is symbolic of the totality of anti immigrant sentiment here.
We would say that there's going to be profound political backlash if there is an increase in immigration in the US.
It will lead to more individuals opposing liberal ideology and liberal legislation and make it difficult for other parties to rise up against the conservative parties in the united states.
As such united states will slide further into fascism and inequality.
This has profound domestic implications as people lose their rights as people cannot even vote as well write the laws are pushed across the nation.
Governments have an obligation to their citizens first.
So we would say as the discussion of policy we cannot increase immigration is if it'll inevitably harm the american people.
But secondly will have four repercussions as well.
The fall of US hegemony threatens many states.
The second argument is that this is a false ideology given too many immigrants.
What we mean by this is that the american dream is a lie.
Many immigrants come to the united states expecting the shining land but they can get a job with very little problem.
However even legal immigrants end up moving back to their country end up sending huge amounts of money out of the state because they do not like living in the united states.
We would say that increasing immigration does little more than feed them.
It a insidious lie pushed by the american government.
As we continue to increase legal immigration among poor members of society all that will happen is that the lower class will increase in size and further policies will be taken to disenfranchise poor individuals.
And individuals who simply look like an immigrant such as arizona's policy where they could stop anyone who they just thought who looked like an immigrant.
Third argument is that the current system is the best it allows god errors corporations to invest in foreign talents to bring foreign programmers foreign high skilled labor into the united states and pay them justly.
This is the current five o one three visa system and abandoning it will simply mean an influx of low skilled labor but not an influx of high school labor which is what the united states needs the most.
As such we should not.
Increase immigration in the US