I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end the use of economic sanctions.
Economic sanctions have been a vital tool in the fight for human rights and the prevention of war since the implementation of the bretton woods system of and the global financial sectors have really stabilized.
We think that the use of economic sanctions allows governments to express their distaste with one another without putting boots on the ground or causing untold violence.
To that end, I have three arguments: first, that it is the best option.
Recognize that economic sanctions are not used in a vacuum.
If a country do not have the ability to use economic sanctions, it would not simply say, " , yes, continue with your human rights violations.
Continue violating the rights of our citizens and acting aggressively. "
No.
They would respond by putting boots on the ground, by forming coalitions, and bombing certain states or organizations into oblivion.
Now, why are boots on the ground the worst possible option?
First, we think that putting troops in the area will inherently lead to increased rights violations.
Regardless of the military force, when we've put boots on the ground, black markets have expanded due to soldiers trying to make money on the side and trying to consume drugs to distract them from the death and destruction around them, we see that individuals are unlikely to respect the rights of their opponents or the rights of civilians in the area and, as such, are far more likely to shoot more easily.
We think that soldiers are easily spooked.
Economic sanctions cannot be made afraid so they're not going to randomly kill a a huge number of civilians.
Soldiers will.
Besides the soldiers, though, we think that having boots on the ground, having armed conflict, is likely to destroy infrastructure, preventing local governments from being created and, ultimately, putting power back into the hands of the most egregious rights violators who can promise increased infrastructure and increased spending in particular areas.
As such, even if you buy everything my opponent says, you're still preferring economic sanctions as they are far preferable to having a military conflict in which thousands of people die and very little is resolved.
But even if you buy it's not only used as an alternative, why are sanctions good?
My second argument is it deters human rights violations.
Individuals understand that sanctions are very bad for all levels of society.
If I'm very poor, it's clear that economic sanctions will increase the cost of goods, so I do not want them to be put in place.
If I'm rich, economic sanctions do a a few things.
First, they increase the cost of every single one of my goods.
Usually economic sanctions explicitly target luxury goods more effectively, so now my cars, my boats, my food, are all ten times more expensive because they're being actively blockaded.
Second, though, we think that by making individuals in poverty angry, they're far more likely to actually fight against the people in power, to vote against the current government and current regime.
As such, people who are rich and powerful also dislike this sort of policy as it makes it so they cannot get further power later on.
The as such, we think that by harming all people in society, but only enough to make them angry, it's far more likely to deter human rights violations in the first place, as they don't want to internalize the costs of their own actions.
My third and final argument is that it weakens oppressive infrastructure.
If human rights violations are occurring, particularly on a systemic level, by implementing sanctions we take away weapons.
We take away tools from the wealthiest individuals and the most violent groups, and ultimately make it so they can oppress individuals far less effectively.
As such, because sanctions are a better option, because they deter human rights violations, and because they weaken oppressive regimes, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.