We should introduce school vouchers.
School vouchers are an essential tool to give parents and students a choice.
There are very few incentives for school administrators to create a positive learning environment as their jobs are largely safe.
School vouchers create this incentive by introducing the market into our education system.
As such I support the following model that all families in the united states get a voucher of equal value provided by the federal government.
This means that the current system of school funding which is based on the area you live in will be abolished.
And instead a tax will be placed upon the entirety of the population in order to raise money for the school vouchers.
I'm not going to get into the logistics of this tax because it largely should not be what the debate round is about.
I want to discuss primarily the role of vouchers and how they affect school incentives.
My first argument is choice.
There are very few abilities or instances in which parents can exercise choice when determining their child's education.
The vast majority of the time individuals are put into a school based on the area they were born in.
This means that wealthier students get put in better schools and poor students get put in the worst schools.
Although it's a possibility that you can transfer schools sometimes there are restrictions where this is impossible and other times this is largely based on a lottery for very few students are actually let in.
A school voucher system where there are restrictions on stopping students from other districts from coming in prevents this from occurring.
This has two major benefits.
First we think that choice is an inherent good.
Parents are the best arbiter of their students well being.
They can determine what they need out of the school.
They can determine what subjects they would be best that as they are the individuals who have spent the most time with their child and have the greatest incentive and purpose for helping their child.
Secondly we think that this will resolve some problems where certain students are left in areas where they are not properly catered to.
Their different schools offer different programs.
In the status quo wealthier areas provide a variety of programs and poor areas provide very few.
We think that this provides a clear incentive for schools to become more niche.
We think that this is actually valuable as a variety of niche options which specialize in certain areas and do particularly well in those areas provides students a variety of excellent choices rather than a lot of mediocre choices.
Now my second argument is the idea of funding.
As I said before the current funding system is inherently broken.
Wealthier students get all the benefits while poor students get none.
Entire voting districts and tax districts have been put in place in order to keep poor students in the worst schools entrenching systems of poverty and creating a widespread system of equality in the united states.
Introducing a school voucher system would resolve this funding inadequacy and equality incredibly quickly.
It would additionally have some incredibly important affects.
It would equalize class sizes as all schools would be able to offer similar amounts of money to each teacher and the more students you put in a class the more money you can get.
But coupled with the fact that there's also incentive for parents to put their students and schools with low class sizes it means that there will largely be a supply and demand equilibrium where class sizes are maintained equally through all american schools.
Secondly we think that the quality of infrastructure will increase profoundly.
Students everywhere where we'll be able to afford computers effective gym equipment which will allow them to learn more effectively.
Even if this doesn't actually improve the lot of all people equality of access is the most important outcome.
Having it so there's not a system of inherent inequality based on the lottery of birth is the most just outcome and is must be a goal of government.
As such we should introduce school vouchers.