I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should fight nationalism.
When we hear nationalism, we think of a lot of negative characteristics.
It's largely used as an insult against individuals who have profound faith in their country, but it's largely unclear if it's actually a bad thing.
Every time someone is called a patriot, every time someone exhibits patriotism, they're expressing nationalism.
But in that same vein, we understand that patriotism can be a good thing, that it can be used for good and that it can generally change people's opinions such that they love their fellow man more and work harder for their community.
With that in mind, I have two arguments, but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that nationalism is the opposite of democracy and freedom.
He says that as we express nationalism, individuals lose the right to vote, foreign people don't have the ability to access the country.
Two big responses: first, we think that nationalism can come in a form where you do accept foreign individuals.
We think that the united states, for instance, is a country founded by immigrants.
You can be a nationalist for the united states and, at the same time, accept that immigrants are an important part of our national fabric.
As such, we don't think that nationalism is inherently against individuals who come to your country and want to actually work for the betterment of all people.
It may be against other countries, but it's not against other countries to the point where you just want them to do poorly.
It's not like you pray that china, india, mexico, all just do poorly.
You only pray that other countries do poorly when it would cost your country something, which we think that many individuals already do.
Second, though, we think that it's not against democracy, and it's not against freedom if this nationalism comes about naturally.
That is to say, if individuals adopt this nationalism without any further outside pressure, it's not actually bad for democracy.
The only way that it would be bad for democracy is if we artificially fight nationalism and artificially try to change people's opinions, which is what my opponent tries to do.
Their second argument is that it's fundamentally immoral, that it makes people really bad, but we think that it actually gets worse when you try to fight nationalism.
This leads to my first argument: backlash.
When you take an active step against nationalism, a few things happen.
First, people think the government or society is going against their beliefs and trying to shut them down or censor them.
This pushes them further to the fringe.
Furthermore, we think that as you fight nationalism, you may transfer some of the moderates out of that group, but you still have the extremists.
This largely largely creates a political and social block that is more extreme, more violent, and more hatred-filled.
The result then is that individuals who are immigrants, individuals who are different, start to feel more pressure from these extremist groups.
You see extremist politicians come to power and they pass bad policy.
My second argument is that nationalism can actually be good.
We think when individuals feel nationalism and as a result start to fight for their communities, start to change the world in a better way, we think that's good nationalism.
Every time you hear patriotism, that's someone saying that nationalism is a good thing.
When people fight for their country, whether that's helping to do community service or that's paying more taxes than others individuals do.
We think that, ultimately, nationalism can be a force for good to improve your community and improve the lives of your fellow human beings.
This fundamentally cuts against everything my opponent says.
If nationalism can improve people's quality of life, if people can feel proud in their country and want to spread that to the world, we think that the world as a whole becomes a better place.
For this reason, we should not fight nationalism.