We should ban fast food.
Fast food has long been a public health scourge.
We think that many children and adults have suffered from obesity, in large part, due to fast food.
This would be fine if this were due to the actions of these adults and children in a vacuum.
However, we think that this sort of obesity epidemic has been pushed by fast food companies.
They have largely prioritized their bottom line above the welfare of society.
Not only that, we think that regulations on calories and on additives to food have largely been unsuccessful.
The only way in which we can create meaningful change is if we outright ban fast food.
To that end, we would support the following model: that in western liberal democracies fast food chains be banned.
We think that individual stores should be allowed.
Any franchise with three or more stores should be evaluated for health.
We think that if there is the flashy advertisements, if the food is largely unhealthy, then fast food will be banned.
My first argument is that fast food relies on predatory marketing.
We think that children are largely the target of fast food advertisements.
If they can convince their parents to go, then the fast food company makes money.
To that end, fast food companies rely on bright colors, loud noises, advertisements which do not have any merit but draw in children.
This is fundamentally deceptive and unjust.
We think that this reduces parent autonomy and largely puts children in unhealthy position.
We would also say that it relies on tools that largely feed the addiction core in our bodies.
Individuals who may not have a medically diagnosable addiction to fast food or sugar are largely susceptible to the tools used by fast food corporations.
Because we think it perpetuates harmful health standards in individuals, fast food should be banned.
My second argument is about obesity.
Around the world, obesity is a growing epidemic.
The US at number two and mexico at number one have largely been bolstered in these sort of rankings by fast food.
We think that banning fast food will decrease adult obesity.
This is incredibly important because it decreases the cost of healthcare, particularly in states with socialized medical expenses.
But even in states like the united states, we think that obesity increases the wait time at hospitals, puts other people's lives at risk, and drives up healthcare prices.
We also think that childhood obesity is a incredibly problematic standard, particularly in the united states.
Many children can't live happy lives because they are not equipped to exercise functionally.
We also think obese children suffer from more bullying and, as such, are less likely to engage in public activities overall.
This is a incredibly problematic cycle of obesity which fast food chains start.
My third argument is that fast food chains are wasteful.
They produce massive amounts of food and yet, most of it goes into the dumpster.
They require palm oil, ground beef, everything that's grown on the sort of plantations that destroy forests around the world.
Because we think that the world is currently undergoing a climate crisis, it is essential that we target this on all fronts, including at fast food.
For this reason, we should ban fast food.