We should legalize sex selection.
Sex selection is a relatively innocuous process in which particular sperm and embryos are selected such that a child has a particular gender upon birth.
It allows parents to express gate greater control over their children's future and, as such, express greater control over their own future as well.
We think that individuals should have as much control as possible over their own future, and when we deny individuals this sort of autonomy and this sort of self-determination, we are being fundamentally oppressive.
To this end, we support the following model: that countries around the world allow sex selection.
They will allow in vitro fertilization which allows the sex to be selected or any other process that does not depend on terminating an incorrect pregnancy.
We're not going to defend sex sex-selective abortions here, but we think that nearly any other tool is fair game in this debate.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on the rights of parents.
We think that parents sacrifice a massive amount to have a child.
It's incredibly difficult to raise a child from infancy to adulthood, and it costs huge amounts of money.
For many individuals, they want to have a number of children of different genders.
The standard american household is a child of each gender raised to adulthood.
We think this is relatively fair.
For many parents, though, this simply is not an option.
They either have children of the same gender or they keep having children until they get that sort of diversification they want, but then have too many children.
Either way, parents are sacrificing part of their future simply because of this sort of random choice.
We think that parents deserve the ability to control their own future and we believe that the gender of their child, while having no meaningful effect on the child itself insofar is it is not unjust to be born one gender or another, can have a meaningful effect on the parents.
As such, parents should be given greater autonomy and be able to choose the sex of the child.
Secondly, though, let's talk about parental efficacy because we think when parents are more passionate about raising a child, when they want to have more diverse experiences, they're usually better parents.
If someone has raised only boys for awhile and is, frankly, tired of it, then having a girl might make them a better parent going into the future.
We think that this sort of diversification is incredibly good for both parent and child.
We would also say that children who have siblings of a different sex are probably more likely to be respectful.
They're more likely to empathize with these people and have resources going into the future.
Contact is valuable for learning about a number of individuals from different backgrounds and, in this case, different sexes.
My third argument is about how this encourages family planning.
We think that individuals do not plan regarding having their family enough.
When individuals get together and actually discuss what they want to do, when they discuss it with their partner and that becomes normalized, and when they discuss it with a professional, they're far more likely to have a happy future, have a healthy child and, ultimately, empower everyone involved in the raising of the child.
To this end, we should legalize sex selection.