I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
Violent video games are a form of speech.
There's very little difference between a video I make and an interactive game which has the exact same graphics, the exact same engine which allows some leeway on behalf of the player.
Unless my opponent is comfortable with restricting speech in a variety of situations which otherwise allow individuals to otherwise understand their calls and understand their incentives, we think that they will lose this round.
I have one overview followed by some brief extraneous rebuttal and then a few arguments.
So my overview is that my opponent grossly mis-characterizes every single violent video game.
They fail to mention a single violent video game where you are rewarded for murdering someone.
They continue to use the fear mongering example that the media continually relies upon that is grand theft auto.
You don't get points by murdering prostitutes and murdering old woman walking on the streets.
Plowing your car into a group of people immediately puts the police on you who will do everything in their power to stop you or arrest you, make you lose the game.
Violent video games do not reward individuals for being sociopaths.
In fact, they make it incredibly clear that this is a bad thing and that there are always going to be repercussions when you do this.
That the police will always find you regardless of what you do.
As such the only video games that are like actually reward people for inherent violence are those that are what are referred to as AO, adults only, which in the status quo are already prevented from being sold to children overall.
As such, this debate is only about the niche cases when you play as say neo from the matrix, shooting computer programs rather than people.
We think that these should be allowed for children as they do not teach anything problematic and generally don't make people worse off.
My two arguments then are first that government should not ban this because it is inconsistent with their ideology.
We think that the government too often impedes on children speech rights.
Although there is precedent for stopping children from saying whatever they want or accessing whatever they want, it is not truly consistent or understandable why it exists.
Children are citizens of the state and benefit from the rights in the constitution.
If they want to have a certain idea they should be able to follow that idea and articulate their self in the marketplace of ideas.
When you restrict individuals abilities to purchase and otherwise articulate themselves through their own currency, we think what you do is restrict their ability to self actualize and access what they truly want.
My opponents suggests that we can ban violent video games because of the harmful effects alone but first, we think that you cannot ban speech because it's harmful.
Yes, we can ban drugs because they're harmful because the inherent injection of them well objectively hurts you.
However banning speech because you perceive it is harmful is first subjective, so it will never truly be a truth and as such will always be inconsistent when applied, but secondly generally restricts speech rights which we hold more sacred, and which can be harmful without the government stepping in.
But secondly though, my opponent never proves that violent video games are harmful.
Every single piece of contemporary evidence has shown time and time again that violent video games do not actually lead to more violent tendencies in children.
They are released.
They increase hand eye coordination.
And until they can prove that this was actually hurt people we think that their standard is truly inconsistent.
My second argument though is that a nuance system is preferable.
We think that what this does is it teaches children to get around the law.
I can always pirate video games, I can always download them offline and all this does is teaches children to access these kinds of sites.
These are also the same sites have massive amounts of pornography and the truly violent video games that would not be sold to children on either side of the house.
We think that teaching children to access illicit sites and go around the law is generally a bad thing.
We think that furthermore, individuals are likely to access the worst versions of their speech when they cannot actually buy what they want.
We think that they'll generally disassociate with government, see it as inherently illegitimate.
For this reason we should not ban the sale of violent video games to minors.