I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt mobile payments.
Because mobile payments are less safe, because they restrict freedom, and because they generally cost more than other forms of payment, they represent a massive restriction on the freedom of anyone who decides to use them.
Adopting them as a more common form of payment will inevitably lead to more abuse from both government and corporations, more identity theft, and a greater cost.
First off on safety.
Although many of these mobile payment apps are created by the most modern tech companies currently on the market, they are also right for abuse.
The needs of consumers, what they have been demanding for a long time, are payments which are as easy as possible.
Unfortunately, companies have cut costs and decided to emphasize efficiency over security.
This means that in a variety of cases identity theft is considerably easier when using a mobile payment app like venmo than a credit card.
To steal someone's identity on venmo I can get their phone or get their user name password and steal everything from their bank account.
Compare this with a credit card where I need to have the card itself and the number around it and there are a variety of checks from the bank which restrict irregular or payments which they think are due to identity theft which otherwise protect consumers.
We think that the safety means that people could easily lose their life savings if their life savings are greater than the insurance amount to that government insures even in cases of identity theft or at the very least, when identity theft occurs more often this is actually a theft from consumers excuse me from taxpayers.
Because the government insures bank accounts up to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, every single time identity theft occurs that money comes out of the taxpayer's wallet.
It is not as though government has a coffer in which they can ensure this sort of money irregardless of the money that they get from the taxpayer and as such, every time identity theft occurs is a cost which the taxpayer has to incur.
Because we think this is inherently unjust and bad for society we would say that non-mobile payments are far more effective.
Secondly on freedom.
Because mobile payments track all of your transactions and give it a variety of sources, we think that is inherently unjust.
Venmo takes your credit card information gives that information to individuals who purchase your who actually want to know your personal history.
They can sell your meta data and generally they are able to track you far more easily.
We think this is problematic for a couple reasons.
First, mobile payment processors have decided that they're they are willing to moralize.
Paypal has decided that companies that they think are deviants, too sexual, or otherwise are problematic, they're willing to stop all mobile payments to these individuals.
If we adopt mobile payments this means that payment processors, not governments, have the choice of when they want to destroy entire corporations.
This is inherently unjust and will inevitably lead to anti-trust practices.
Furthermore, the surveillance state is additionally on just as this data is not well regulated and as such, can easily be used by individuals who would like to harm us.
Third and finally, we think global payments have costs which are unjust.
This can come in two forms.
First, mobile payments require a cell phone or require advanced technology which many people in poverty don't have.
As a society moves more toward mobile payments, they will leave the poorest in society behind forcing them to either starve or waste a huge amount of their money on something they actually don't need when there are alternatives which exist.
Additionally, mobile payment processors take an additional amount off the top.
Credit card companies already take a percentage of your payment and puts it in their own coffers.
We think mobile payment processors do the same thing on top of this taking money away from the stores.
The stores then incur some of the cost upon the common people generally harming the whole of society and creating a dead weight loss which only benefits mobile payment processors.
As such, we should not adopt mobile payments.