We should fight illegal immigration.
Illegal immigration is incredibly dangerous because it undermines the laws in a given society, harms the process of illegal immigration, excuse me, of legal immigration, and has profound social costs that will inevitably take hold of societies and destroy entire areas.
Although we think the average individual illegal immigrant may have some desert claim to to come to the US or might be an upstanding citizen, as an amalgamation, we largely see that illegal immigration erodes our laws, harms our own citizens, and largely decreases government transparency.
As such, we would propose the following model: that in the united states, there be an increase in spending on the prevention of illegal immigration and in the removal of illegal immigrants once they get here.
Three arguments for why this is a necessity: first, on government obligation.
We think that the government's primary obligation is to its own citizens.
So if we can demonstrate that illegal immigration trades off with the well-being of citizens, we think it is imperative that government steps in and attempts to prevent it.
The second obligation governments have are to their own laws.
The law is the way in which the government speaks.
When government attempts to act on an individual without laws being put in place, we think that they are overstepping their bounds, making it impossible to predict their actions and generally oppressing individuals.
When governments fail to operate within their laws, they are allowing for preferential treatment to exist for individuals to get away with crimes and the general rule of law and the very will of the government to be undermined.
As such, we think that the secondary obligation of government must be to protect its own laws to protect its own citizens.
Third and finally, we think it's essential for the government to act openly and transparently, and we think that's only possible when it prevents certain organizations from spending money on illegal immigrants rather than hiring US workers.
This brings me to my second argument, the harms of legal immigration.
We think that legal immigration first decreases the political capacity and the political capital available to change our immigration policies.
We think that anti-immigrant sentiment might depend on the total amount of illegal immigration but is faced by both legal and illegal immigrants.
As news articles become more popular for illegal immigration, when more crimes are committed by illegal immigrants simply because there are more in the country, we think that we'll see an increase in anti-immigrant sentiment.
This pushes out legal immigrants and makes their lives worse, despite the fact that they operate entirely in the system and have no real culpability for these harms.
Secondly, we think that politicians who may feel anti-immigrant sentiment are likely to take illegal immigration numbers into account when trying to define the yearly allowance for immigrants as a whole, making it so illegal immigrants literally take spots from legal immigrants.
Additionally, we think that as illegal immigration is easier, there's just simply less of a reason for legal immigration.
Additionally, as anti-immigrant laws and biases are passed as illegal immigration increases, all people are harmed.
For instance, in arizona, when cops could pull someone over simply because they suspected they were an illegal immigrant, all immigrants suffered the harm.
And each legal immigrant who is pushed away from the country due to illegal immigration is a massive harm to to our society because each legal immigrant is more deserving and generally has a higher societal effect than illegal immigrants, who generally do not have as much benefits to society as legal ones.
My third argument is about the social cost involved in illegal immigration.
We think that illegal immigrants are more likely to commit crimes because they cannot receive as much welfare and because they're far more likely to be owed or to owe money to individuals who brought them over the border illegally.
Additionally, we think that they're less likely to call emergency services in fear that they might be deported, and they're far likely to drive wages down, as companies would like to hire illegal immigrants instead of hiring legal immigrants or just legal workers in general.
This harms taxpaying individuals at the benefit of corporations.
For this reason, we should fight illegal immigration.