We should adopt teacher tenure reform.
The current system of teacher reform is fundamentally broken.
It rewards individuals simply for existing within the school system.
What this means is that new teachers are routinely punished simply because they are new, and old teachers who were able to get their job at a time of prosperity and when teaching was in high demand, are able to retain their positions regardless of how terrible they are in the classroom.
Because we think this is fundamentally unjust we would support the following model that throughout the united states public school districts should adopt teacher tenure reform.
What this means is that rather than allowing individuals to stay as teachers unless they commit a grievous offense, they ought to be able to be removed simply because of poor analytics, part metrics, which demonstrate that they are not teaching their children effectively.
We will allow school districts to determine whether a a teacher is failing rather than simply making the federal government use metrics on a test but generally, students will be evaluated at the beginning and end of the year to determine if they've truly learned things in a teacher's classroom providing greater autonomy and choice to school districts as a whole.
We have two arguments for why this is a good thing.
First, better teachers will be rewarded.
In the status quo, elderly teachers are able to keep their job simply because they have been in the school district for a long time.
This can be they can retain their position for one of two reasons.
Either first, they were able to get in at a time of prosperity.
Many teachers who were able to get their jobs in the eighties and nineties as cities were booming and school schools were being built were not really good teachers.
Because there was such a high demand for teachers at these times they were able to get their job and stay in their job despite being terrible teachers right from the beginning.
The other kind of teacher who is problematic are those teachers who were once good but as they got older and complacent they understood they didn't need to work as hard and as such, their students suffered.
We would say that reforming teacher tenure will fix both of these problems.
First, the teachers who were never good, who were able to get their jobs in the time of prosperity will simply be removed from their positions outright.
Because they're going to be unable to reform themselves, we would say that they will removed from their positions unless they truly rework themselves and revamp themselves to be better educators.
Those teachers who were once good will then get the greater incentive to continue being good to continue working hard on behalf of their students to teach effectively.
This is incredibly important for two reasons.
First, we think that students ought be able to have the best education possible.
The role of the school system is to ensure that individuals can take on the world, can essentially follow whatever path they see fit based on the education given to them.
Failing at early levels, particularly k through twelve, typically puts individuals on a path towards failure.
Additionally, this'll be effective because it will allow new teachers to get into the workforce overall.
In the status quo, if there are too many old teachers, new teachers cannot break in at all.
We would say that new teachers being in the workforce is generally good simply because they bring new ideas and new strategies.
Having it so teacher tenure reform is removed and bad teachers can be removed outright, will allow new teachers to break into the system and teach more effectively.
Now my second argument is about better unions.
We would say that the current major issue that unions fight for is teacher tenure.
They refuse outright to negotiate with individuals who want to remove teacher tenure.
What this means is that they typically do not focus on other issues similarly, elderly individuals within the unions, those who know that their jobs are completely protected, refuse to engage with any other policy because they know that their job is safe.
This creates antagonism on both sides, the union side and the employer side.
Would say that removing teacher tenure reform from the table is far more likely to create greater push for policies like increased teacher salary, increased resources for teachers and better curriculum control on behalf of teachers increasing education throughout the country far more effectively than teaching keeping teacher tenure.
For this reason, I am so proud to support this motion.