I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end development aid.
Development aid is in incredibly important tool for US foreign policy.
Beyond that, it is an incredibly important ideological tool.
It allows the united states to pay back restitutions and reparations to nations that it has destroyed through -s colonialist and imperialist powers.
Although this is largely the rallying cry of the far left in america, it is important to recognize that states like venezuela, states like guatemala, have all been the victims of US intervention.
At times this is because the united states was afraid of communism.
At times it was because the united states wanted to support its one of its largest agricultural corporations, united fruit.
Either way, by destroying states around the world for US interests it profited off the misery of individuals who committed no crime other than simply not being born in the united states.
With that in mind, I have three arguments but first an overview.
When my opponent says we can still have tied aid, it is important to note that we can still have tied and conditional aid but we cannot have tied development aid.
We believe that this is not allowed by the motion which explicitly states that we will end development aid completely that is to say, all aid used for developing a nation.
My first argument then is about restitution and reparations.
As I've stated before, there is a moral obligation to help those who have been harmed by US actions.
Two reasons why.
First, we would generally say that the US is a wealthy nation and as such, should help those in need.
When someone has more than they need to help their own citizens and to help themselves, is good to give the surplus to other individuals.
This is especially true when the surplus goods will be more valuable in the hands of someone who has experienced extreme poverty and many individuals in your own nation.
It is even more true when considering the fact that the united states forced these nations into poverty in many situations and as such, must pay them back if they want to maintain its their status as a just and fair nation.
Secondly under this though, we think that this is valuable from a pragmatic standpoint as well for both the US and the nation that we are helping.
Why is this the case?
We first think it's effective at increasing the education and economic standing of a nation.
This is the best way to remove corruption from a state because when individuals know the operations of their government they are far more likely to use their democratic power to manipulate their government so it is more free and fair.
This goes directly against my opponent's claim this builds dependency and feeds corruption.
My next argument then, is about how this is good for the US and its allies vis-a-vis trade and foreign policy.
One of the strongest tools in the united states arsenal is soft power through development aid.
As we pay more money to educate a citizenry, as we spend money supporting the courts and justice within a nation, those nations are far more willing to work with us to root out terrorists, to root out violent factions within their own country.
This saves the US security costs and saves the US lives which is generally beneficial.
Additionally, we think that this creates a far better situation for trade.
Small states generally can only get effective income through tariffs.
This is because they cannot levy income tax or levee other forms of tax unless there is a strong bureaucratic and electronic way in which payments are processed.
As such, they are far more likely to have these kinds of tariffs especially on common goods.
We think that this is an effective tool in supporting states making sure they don't need to use tariffs while allowing the citizens to still afford those goods without having to pay higher costs through these tariffs.
This increases trade between the two states and is generally beneficial.
As such, we should not end development aid.