I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should prohibit carrying a concealed weapon.
Recognize that in the united states, as with most places, prohibiting concealed weapons is akin to banning weapons writ large.
The reason why is twofold: one, the vast majority of weapons are just designed to be held in secret.
Knives, guns, both of these are designed to be in holsters that are difficult to see and hard to find.
Unless someone's walking around with an assault rifle, we don't think that they usually have their weapon out in the open.
Secondly, though, we think that lots of people have an incentive to keep their weapon concealed.
If they have their weapon openly showing, they're far more likely to be attacked.
They're far more likely to deal with sudden violence if they cannot see if someone wants to obtain that weapon.
With that in mind, we must recognize that prohibiting concealed weapons is effectively banning weapons writ large.
This leads to two big issues, first off is constitutionality.
We think the the constitution is incredibly important because it is the fundamental document that defines how the american society operates.
Each and every law was passed with the understanding that it met the constitution's standards.
Additionally, investments were made.
People were born and died understanding that the government would abide by constitutional practices.
That is to say, I may have made a company, let's say, a satire magazine, with the understanding that the first amendment would protect my rights.
If we start to ignore the constitution, we betray the trust of all people, but in terms of immediate economic harms, those who've invested in industries that may be seen as unsavory or potentially got benefits as a result of constitutional protections are now likely to see this diminished.
So not only is there a profound rights violation, but we additionally believe that a lot of the economic benefits that come from a clear system of rights and the foreign engagement that comes from a clear system of rights would be diminished.
Now why is this unconstitutional?
The second amendment to the US constitution says that people have the right to hold and bear arms.
It provides the right for a well-regulated militia made up of individuals who can have their own weapons.
Banning weapons writ large is fundamentally unconstitutional because it goes against the second amendment.
The supreme court, the way that we determine the whether the constitution is still meaningful in a certain arena, has decided that this constitutional protection, this right still exists and must be protected.
Now even if this weren't an outright ban, even if we were only banning concealed weapons in terms of the actual effect that this has, we think that the result of this policy is still fundamentally unfair.
The the supreme court has decided that the second amendment extends to concealed weapons, so trying to ban them would still be unconstitutional.
My second argument is safety.
Now there's two big safety concerns: first off are those who live in dangerous areas, who need to have a weapon to protect themselves.
We are effectively telling individuals who are already disenfranchised, many people who don't have access to police, that their safety doesn't matter, that they have no right to protect themselves, which we think is fundamentally rights violative.
Not only will they feel unsafe on a day-to-day basis, they're far more likely to be the victims of crime and violence.
But secondly, we think that this pushes people to hold more dangerous weapons.
Sure, a person with a pistol is dangerous, but a person with an AK forty seven is considerably more scary.
We think that getting rid of concealed weapons will push more individuals into holding bigger weapons, more dangerous weapons.
And if they feel violated or if someone wants to take those weapons, they're more likely to be used and more likely to go off.
This creates mass death as a potential in any situation, which we think is fundamentally unfair to people as it diminishes their quality of life and peace of mind, but also just horrific if these deaths occur.
To this end, we should not prohibit carrying a concealed weapon.