We should protect the antarctic continent.
Antarctica is one of the most critically endangered places, as global warming expands.
Because global warming is primarily anthropogenic, we would say that there is a clear obligation for humans to actively protect the antarctic continent and as such, we support the following model: that they'll be massive steps against global warming, against greenhouse gas emissions, and there will be further restriction against development and action in the antarctic continent, including things like ice breakers going through the region and developments to mine oil.
Three arguments for why we should protect the antarctic continent, but first an overview.
Recognize that the only arguments opp will have for their side is the idea of markets, that markets might eventually solve climate change are just generally a good thing.
We would say that a human-based system which has continually failed and continually fed into global warming will never solve the issue and as such, any arguments for markets will ultimately just feed into the system, which we are against, and ultimately lead to the demise of humanity.
First argument: the idea of beauty.
We would say that the antarctic has unique beauty.
It's unseen by many, there are not many similar environments around the world, and is profoundly powerful, glaciers move, develop there are a variety of animals which people have not come face to face with before.
As such, we would say the destruction of the antarctic continent is essentially a theft from all of humanity.
There is inherent beauty to the nature, or excuse me, to the beauty of nature and, as we destroy it, we fundamentally take away the ability for others to consume it themselves.
Because we think this is fundamentally unjust, it ought not be allowed.
But furthermore, the idea that markets will somehow replace this is incorrect.
Even if global warming is stopped, there's no way to truly bring back the sublime beauty of the area.
Now my second argument is the idea of natural rights.
We would say that animals ought be given some moral consideration.
We would say that sentience is the only logical standard for rights.
Any other standard, the idea of intelligence, the idea of syntax, excludes certain humans, those with developmental disorders, those who've gone to comas, it would essentially label them as individuals who have no right, particularly a right to life.
We think the right to life is fundamental, so any logical system which provides the this right to humans will likely provide that same right to animals, as they have sentience as well.
We would say that actions which directly destroy the environment, where we know that there's clear cause and effect, are as such unjustifiable.
It represents the murder of millions of animals around the world.
But particularly in the antarctic environment, we would say that there's a particular obligation to save this animals these animals as their deaths also cause profound suffering, as many animals starve or drown as the glaciers are destroyed.
We think this is profoundly inhumane, but also that they have a right to life we ought protect.
Now my third and final argument is the idea of existential protection.
This is fairly straightforward, and that's why I getting to it last.
Essentially, if we continue down the path that we are going now, all of humanity will be threatened.
We would say that if there are no more glaciers, this is a massive loss of fresh water sources to northern states which we think is incredibly dangerous, but we'd also say rising sea levels puts many coastal cities puts many coastal cities in danger.
States like tuvalu are already going under water and people who live in these states, typically poor individuals, have a reciprocal there's a reciprocal obligation to them as much of the wealth in the modern world has been built upon the poor cities on the coasts.
Secondly, though, we lose a huge amount of knowledge as the continent is destroyed.
Certain species which are now extinct exist in the glaciers, and certain scientific discoveries have been made of about them which have helped save lives.
Essentially, destroying the antarctic continent represents a huge loss of life which can never be justified through increased markets.
Thank you.