We should subsidize distance education.
Unfortunately, the right to an education has been unfulfilled for many individuals.
Because creating a school is incredibly expensive, particularly when you have to staff it with teachers and have effective resources for education, many individuals have fallen through the cracks and are no longer able to obtain what would otherwise be essential to live an efficacious life in our society.
We think that distance education is incredibly important both because it is cheap for the average student which is to say each additional student does not increase the cost, but also because it allows individuals who are far off in the world who are incredibly far from a school to still access education without having to sacrifice the entirety of their lives trying to get there or otherwise trying to pay for an education themselves.
With that in mind, we would support the following model, that governments around the world provide a substantial subsidy for distance education particularly for education which coops or otherwise changes currently existing university education which is to say if it is taught by university lecturers and using the course topics typically available in college, high school, middle school, and traditional schools in general.
Three arguments two arguments.
First off on access.
We think that there is an inherent right to education.
All individuals are equally deserving in our store of knowledge.
No individual has been able to gain their own knowledge without help from another person.
That is to say all knowledge which currently exists has been a direct result of cooperative effort.
It is impossible to say that any achievement, any story was a result of a single person's actions both because the vast majority of discoveries have been a result of multiple people working toward the same goal, but also because those individuals received an education which was either paid for by the public or paid for by their parents.
In either case they did not earn it themselves.
We think that the lottery of birth should not determine whether a person has access to an education, instead we would say that there's a human right to education and to self empowerment.
Now we think that having greater access to these individuals will empower them for a few reasons.
First, because the vast majority of jobs, particularly high paying jobs, require an education to get.
By providing a distance education and by subsidizing it to guarantee it is effective and that resources are going to it, we will allow individuals to get enough education to receive this high paying job.
We would also say that you can empower individuals politically through education as well.
Education is typically a bar to understanding political discourse.
Much discourse occurs at a college level or higher.
As such, we think that educating individuals on things like english and on the current state of the world will allow them to better understand the political system and become a more educated part of the citizenry.
My second argument is about cost.
We think that this is will be inherently cheaper than the average education system.
As such, in areas which can afford a school or in areas which are trying to decide whether to build a school or fund other programs, we can have distance education and guarantee that there is enough money for things like welfare or starving poverty alleviation.
This will guarantee that individuals are able to lift themselves out of poverty even if they do not access education.
Secondly under this point we think that subsidizing a distance education, particularly the purchasing of distance education, will bring in considerably more investment into its production.
If we effectively allow producers to charge far less than they actually earn in profit, there's a huge incentive to increase the amount of distance education available creating greater competition and guaranteeing that distance education quality increases.
As such, we should subsidize distance education.