We should abolish electronic voting.
Electronic voting is strictly worse than paper voting or any other kind of tallying votes.
Although it may be seen as more efficient, it has largely been ineffective in guaranteeing fair and free elections.
Not only is it incredibly easy to tamper with electronic votes, there's also no way in which they can be effectively recorded and they necessarily trade off with paper ballots, making paper ballots worse the more we use electronic voting.
As such, we would say that the united states should abandon its use of electronic voting in all elections.
Three arguments why: first, electronic voting is hackable.
It is been shown, time and time again, that electronic voting is easily hackable.
At security conferences, electronic voting has been tampered with with very little recourse for change.
Not only that, but remote execution of code in electronic voting machines has been demonstrated.
What this means is that a hacker, that is to say, someone with no ability to have harm taken against them, that means people who are regularly overseas, can tamper with voting machines and change the results.
This is catastrophic.
The ability for any individual or any foreign government to change the results of an election simply by executing a few lines of remote code is an incredible danger to our democracy.
Not only that, we would say that once a voting machine is hacked, it's not hard to change the values to create substantial change in the voting mechanisms, once you are within it.
All you have to do is increment up the votes for one candidate by ten thousand and increment down the votes for another candidate by twenty five thousand.
That alone could change an entire precinct and change a massive amount of a given election.
The inability to maintain a free and fair democracy represents a total failure on behalf of government.
We would say, first, that this necessarily undermines the rights and responsibilities of all citizens in insofar as they have a meaningful, capable role in our voting system.
Not only that, we think that governments who are voted into power through election fraud are far less likely to crack down on it and as such, we must act now before a government elected purely of corrupt individuals is voted into power.
My second argument is that there's very little record and that these records are destroyable.
It's incredibly easy to say that a given server was wiped because it was thought to be no longer useful or that a power cord is ripped out the wall accidentally and as such, someone lost all the data involved in a given election.
Losing tens of thousands of paper ballots, saying that tens of thousands of paper ballots were burned, requires an individual to say that there was some conceded and meaningful effort to lose these ballots or simply that there a have gross incompetence.
As such, we think that it is incredibly easy to hold people accountable for destroying paper evidence, but not electronic evidence.
This is meaningful because as elections have fraud, as elections can be meaningfully altered by the people running them, because voter suppression is incredibly common, we think that is essential to have these sort of voting records to guarantee that we have a meaningful democracy.
Electronic voting simply does not allow this and as such, it must be removed.
My third and final argument is that electronic voting trades off with paper ballots.
We're seeing worse and worse ballots as time goes on in terms of paper ballots.
We see things like butterfly ballots which may have changed the results of the two thousand elections, simply because they were unreadable.
We see that paper ballots are less likely to be printed, so a given precinct can tell people of color, can tell people they want to disenfranchise, the voting machine is down, you do not get to vote this election.
It's incredibly easy for the suppression to occur simply because we do not use paper ballots.
By getting rid of electronic voting, the excuses involved in voter suppression become considerably weaker.
As such, we should abolish electronic voting.