We should abandon the use of disposable diapers.
For anyone who hasn't been a parent disposable diapers may seem as a incredibly small harm to our environment or to the costs of the average consumer and yet, children are disgusting.
They go through dozens of diapers per day on a bad day and at least double digit numbers of diapers on the average day.
We think that because disposable diapers are massively harmful to our environment and because they are incredibly costly, it is essential that the government steps in and bans them.
We think that they're the only actor who can take a meaningful step against disposable diapers and guarantee that individuals have access to reusable diapers rather than a trash monster, trash filling, item such as disposable diapers.
My first argument is about when governments can ban particular items.
We think that there should be a high bar for governments to ban things but when a certain object or item meets the criteria the government must step in to take action.
The criteria as such are first, if there are third party harms involved in a particular item.
I'll discuss this later but we think that there are environmental harms involved with disposable diapers.
In the past we have allowed environmental harms to go largely unanswered or unaffected by regulation from government.
But the only way in which we can fight global warming, the only way in which you can reform our environment to in essential extent if we create a standard of action against environmentally harmful goods.
Secondly, government can step in if there are market externalities.
We think that the price of diapers are largely not reflective of the harms that they cause to society or more accurately to the environment.
We think that when there are market externalities, the government must step then because an externality by definition is an inability for the market to reflect and resolve particular harms to individuals.
Thirdly, we think if there's a social stigma against a particular action the government should step in to promote good behavior.
We think there's a stigma against individuals using reusable diaper.
They're seen as hippies or as disgusting.
We think that government should step in to resolve this.
Now first argument about the individual harms the immediate harms of disposable diapers is regarding the environmental harm that they cause.
We think that there's a massive resource cost to produce diapers.
They destroy forests.
There's a mass amount of oil they use and they're used in huge amounts.
As such, they cost an incredible amount to produce in terms of their environmental footprint.
But secondly, we think that they fill landfills.
A diaper filled with urine and other things released from a baby become incredibly large and are incredibly disgusting.
They fill up landfills but are not biodegradable and as such, stay as disgusting balls of filth for hundreds of years, destroying our areas, making whole areas uninhabitable, and largely undermining the attempts of environmental conservationists.
My third and final argument is about the costs involved with disposable diapers.
We think that individuals have a difficulty finding reusable diapers in the status quo because they are stigmatized and because they're not readily popular.
We think that if we were to ban disposable diapers, there would be an increase in the total amount of research into reusable diapers, the supply of reusable diapers would increase substantially, and although the demand would also increase by similar amount, each individual who buys a renewable diaper will not have to buy any more going into the future and as such, supply will massively outstrip demand making it so disposable diapers go away and reusable diaper become very popular and cheap.
For this reason, we should abandon disposable diapers.