I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should limit the right to self-defense.
We think that the right to self-defense is largely inalienable.
When individuals feel threatened, when they feel like their life is truly in danger, we think that they have an obligation to protect themselves.
When individuals fail to act on their own behalf, they will ultimately suffer incredible consequences.
To that end, we think it is important that the government does not massively limit the right to self-defense or put undue burdens on those who feel threatened.
My opponent's model is essentially to use a stricter standard to evaluate real threats against the individual.
This standard would largely lead to a decrease in the ability for individuals to protect themselves, but I first want to discuss this brief observation before I do my rebuttal and then my individual arguments.
What my opponent talks about at length is that people can simply kill without any repercussions, or they can violently act against another person and the court will do nothing to change that.
Here's the thing, though.
The court can effectively determine whether or not a threat was credible, even if it was not real violence.
On my opponent's side of the house, if I hurt somebody, it is only just if I knew they had a gun in the first place.
That is to say, if they were threatening me and I try to protect myself and it turns out they didn't have a gun, they didn't have a knife, I would go to jail.
This means that the only time people can act is if they have a gun, if they've seen a gun or a knife, and know that their life is actively being threatened.
The problem is when you see this kind of danger, we think that you take incredible damage as a result.
This leads to two points of rebuttal.
My first my opponent's first argument was about police brutality, about how if you limit the right to self-defense for the average citizen, we think that police brutality will go down.
But that's the opposite of the truth.
The police will always have a monopoly on violence.
There is two things in place that protect police officers from ever facing justice.
First is sovereign immunity.
The government has a free pass to do essentially anything it wants.
It cannot be held accountable in court because it is the sovereign and the sovereign, as the maker of the rules, cannot be held accountable under those rules.
Police are acting as extensions under of the state and under the aegis of the state.
As such, we think that changing the self-defense standard doesn't change the standard in court.
But secondly, we think this just doesn't change how people approach the situation.
We think that police officers act the same way.
We think that the average individual is still afraid.
We think that jurors will still refuse to actually try them because effective prosecutors and effective defense attorneys will say, " but wait.
This was just part of their job.
This was just them feeling having to prove their safeness. "
My opponent's next argument is that real danger means less false positives, but I addressed this in my first argument when I talk about preventative action.
We think that when individuals feel threatened, a credible threat is against them, they should be able to act.
Sure, I will concede that my opponent gets fewer false positives where someone acts in self-defense, but they get more straight up murders as a result of the fact that people can't protect themselves.
We think it's incredibly important that individuals have the right to protect themselves.
We think that false positives usually don't happen, and when they do happen, it's usually someone who pulls out a gun and says, " freeze, stop, do not move. "
That's someone acting in self-defense.
But on my opponent's side of the house, they could be held accountable or essentially be charged with things like threatening or harassing if they pull out a gun.
On my side of the house, if an individual feels credibly threatened, they can stop the attack from happening in the first place.
The result then is that we get fewer murders, fewer violence against individuals.
We think that violent criminals will feel more emboldened by the fact that people are afraid to act in self-defense.
It's not hard to get next to somebody on a busy street or even just passing them in an empty alley, and once you are next to someone who you think will hurt you, they will hurt you.
Preventative action is essential in saving individuals lives and keeping them from facing this sort of violence.