I stand in strong opposition to the motion, we should ban racial profiling.
Although racial profiling is largely used to a problematic extent, if judges and juries have to determine the thoughts which go through an officer's head every time that they take a particular action, we will see the efficacy of policing decreased substantially and the general safety of our country decreased to a massive extent.
With that in mind, I have three arguments.
First, you can't tell when racial profiling is actually occurring cause all this does is punish the thought of individuals.
It says that if a police officer is acting in a way which is based on someone's race rather than their actions or other implications, then they can be punished for that kind of action.
We believe that there are already checks on the abilities of officers to actually search and seize a certain individual.
Without due process, without probable cause, a cop cannot take any action in the status quo.
This means that if they have particular attention towards a certain individual, they cannot act on it unless the jury already believes it is well-founded.
By saying that racial profiling is also banned, by saying that probable cause is not enough, you must must also have pure thoughts, many cops are less likely to be effective in policing certain areas.
This is problematic and this will always benefit the cops , not the cops, excuse me, the criminals who have the best lawyers and who can prove that the cop is acting in a problematic way simply because they have enough money to convince a jury through a well-versed and rhetorically sound lawyer.
Additionally, we think it will decrease cooperation between cops and the prosecution to a incredibly problematic extent.
If prosecutors are now taking cases against police officers due to racial profiling, they're far more likely to have division between the two groups, decreasing the total efficacy of the criminal justice system to a massive, horrific extent.
So it means more criminals will go on the street, and our entire system of justice will collapse.
My second argument is on efficacy.
We believe that racial profiling can be effective in certain cases, given that there're historical and other implications which have pushed certain individuals into taking certain actions.
There's a massive correlation between crime and poverty.
There's also a correlation between individuals who are african american and poverty.
This is not because of any innate characteristic but because the united states has pushed specific policies which destroy individuals who are wealthy and a person of color, while also seizing their capital and refusing them educational and job opportunities.
Although this is incredibly problematic, destroying racial profiling does not actually solve the underlying issues which have pushed individuals into poverty.
The purpose of cops is not to be a legislator.
It is not to reflect the will of the people or determine moral goods, rather it is simply to enforce the law.
We believe that if cops are no longer acting as enforcers of the law, but moral arbiters, they are far more likely to commit more abuses against people for moral offenses, but also generally be worse police officers writ large, which we think is incredibly problematic.
My third argument is about the effect on courts.
We believe that if racial profiling is used as a defense in a variety of situations, it will have incredibly problematic effects.
Why is this the case?
We believe that this will lead to longer legal battles as any criminal put in jail, who is also a person of color, can also take out a suit claiming racial profiling, dragging on the legal process, increasing the costs of the court process by a massive amount as appeal after appeal is filed.
We believe that the thoughts of an officer are never going to be effectively determined so all that the criminal is doing is gambling on the fact that maybe a certain jury or a certain judge might believe them in saying that they are racially profiled.
We believe that justice should not be on the dice roll but rather should be on the laws and the facts surrounding cases.
For this reason, we should not ban racial profiling.