I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should introduce recall elections.
Recall elections are a vote of &amp;hes a vote of confidence that a politician has failed in their duty.
The problem is is that they are spur of the moment, they are irrational, and they largely take away from the democratic process.
We think that policies very rarely have immediate short-term benefits and those that do, usually have bad long-term benefits.
Alternately, introducing recall elections would do little more than make politicians more terrified, make them pass worse policy, and destroy our political system.
With that in mind, I have two arguments, but first some brief rebuttal and analysis.
My opponent proposes a very odd method of introducing recall elections.
They say that a election can occur as long as twenty percent of registered voters sign a petition to recall a certain politician.
Let me ask you: have you ever seen a fair and free election where a politician won more than eighty percent of the population?
The answer is no.
If we had a system where twenty percent of registered voters would have the power to stop the political system and require another election, it would lead to incredible gridlock.
This leads to my first argument of infinite gridlock.
Imagine any politician.
I'm not talking just about federal politicians like donald trump, senator feinstein, senator warren, senator schumer, I'm talking about state politicians as well.
For instance, the local city county city council people in my area all won their seats by about sixty to seventy percent, seventy percent being the exception instead of the rule.
Every time that they pass a policy, it makes some people unhappy.
It's impossible to make a hundred percent of the population happy at all time, so even though they have a lot of die-hard supporters who think that they're doing a good job, ultimately, they will always have at least forty percent of the population unhappy with them.
Just look at presidential approval rates.
We haven't seen a president that goes into their second year or third year with over a seventy percent approval rating.
Essentially, no politician could ever avoid this sort of recall election.
They could always have a wrench thrown into their plans, could always have their system of democracy destroyed due to the fact that the opposition is willing to sign a petition and start a recall election.
Recognize, as well, that a recall election would ultimately make policy incredibly difficult, first, because it would seem with the politician doesn't have the mandate of the people and shouldn't be able to pass policy, but also just because of the time, money, and energy it takes.
We think that the opposition to any politician would also do this, because politics is a zero-sum game.
Every time that you make someone waste time or look bad, it helps your political party.
Not only that, we think that these zealots within both sides compose at least twenty percent of the population and as such, it would make it so there would continuously be recall elections.
My second argument is worse policy.
We think that in a lot of cases, politicians would be afraid.
Politicians are usually best when they're serving in their final term, because they can pass what they think is truly good policy, but now they would always be afraid that as a result of any vote that they have, they could be recalled.
But additionally, we think that they pass a lot more short-term policy.
Tax cuts usually aren't a good thing.
Unless there's already a surplus, which is incredibly rare, you don't want to cut taxes.
However, we think that cutting taxes makes you look good.
It makes people happy, but hurts the country in the long term.
This means that we're going to see politicians who always fight for the short term and never care about the long term.
You can't wait four years for a policy to come to fruition, because the next day you could lose your place on whatever position you have.
For this reason, we should not introduce recall elections.