We should introduce universal health care.
It is unacceptable that we live in such a wealthy state and yet individuals die of preventable diseases on a daily basis.
Individuals go without effective healthcare simply because of the lottery of birth and the situation that they were forced into.
Because poverty should not be a criminal sentence, because we should not pass morality because someone lives in poverty, it is very clear that we should pass universal healthcare.
This model be fairly simple.
We will adopt a european model where there's a single payer system.
All individuals will pay a higher rate of taxation particularly at the upper echelons of our society and that money will be used to pay for healthcare needs for all individuals.
Doctor's wages may decrease somewhat but they'll only decrease by at most about ten percent and their entire wages, the payment to hospitals, will all be done by these sort this universal healthcare system.
We would also say that insurance companies will be abolished so individuals will pay less on their insurance premiums as well.
First off, on how we can pay for this second, on why government has an obligation to provide this and third, on the advantages this has for society.
We believe that it would be very easy to fund this kind of system.
The vast majority of individuals in the united states already pay insurance which cost them massive amounts per year.
These insurance companies need to have make a profit every single year and as such, they're able to gouge the individuals who they serve and are actually required to charge a higher rate than their these individuals medical costs in order for them to actually continue to offer their insurance services.
Government is different.
Government does not need to run a surplus.
They can run at zero profitability or negative profitability through this kind of tax system.
This means it would be very easy for government to pay for this sort of system without actually losing any of the quality which comes from our healthcare system in the status quo.
My second argument is about government obligation.
We believe that government has an obligation to provide essential services.
They provide things like police and firefighters because private industry always fails at this.
Why do we see this?
First, these private industries can go under.
This means that they are if they fail, if a hospital fails, if your insurance company fails, it is very likely and possible that you will suffer massive damages as a result of this kind of policy.
Although the individual is unlikely to be massively harmed as a result of a company going under, the fringe cases, the edge cases where someone has a massive amount of medical bills and then their company simply cannot pay for it, can lead to essentially a lost life.
Someone who has to pay off their bills for the rest of their life and can never actually move up in society.
Second, we think that the government cannot gouge individuals.
Having a system where it is free rather than a system in which insurance companies charge exuberant prices because all individuals need healthcare to survive means that individuals will feel more comfortable and the system will be more efficient overall.
It is unclear why people in poverty to not deserve some part of healthcare given that poverty is largely a condition of someone's birth or social statuses and and social pressures which push them into things like drugs, alcohol, or crime.
My third argument is about how there are mass advantages to all individuals.
So at the point where we can pay for this, at the point where the government has an obligation to provide it, it is incredibly clear that we should do it but at the point where there are also advantages to the whole of society, it becomes obvious that we should introduce universal health care.
So first, we believe that there are returns to scale in the healthcare industry.
When you can pay for databases, when you can pay for medical studies, you it serves to be a larger institution which provides health care.
At the point where you can transfer doctors from hospital to hospital based on their need and specialization, you can also get better care for all individuals.
By linking every hospital and doctor together, government can save money while providing better forms of healthcare.
Secondly, if individuals can access preventative care, if they don't need to go to the hospital when a cancer is at a fatal level and simply just starting to develop, this means that individuals will largely pay less healthcare costs in the long term.
Will mean that all individuals will save on healthcare.
For this reason, we should introduce universal health care.