We should abolish the filibuster.
The filibuster comes in two forms: first is the procedural filibuster.
It prevents legislation from being put to a vote with a majority of votes and instead requires sixty signatures or sixty votes in the senate to actually be put into motion.
The other form of filibustering is when someone takes the floor and refuses to cede their time for any circumstances until time runs out, effectively preventing any bills from being passed.
I have two arguments for why the filibuster should be abolished.
First, the filibuster is anti-democratic.
A basic principle of our society is that the good is subjective and because of that and because of that subjectivity, we defer to the will of the people to decide on policy.
However, the filibuster is blatantly anti-democratic in that a single senator can hold up the will of the majority.
While it is true that some anti majoritarian measures exist in the status quo, the existence of those does not justify an additional anti-democratic measure.
We think that introducing this is fundamentally unjust.
A filibuster is a particularly bad anti-democratic measure as well.
In order to get things passed, the minority needs power needs to be satisfied.
It requires going to them and making compromises despite the fact that the people have not put them into power.
This inevitably means that on anything but the most uncontroversial issues, the minority often has more power in shaping the bill than the majority.
Regardless of the extent of the minority protections that one might advocate for, is inconsistent with any form of a just democracy to give minority that much power over the fate of policy.
Moreover, the filibuster leads to a runaround of executive power, an evenly divided congress.
In such cases, the vice president, as a representative of the executive, is now supposed to step in.
Now what happens is that instead of a nationally elected representative dealing with ties, a rogue senator from one state must make that decision, that is to say, the vice president who is simply appointed by the president.
Finally, the filibuster is inconsistent with constitutional structure and precedent.
The constitution explicitly lays out six instances when senate voted voting should require a super majority: impeaching the president, expelling members, overriding a presidential veto of a bill or order, ratifying treaties, and amending the constitution.
Also, many discussions at that time, including the federalist papers, explicitly rejected the idea that the senate should require a super majority for precisely the reasons that we lay out.
At that point, it should be clear that the founders, in the constitution that they wrote, very much did not intend for the senate to include a filibuster.
We would argue that in order for people to meaningfully consent to the form of government in which they live that government must be ruled according to the considered rules of its constitution.
Given that, the filibuster is inconsistent with the constitution.
We should eliminate it.
That alone is a reason why the filibuster is truly unjust.
My second argument is the filibuster harms accountability.
The use of the filibuster often makes transparency impossible.
When an individual chooses to filibuster a bill, it doesn't even go onto the floor for debate in most situations.
This happens all the time.
Moreover, recognize that the vast majority of citizens have no idea when a filibuster is going up, because they happen behind closed doors with the procedural filibuster.
When you add to this the fact that most americans have never even heard of the filibuster itself, you end up with a senate that is far from transparent.
Additionally, recognize that each time that congress is stopped, each time policies are not being passed, the majority party will always be blamed.
This makes it so there's always an incentive for the minority party to continuously filibuster and prevent any progress from coming, to always create gridlock, because it will benefit their party into the long run.
For this reason we should abolish the filibuster.