The energy industry should be nationalized.
With large common utilities, the government is usually far better at providing these sort of goods than private industry.
Particularly in the case of energy where, if you do not have access to electricity or other forms of energy, you simply do not have access to modern ways of living.
We think that this asymmetry of power and this essential requirement to have this energy in the first place means that companies can unduly abuse their customers to an unacceptable extent.
Furthermore, we think monopolies should usually be regulated by government.
Because energy is a natural monopoly, that is to say there can only be one company that owns the power lines under the streets, we think it is essential that the government controls it as they are far less likely to abuse monopoly power than other groups who are always seeking a profit.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that the electricity industry should be nationalized, that the government should take control, through eminent domain, of all power lines and of all power factories, and if companies refuse to sell them, if they refuse to give them up, the government should simply build more to accommodate the need.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on returns to scale.
We think that energy is always more efficient when it's done by a larger company.
Bigger companies can buy newer equipment, can have more workers in more areas, and there's no larger organization than the united states government.
The massive scale of the united states and the capacity of the united states to put so many resources into the energy industry means that they can make it considerably more efficient.
Being able to hire workers at a discounted rate, being able to negotiate with other individuals and contract with foreign governments to get special resources means that the government will always be able to produce energy at a cheaper cost.
We think reducing that the cost of energy is essential.
I'll discuss why energy is a social good in my third argument but, very briefly, we think cheaper energy means more innovation, more people willing to actually use the amenities that are given to them and, largely, a better quality of life for everyone.
My second argument is about how the government avoids patents.
The government will always try to innovate.
We think that if the energy industy is inefficient, if it's not effective, bureaucrats will be blamed, politicians will be voted out of office and, as such, there's always an incentive for these people to innovate in order to keep their jobs.
It simply puts a higher burden on politicians, which we think isn't very high in the first place.
We think it's beneficial for the energy industry to avoid the use of patents for a few reasons.
First, we think that innovation that occurs on the government level has no real profit incentive, so if they were to invent a more efficient way to transport energy, they wouldn't patent it and essentially hold that patent over billions of people.
Secondly, we think that avoiding patents is good as if they need to buy a patent from someone else, they have incredible leverage.
They can essentially say, " if you don't give us the rights to your patent, then no one will ever be using your patent, " because, once again, the energy industry is nationalized, so any energy industry patents can we got at a massive massively discounted rate.
Each discount given to the nationalized energy industry will always be passed off to consumers, which is generally a good thing.
My third and final argument is about how energy should be subsidized.
We think that energy is a social good.
The more access you have to energy, the more ability you have to produce things that your neighbors can use, to live a happy quality of life that happen to depend on other people, to be able to pay for things like wifi which other people can use if your network is open.
Generally, we think the cheaper energy is, the happier people are.
We think that direct subsidization would be good, which can occur through nationalization, but also indirect subsidization is also good.
What we mean by indirect subsidization is that the energy industry, if it's nationalized, won't be as profit seeking and as such, will generally be cheaper.
Easier access to energy means easier access to a modern quality of life and for this reason, the energy industry should be nationalized.