I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should end the blockade on the gaza strip.
My opponent talks at length about how this is ineffective at fighting terror.
I'm going to prove two things in this speech: first, that stopping the blockade ultimately expands the power of terror and will massively weaken the position of both the united states and israel.
The second thing I'm going to prove, which I'll prove right now, is that regardless of the opinions and actions of terrorists, we think that punishing them for their action is a requirement for any just state.
Now, why do we think that the state must act to sanction terrorists?
If they don't, they are essentially going without punishment for their crimes.
It is incredibly difficult to catch them as there are many individuals in the area who they can blend in with.
Additionally, the only other way in which we can fight terror effectively is it by attacking major areas where we think terrorists might be, but that also kills civilians as well.
As such, the blockade is the only meaningful way in which we can punish terrorists, which is a requirement for any just state who, first, has an obligation to its own citizens, and second, ought to just prioritize geopolitical stability in order to protect its own position and the position of its allies.
My next argument is about how stopping the blockade means losing a bargaining chip.
We think that terror is discouraged now.
Terrorists necessarily will use the end of the blockade to further expand their power.
They'll say that israel has essentially given up its fight against these sort of terrorists and, as such, they are far more likely to expand their recruiting base and to take more violent action.
However, by keeping the blockade, we can say we will put the blockade back if only if terrorism stops.
We can use the blockade as a bargaining chip and start negotiations with legitimate palestinian powers, and even terrorist leaders, and say: as long as terror is stopping, we will stop the blockade.
By giving away this bargaining chip willy nilly, without any actual enforcement behind it, we think that we will ultimately cause more death and destruction than the alternative.
My second argument is that the blockade creates a political push against terror.
I would agree somewhat that the political that the blockade on gaza does anger the citizens of gaza and makes them less likely to side with israel.
However, it also makes them angry at terrorists.
We think that individuals who can no longer afford food, who can no longer find a job, will be angry at the terrorists who are necessarily one half of the equation which is preventing them from actually self-actualizing.
We think that public support for terror is key as individuals being willing to harbor terrorists, to fund terrorists, are the framework on which terrorism can build itself.
As such, by creating a political push against terrorism in the region, we think we will ultimately weaken hamas and other similar terrorist organizations.
My third and final argument is that this will anger israelis.
We think that israel has a massive political bloc made up of more orthodox and conservative individuals who believe that palestine ought to be sanctioned.
By ending the sort of blockade, we are far more likely to see a more conservative government get into power, who are far more likely to sponsor settlements, sponsor violent action against palestinian citizens, and ultimately further diminish the rights of palestinians while further expanding terrorism as a response.
To this end, we should not end the blockade on the gaza strip.