I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit natural gas.
Natural gas is a dirty and largely inefficient tool which has been abandoned by many markets because of these reasons.
Further exploitation of natural gas would be taking a in ahistorical and anti-progress position which largely harms the entirety of the earth.
I have a brief overview before three arguments why we should not further exploit natural gas.
My overview is about how the market truly operates.
The market operates in a way which they can minimize cost and maximize profit.
This means that natural gas is currently being used to the greatest extent possible.
Markets largely do not internalize externalities.
This is why they're called externalities.
When natural gas harms the environment, when natural gas poisons individuals do the fracking, this is not reflected in the cost.
This means that the only possibility in the status quo is that firms are currently using natural gas to the maximum extent possible that harms or using it more than necessary which is the far more likely because given that in competitive markets firms need to save costs wherever possible and are unlikely to care about externalities.
The only thing that further exploiting natural gas could do is make our market less efficient and contribute more to global warming.
This leads me to my first argument about efficiency.
This is largely a refutation to all of my opponent's arguments because if I demonstrate that natural gas is inefficient, it should clearly be abandoned for alternative energies.
Now why is natural gas inefficient?
First, we think in the long term it will always be outclassed by alternative forms of energy.
Why is this the case?
Alternative energy requires incredibly little infrastructure to create.
It costs incredibly little to mine and continue and additionally it has no environmental harm or incredibly little environmental harm when looking at things like nuclear power and hydroelectric power.
Now into the long term, this will always save money on the diseases that people would get, on the destruction of the environment that is aggregated across all individuals in terms of harms and as such, it's clearly not more effective or more cheap.
But even looking at the short term, we think that natural gas honestly doesn't compete with things like small modular reactors, nuclear power.
The current solar panel technology which has taken leaps and bounds in the last decade, as such, continued use of natural gas is largely based on political outcomes and political goals which do not reflect the will of the people and largely serve to make special interests more powerful.
My second argument is about global warming.
That global warming is an existential threat to all of humanity in the long term if we do not have major changes like abandoning natural gas, global warming will raise sea levels, destroy whole areas, and largely lead to a incredible loss of life unprecedented throughout history.
That but even in the short term, we're seeing massive harms as a result of global warming.
Nation of tuvalu is already partially underwater due to rising sea levels.
There are already economic refugees who are destabilizing states as they go across borders because their own state has been destroyed.
In the long term this will lead to incredible loss of life which is unjustifiable in any world.
My final argument is about the environmental harms of natural gas.
Now this is distinct from global warming cause it discusses things like smog and the aesthetic and immediate harms rather than the long term and global harms of this kind of environmental destruction.
Now natural gas contributes a smog, it contributes to disease, but it also is mind with fracking.
Continued exploitation of natural gas because regular ways of getting it have been used to their maximum capacity, would largely lead to more fracking which has been directly related to earthquakes, poisoned water supplies, and a total destruction of areas.
As such, we should not exploit natural gas.