We should abolish intelligence tests.
Intelligence tests are inherently flawed frameworks and metrics by which individuals are tested on skills that they do not need to apply in the area where intelligence tests are regularly used.
We think they are structurally inaccurate, largely give inaccurate results due to context, and are used for incredibly problematic and ineffective results.
As such, we would support the following model: that intelligence tests be banned in school and work, that governments have no ability to use intelligence tests, that corporations have no ability to use them either.
We'll still allow basic knowledge tests for things like police work, where individuals need to know the codes or literally how to operate a particular piece of machinery to even have the job.
But we think general intelligence tests, general IQ tests, will be banned.
We'll also allow generally false organizations like mensa to continue peddling their BS as we don't think that individuals will necessarily change their opinions based on what governments actually decide to do.
Three arguments then: first on why intelligence tests are structurally inaccurate.
We think that questions will always have a bias.
This is particularly true with english literature and logic questions.
When a question is framed in a certain mindset or framed in terms that are used that a particular participant is used to they will do better.
If they are not, the individual will will do worse.
As the question becomes more vague, all people will do worse.
As the question becomes more specific, most people will do better but usually you have to go to a certain camp.
As such there will always be disparate results among individuals and the course instructors will have to choose a particular group to prefer.
They usually choose straight white men which largely leads them having the highest scores on intelligence tests and leading to a structural barrier to people of color and women as they have less access to the reins of power as intelligence tests bar them from higher level classes and better jobs.
We also think the very premise of them is inherently bias.
You cannot test everyone's knowledge.
If someone can repair every sprinkler in the state, repair every car in the state but generally isn't that good at algebra, they're still incredibly intelligent.
Intelligence tests though would tell them that they're an idiot and would put them in jobs and classes that they simply should not be in.
Because it is impossible to test all intelligence even in the realms of math, literature, and science, we think intelligence tests are inherently bad.
But we also think that they have a number of contextual inaccuracies as well.
We think that individual on a day to day basis can have incredibly different results.
If someone feels sick or well they will do incredibly differently.
If they eat a healthy breakfast versus an unhealthy breakfast or nothing, they will do better or worse.
If the weather is better they'll do better.
If the wetter weather is worse they'll do worse.
If the weather is incredibly dreary then they'll probably actually better if they have nothing to focus on.
We also think the facility changes things.
If you're in a school that is beat up or generally does not have policies in terms of kids walking down the hall and playing music, that can distract you.
As such, there's it is impossible to eliminate all of the structural inaccuracies which generally makes it so individuals cannot actually take these tests under sterile conditions and the results will always be flawed.
This brings me to my third argument regarding their poor usage.
We think that people are put into classes they don't need.
If someone scores poorly on an intelligence test they'll usually be put in remedial classes where the teacher is less prepared, is less willing to teach.
These are the students need the most focus and yet we are putting them in the worst classes with the worst resources.
As such, intelligence tests should be banned to prevent this from happening.
We also think that workers with no experience regularly get hired because of these tests.
We see this in computer science all the time where someone may be able to pass a written test from an employer but then has no abilities to work on the job.
Because there is no effective usage and because they're inherently inaccurate, intelligence tests should be abolished.