I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end the use of economic sanctions.
Economic sanctions are an incredibly important tool for world foreign policy.
Whenever a state needs to engage with another state using coercive power but without using its military force, sanctions have been a very useful and efficacious tool for creating change.
With this in mind, it is nonsensical that we would attempt to remove sanctions overall.
I recognize that many of my opponent's critiques are reasonable.
Sanctions do hurt the most well off.
Sanctions do harm long term recovery to some extent.
However, it is important to note that sanctions do not need to be used in every situation.
This leads me to my first argument that sanctions are a tool in the toolbox of foreign policy.
Now what we see is that sanctions are only put in place when there's been an in-depth reasonable discussion about the potential gains and harms that come from inaction.
We think that sanctions then, are generally only used when they are incredibly useful and when they meet certain criteria that I will discuss later.
However, for the purposes of this debate we don't need to defend the current uses of sanctions either.
Because my point wants to outright end the use of sanctions, we feel comfortable defending only the use of sanctions in certain situations with more intense scrutiny in regulation but still when they're incredibly needed.
All we need to prove in this debate is that sanctions need to be used in one or two situations to demonstrate that we should not outright abandon the use of sanctions and not have to renege on our policy going forward.
This leads to my second argument: the criteria for successful sanctions.
Now sanctions are successful if there are a few criteria that are filled.
First, if the country is unable or unwilling to turn inwards and supply the entirety of their own goods.
Now this is incredibly common.
The vast majority of states which are sanctioned actually do fall under this category and are unlikely to be able to produce everything they need on their own.
Now the second criteria that must be fulfilled is that the state cannot trade with anyone else, that sanctions are universal.
We think that this is a standard that should be used for all sanctions.
For instance, we see that north korea continues to be a threat because china is willing to trade with them.
But compare this to iran where sanctions were actually incredibly effective at creating change because their only trading partners where other sanctioned states which didn't have much resources on their own.
These kinds of sanctions pushed iran to a trade deal which is now making the middle east a safer place.
The final criteria for sanctions is that they a state wants to be accepted by the west or the international community.
We saw this in the case of south africa and apartheid.
Sanctions were incredibly useful for creating meaningful change.
The alternative, which I'll discuss later, would have been violence.
As such, because we've demonstrated that successful sanctions can occur and have occurred in the past, they should not be abandoned.
This leads me to my third argument about the policy situations truly surrounding sanctions.
First, we think that sanctions are generally not as unintelligent as my opponent suggests.
That they can be targeted towards things like caviar, yachts, boats that only go to wealthy individuals.
This makes their lives worse while also changing policy.
Second, we think that NGO's are incredibly effective at helping the poorest in societies if sanctions are occurring.
We in many cases sanctions and NGO's exist side by side to ensure that the poorest don't starve while sanctions occur.
Finally, we think that the alternative is largely a military presence or boots on the ground or allowing continued oppression.
Both of these are considerably worse than economic sanctions which are both temporary and far less likely to cause loss of life and suffering.
For this reason, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.