Casinos should be banned.
Casinos are honestly just dens of sin, dens of treachery, that prey upon the most addicted individuals in a society while draining the community of everything they are worth.
They move into small areas and take over the area, they pressure city council members as they have a huge stake in the total control of entertainment in the town, and are largely able to use their incredible funds to destroy all competition.
Because we think that casinos are inherently parasitic, we would support the following model: that all of the united states casinos should be banned and literally every single area all casinos should be destroyed or their buildings should be used for something like a community center or any place that does not have gambling.
Two arguments for why.
First, casinos harm the community.
Recognize that entertainment spending is fungible.
This means that if I go to a casino, I'm not spending as much money at restaurants or at the movies.
As such it adds incredibly little to an area.
All that it does is take money from other sources of entertainment and force them into the casino.
What once went to the baker, the movie maker, the arcade each of these is destroyed and and instead the casino takes over it ruins small businesses in the area and ultimately doesn't add to total spending effectively making them a waste of space and a waste in resources.
This is even more problematic as as it destroys things like movie theaters and arcades the only source of entertainment becomes the casino.
They can charge whatever they want if they have a movie theater inside, they if members of an area want to become entertained then they have to gamble their money away.
This is a horrific thing to do to any community and as such casinos should be banned.
But we would further say that it harms communities given that it facilitates a lot of crime.
We think that individuals who lose massive amounts of money at once are more prone to stealing and violence.
We think that individuals who drink a lot and then are sent home are far more likely to commit DUI's as such as casinos move into areas crime rates skyrocket violence skyrockets and individuals who are in no way connected to the casino never supported the casino are still harmed despite never consenting to the actions taken against them.
My second argument is that casinos are inherently immoral.
What casinos do is that they prey on addicts and in an attempt to get as much money as possible.
Using some casino nomenclature here, casinos are most interested in whales and people who will spend huge amounts of money at once on frivolous bets.
There are two types of whales: there are the people who are really rich who go to a casino and they're the addicts who are willing to spend their entire check on a single roll of the roulette wheel.
Furthermore the phrase the house always wins is very very true.
There are systems in place to suggest that when you win money you should immediately bet it again and if every single time you win you let it ride you will inevitably lose all of your money.
As such we think that casinos prey on addicts in a way that destroys their lives and continues their addiction but it also attempts to create addicts in the first place.
The marketing that it uses, the fact that destroys all their entertainment in the area, the free drinks, the free food given to people who are losing their life savings shows that casinos are simply a way to take money from people who cannot help themselves.
For this reason, casinos should be banned.