We should privatize ports.
The government is incredibly inefficient at running any form of transportation, any form of shipping, any form of handling.
We think that the government is largely made up of bureaucrats.
They're good at enforcing rules in the theoretical.
If you look at the average senator, if you look at the average civil servant even, we largely see people who don't follow the rules, don't try their hardest, and ultimately are just inefficient workers.
The fact that government pays so little and in many cases has incredible amounts of red tape ultimately means that the average person has no real reason to work there and those who find themselves working there become demoralized over time which shows in their work.
As such we think that ports and other forms of transportation that are owned by the government ultimately are poorly run, truly mismanaged, and destroy the ability for the free market to operate.
With that in mind we would propose the following model, that all present ports be auctioned off to private corporations and that we allow private ports to spring up around the united states obviously on the coasts if a certain company wants to build one.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First off is efficiency.
As I alluded to in my overview, the government is not good at creating efficient environments.
Few reasons why.
First there's no incentive to work as hard as possible or to innovate.
The corporation if you work really hard, if you do very well, if you cut costs while increasing profits, the money goes to the shareholders and they're happy.
As such they want to incentivize this.
They give you a piece of any money that you save if you're a more efficient worker, if you innovate.
You can make millions of dollars simply because you are helping the people who want to help you back.
This isn't true with government.
If you're efficient, if you innovate, people will be happy but ultimately you're saving the taxpayer taxpayer money.
This doesn't mean that someone can buy a new car, this doesn't mean that someone can buy a new boat, it just means that your money will be shifted to a new department.
In a given year, you may even have a supervisor who's unhappy that you worked as hard as possible or you innovated because now some of that money is being transferred to another department and this kind of efficiency is not sustainable so the surplus alternately hurts your department.
This clearly shows why efficiency is not good at these ports or not good at any form of government agency.
Additionally we think that the amount of red tape, the amount of demoralization that occurs as you are unable to get these kinds of bonuses, also leads to a decrease in efficiency.
We think that efficiency at ports is essential though.
As more efficient ports that cost us money for companies who both deliver and grab the goods ultimately means that we get our products at cheaper prices.
All imports will decrease in cost if we privatize ports which will improve the well-being of all americans by decreasing the amount of that these imports cost and increasing the effective income of all americans.
My second argument is about options.
We think that options are essential for a free market to operate.
If you can only pick the government owned port then you really don't have a choice.
But we think that different private companies will compete to better attract more customers to really get people into these ports in the first place.
This will do a few things.
First it will drive down the cost of shipping goods in general.
As I've already stated, this improves the effective income for all americans.
Secondly though we think that having these kind of options is essential insofar as it will allow these private corporations to innovate and compete more effectively.
When the government is the only business in town, there's no reason to try your hardest.
If you have a monopoly you simply increase prices to an unfair level and reap the benefits of your monopoly.
By destroying monopolies, by privatizing ports, you ultimately create more options, innovation, and a better world.
For this reason, we should privatize ports.