We should raise the retirement age.
The retirement age is fundamentally antiquated.
It's based on life expectancy which has not been accurate for the last five decades, and it is largely an excuse for ageist behavior.
We think that individuals at older ages should not be forced to retire at a particular age.
Instead, we should be evaluating each employee based on their relative merits and whether they are able to continue to do their job efficaciously.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that the retirement age be outright abolished, that it be somewhere in the nineties, simply because we believe that individuals should be evaluated on their own merits.
We would say that the only exception to this is jobs which require immediate response time to be effective.
We think things like bomb defusal manager should probably still have a retirement age simply because as individuals get older, they are less likely to respond effectively.
That being said, we have two arguments for why the retirement age is massively ineffective in the vast majority of spheres.
So, first, on how the retirement age is outdated.
We think that the that most people who get to the rate age of sixty five can still work.
They're still incredibly effective at programming, doing desk work, doing sales.
They have a massive amount of experience and, in many cases, a truly deep understanding of the system and how it has changed over time.
We'd secondly say that these people must work.
It's a sad reality that wages have been relatively slow-growing for the last decade or or so.
For many individuals, they do not have enough money saved to live up to ninety or even a hundred.
Because life expectancy has raised, individuals require larger saving accounts before they can retire.
Each additional year that they work is a year they don't need to depend on a savings account and can contribute more to that savings account.
As such, by abolishing the retirement age, we are far more likely to see individuals who have retired be able to retire comfortably.
This is important for a few reasons.
First, we think this generally decreases the suffering of individuals who are retired.
If they can depend on a retirement account to live comfortably, they're going to be relatively happy.
Secondly, it stops things like homelessness among the elderly.
This is important, first, because it costs huge amounts for society to how these house these people using tax dollars which could otherwise be going to other welfare programs or education, and secondly, we just think it's truly unjust.
When someone has spent the bulk of their life working, they should not be forced to be homeless.
It is a fundamental failure of government when this occurs, but is it is easily preventable within the private sector by raising the retirement age.
My second argument is that the retirement age is used to express ageism.
Many people who still want to continue working are forced out of industries because of the retirement age.
The retirement age gives employers a easy tool for pushing people out.
We think that's fundamentally unjust.
Someone who is pushed out of their job should require some sort of explanation or some sort of justification.
If they truly can't work anymore, that's fair, but if they're being pushed out on their age alone, it is truly arbitrary.
What this means is that employers are able to express greater power over their employees, able to fire them more arbitrarily and, as such, workers have less security in their paychecks and have lower morale.
For this reason, we should raise the retirement age.