We should cancel the national flood insurance program.
The national flood insurance program is sort of a deviant portion of our law.
It really doesn't make sense given the total amount of protections that we provide to other victims of natural disaster.
Providing a unique system of flood insurance where communities can either opt in or opt out, largely means that people are harmed due to the actions of their neighbors.
It creates a nationalistic market, one in which the government steps in and pushes other private competitors out while not extending that protection to all people.
We think the best services are usually national, as I'll discuss later, and ultimately, the national flood insurance program does little more than harm people who would be hit by floods, while also treating people who are not in flood areas unfairly.
Three arguments for why we should cancel the national flood insurance program: first, on the market effects.
We think that when government steps in to particular industries, in this case the insurance industry, they push out their private competition.
There's very little incentive for large corporations to provide flood insurance because in areas where they might actually have to pay out or can actually charge a real amount of money if due to risk, the government will already be there.
They'll push them out and as a result, it's unfair or just simply unprofitable to have a number of adjusters, a number of claim evaluators, who evaluate whether or not someone deserves money due to flood insurance protection.
This is problematic because the national flood insurance program only extends to people where the community as a whole has voted on this sort of program.
The politicians must agree to it, the community must agree to it.
Otherwise, the government does not step in and provide it to anyone in the area.
As such, most places that are have propensity to flood do have this sort of protection, but in areas where the protection does not exist, we largely see no viable options for these people, as national programs don't have flood insurance programs, and local insurance companies do not have a mass amount of money and the upfront capital to pay out in the case of a massive flood.
Additionally, we think when government steps in and tries to alter particular industries, it's not very effective, because the government is run by bureaucrats with very little interest in the profits made by the company.
If the national flood insurance program makes a lot of money, that money doesn't go to politicians.
As such, it's likely to to suffer under mismanagement and uninspired labor compared to private industry which will be innovative, which will try its best to make a profit, and will largely protect people far more effectively.
My second argument is that it's undemocratic.
As I've already stated before, it's either that people in individual areas are unprotected or people in areas where they wouldn't want flood insurance are forced to buy it, are forced to pay for it through their tax dollars due to the votes of other individuals.
We think that stealing people's labor in this way is largely unfair, and unless there's going to be a universal application of a policy or an individual application of this policy, it's largely unfair to take away the right to speech and articulation of one's views from certain people while, at the same time, charging them money.
My third and final argument is that this is unfair.
People should only have to pay for goods where they get some sort of benefit from it.
Even people who don't have children should have to pay for school given that an educated population is effective for them to actually be able to empower themselves.
It's fair that people pay for things like fema, because having a whole section of the country unable to produce anything is bad for the economy and bad for governance.
However, insuring small communities from floods, insuring a few houses from floods, doesn't actually help most people.
The fact that my tax dollars go to this program and I have no capacity to actually benefit from this program is horribly unfair.
Additionally, it's unfair that we don't have this sort of protection for things like earthquakes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, and we only provide it for floods.
Ultimately, canceling the national flood insurance program would be far more fair, far more democratic, and improve the market considerably.