I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban telemarketing.
Since the invention of the telephone, telemarketing has been an effective and in many cases lucrative form of advertising.
It has allowed individuals with very little money to advertise their product to an incredibly wide base.
With the invention of robo calls, even very small institutions could advertise their services to a wide variety of individuals.
We believe that telemarketing is no worse than any other form of advertising and as such we stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban telemarketing.
I have three arguments in today's debate: first off on how this is the government overstep, second on how telemarketing actually gives the consumer the power, and third on how this will lead to a black market and will push telemarketing overseas which will be even more problematic.
But first I want to briefly address the crux of my opponents argument.
They talk at length about how telemarketing is intrusive, how it's difficult to stop or predict where telemarketing will be, but this is true of all advertising.
Every time that there's product placement in a TV show, individuals do not want you to actually recognize the product but rather feel a subconscious need to buy it.
Every time you see an advertisement in a magazine that you did not consent to see that particular advertisement on the next page.
In the same way, we would say the telemarketing, eventhough it is unsolicited, is just as bad as any other kind of advertisement.
This leads into my first argument about government overstep.
We think that government cannot take an arbitrary stance simply because it dislikes a certain form of advertising or certain form of action.
Even if there are minute harms to a particular kind of advertising, which is worse than other forms, it is unjust to outright ban it.
We believe that individuals are the best arbiter of their own good and corporations will use whatever tactics possible in order to guarantee that individuals are happy with them.
If someone picks up the phone and is angry at someone because they got the call, then they will not buy the product.
Firms know this, which is why telemarketing is not used unjustly.
But even if it were we believe governments could should not step in and destroy massive numbers of jobs and massive numbers of innovation simply because they dislike a particular form of action.
My second argument is how this actually gives power to individuals who receive telemarketing calls.
First, we think that individuals can outright refuse to take a particular phone call.
When they get the phone and they don't recognize the number, they can simply click do not pick up rather than taking the call.
This means that they can outright avoid it, this actually shows that this form of advertisement is better than other forms which as soon as it is pushed upon you will immediately be part of your life and you have no option at all to stop it.
It is also better than things like door-to-door sales or a billboard because you can just stop the call whenever.
If I see something offensive on a billboard, I need to continue to see until I've gotten past it.
If I get an offensive telemarketing call, I can immediately just pull the phone away from my ear and ppress stop to guarantee that I'm not harmed by a particular advertisement.
My third argument is how this will lead to more abuses.
My opponent seems to get scam calls and telemarketing mixed up.
We believe the only world where these two things are interchangeable is one where you ban telemarketing in the united states.
Whis is this the case?
We think that these companies will move overseas, will move to other states where there's lax regulation.
It is impossible to try people from another state so if they go to a state which does not ban telemarketing, it will still be used.
This is where you get the harmful tactics such as number spoofing and tricking individuals into buying your products.
This is also where you get more scam calls, given that a corporation can actually get your money but then refuse to send you your product.
You'll have no legal recourse if they're not based in the country where you were actually being called to.
As such, we should not ban telemarketing.