I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should abolish marriage.
At the point where marriage is an institution not belonging to the government and at the point where there are a variety of people who came together with the assumption that marriage would continue to provide benefits, both socially and economically, abolishing their marriage represents a betrayal to these people.
As a brief overview before I get into my substantive material, I want to discuss that most marriages don't end in divorce.
Even the statistics which say things like forty percent of of marriages end in divorce are fundamentally misleading.
Most people who get one divorce are the people who get multiple divorces.
This means that the true number of marriages that end in divorce, at least first marriages that end in divorce, is considerably lower.
It's just that certain people get married, say, eight times and don't find their soul mate until the eighth time.
Because we think that the vast majority of marriages work, we would say that a lot of the analysis that comes out of my opponent's speech is fundamentally predicated on an incorrect notion of how marriage works.
Three arguments for why we should not abolish marriage.
First, it is not the government's role.
If we were to abolish marriage, we must also abolish the numerous benefits which come alongside of it.
We would say that if we were to abolish the name " marriage ", but still provide huge tax benefits and social recognition to this role, all that we would be doing is just replacing marriage with a different name, and my opponent would not be fulfilling their obligation in this round.
As such, it would have to also support the removal of tax benefits and social benefits which come from marriage.
We think it is fundamentally unjust for any actor, particularly the government, to say to people that they no longer are deserving of, first, the social benefits.
We would say that telling people that having a stable home, getting respect from your neighbors, getting a variety of other benefits from your community as a result of marriage, taking that away from people would be truly unjust.
It would epresent a gross overstep of the government's role.
But even more problematically, a number of people have gotten married with the assumption that they would get tax benefits as a result of their union.
We would say that pulling this this rug out of people means that many people could end up in starvation.
Many people would be unable to continue supporting children, and as such the government would be fundamentally betraying the people in the state.
My second argument is the idea that marriage gives legal representation to a number of individuals.
It is incredibly difficult to split up assets once they're combined.
However, most couples end of combining assets because it is simply the easiest way to go about their lives.
However, when a certain partner ends up giving up their livelihood, ends up giving up their job prospects to raise a child or control a household, marriage is the only way they can legal representation and legal recourse.
We would say that because the patriarchal system surrounding marriage would still exist even if you abolished marriage, by having many women would continue to be the runner of the household and would continue raising children.
Without legal representation which could provide them equitable goods and a meaningful income were they to leave their partner, they would be in even more problematic situations.
If a wife having to raise a child could not get out of her marriage without essentially facing bankruptcy, they would be stuck in that union forever.
But marriage provides them some recourse, through the law, which would not be available without marriage.
My third and final argument is that redefining marriage is more liberating.
We would say that a huge amount of individuals have fought for marriage, understand marriage as a way in which they can get these economic benefits, and also there in a variety of benefits thereof.
By fighting to redefine marriage, we fight the patriarchal assumptions which underlie it, and as such are more likely to liberate women and liberate society, as a whole simply, by redefining what marriage is and equalizing the amount of social and pragmatic work that goes in by both partners.
So proud to oppose.