I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end affirmative action.
I have three arguments about reparations, the value of diversity, and the importance of equality.
But first two overviews.
Danny rests his entire case on the idea that need based affirmative action is more important.
Look the status quo shows that we can do both.
This means that the people who are at the very lowest tier of the socio economic ladder are still getting their entire college paid for.
As you get through to the lower middle class individuals are still able to get out of college with minimal to no debt.
We think this is an optimal system it mitigates a massive amount of the harms which danny discusses.
Secondly on the idea of political backlash and controversy.
This may have been a meaningful argument seven to ten years ago but recently the supreme court has decided that affirmative action is legitimate.
Western liberal democracies have employed affirmative action in a variety of spheres with little backlash.
We think both empirically this is false but additionally a the trend is going towards a general acceptance of affirmative action and as such there's little harms to to continuing affirmative action.
My first argument is the idea of reparations.
Every single individual who is from an oppressed race suffers from historical oppression.
If you look to the united states red lining actively put african americans in communities where there was a lack of food a lack of jobs and a lack of infrastructure.
We believe that there's a historical obligation to repay the harms which were incurred upon these people.
Furthermore we would say that even in the modern day these people face profound racism when someone has worked to become a wealthy person of color and is able to provide money for their child they are still owed a particular debt from society and from the government such that they're able to make right the wrongs that came about them.
If the optimal system is a meritocracy where we reward individuals who are the most deserving we would say that individuals who were able to get to college despite profound socio economic barriers and profound structural barriers that put them into a position where they cannot actually advance in society are owed a particular debt.
This is the most clear moral claim.
All other moral claims are fairly abstract but the idea that we must make whole harms which we do upon others is fairly clear logically sound and is imperative if we are to equalize society in general.
This brings me to my second argument the value of diversity.
Look if you have a school that's a hundred percent white even if you have people of all socio economic backgrounds you do not get the full range of discourse as possible.
People from a variety of communities have different lived experiences are able to look at things from different views.
The good is idiosyncratic which means it's based on how we were raised in society which we see around us and that is different for a variety of people.
For people who've experienced racism they literally see things differently due to the factors the historical factors and the factors that they have faced throughout their lives.
If you want the best discourse on college campuses in that and jobs as well you must have affirmative action in order to allow the greatest diversity possible and not simply have a reflection of a primarily white society if you were to the united states as an example.
My third and final argument is the idea of equality.
Look if you take the amount of scholarships available to people of color versus white students you'll find that they're actually fairly even.
The reason why this is the case is there are a variety of scholarships which go to rural communities which would a particular schools which are almost exclusively inhabited by white people.
We would say that it is unjust then if we have a massive imbalance in the scholarships available to a terror to a particular race.
If you use the very rhetoric my opponent says it is clear that we ought not be giving preferential treatment to the oppressors in the society or at the very least the majority class.
Taking all these arguments together it is clear that we should not end affirmative action thank you.