I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase international volunteering.
Although international volunteers have the best interests of the world at heart, they generally do little good and actually cause harm in the states that they go to.
We would say that they are failing in their obligation to the state that they were born in while also contributing to problematic states of affairs in the state that they visit.
Three arguments.
First off on the obligation of individuals.
Volunteers have an obligation to the people around them first.
It is unclear why I have an obligation to a person in a developing state compared to the people who helped raise me and the communities which contributed to my well being.
Even homeless individuals in my community contributed to the way I am today, honestly just seeing them, but also contributed insofar as they have worked a decent portion of their lives in almost every situation and have done their part to change the community based on their own will.
We would say that individuals have an obligation, a reciprocal obligation to the people around them, to the people who helped to raise them in order to support them.
We believe that the failing of this obligation represents a true moral failing and as such we ought not increase international volunteering unless the domestic state of affairs are essentially peaceful and prosperous.
It is very clear in any western liberal democracy that a huge amount of effort is still needed to achieve an effective state.
A state which truly supports all of its inhabitants and as such we ought not increase international volunteering until domestic affairs are better.
My second argument is the idea of corruption.
Many international volunteering organizations lead to an increas in corruption and entrench problematic power structures.
This can happen two ways.
First governments can use these international organizations as essentially a propaganda wing.
They can require them to pay money to get into the states which goes into the coffer of corrupt politicians, it contributes to police and military states which oppress the local people, but further they can use the fact that international organizations are helping their citizens to bolster their own claims.
They can say that the decrease in disease was a result of their action, the increase in the amount of food supply is a result of their power, and as such we entrench problematic power structures.
This is terrible for the long term as these people generally artificially manufacture a huge portion of the harms in the state that these volunteers are visiting.
For long term efficacy, these states must be destabilized, the government must be removed, and we must wait until a a prosperous government exist before international volunteering can be justified.
Corruption can also occur with individual groups.
In many states terrorist organizations have taken to raiding international volunteering organizations to fund their own cause.
This increases violence in the state while also increasing poverty as these individuals typically target infrastructure and use these good goods to the detriment of the whole of society.
My third argument is the idea of market destruction.
When you send a bunch of engineers to a developing state and say our services are free there can be no paid engineers in the state.
If you go to to say state in the global south as james puts it and essentially drive out all human capital in a particular market, you make them dependent on the international volunteering organization.
This is incredibly problematic.
It prevents the long term development of the state as human capital is essential to increase the economic benefits of this society.
But secondly you make it so there is very little efforts to invest in the state.
All international volunteering organizations are temporal.
They don't exist in the states forever and as such businesses know that they invest in the state it's possible that the entire infrastructure of the state could go to hell simply because an international voluntary organization leaves.
For a good economy in a good state to develop there must be strong human capital within the state that is essentially self preserving and will not simply go away at a moment's notice.
And as such, I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase global volunteering.