We should subsidize student loans.
Student loans are a necessary evil.
Even though the object itself is one of incredible disdain, if it didn't exist individuals in poverty could not access college.
However, the average amount that someone pays for a loan is largely not representative of that loan's effect on society.
That is to say, whenever someone takes out a loan and cannot pay it, they aren't getting much benefit from it and the corporation isn't getting any more benefit than they would from a loan that is paid back.
To this end we would propose and support the following model: that governments should use incredible amounts of money to subsidize loans to the tune of say sixty to eighty percent.
They could further use that that money to transfer all loans to subsidize loans that is to say loans that you only need to pay after you graduate college.
It will be sort of a pay it forward program where all the loans that someone pays off will then be used to help subsidize other people's loans.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea, first on when we subsidize.
We think that we subsidize if the price doesn't match the societal good.
We think when someone buys an ice cream cone, the person who sells it loses the benefits of that ice cream cone but gaining the money.
The person who buys the ice cream cone gains the benefit of the ice cream but lose their money.
This is as such essentially an equal trade between the two parties.
However if I consume fossil fuels, I pay for the fossil fuel, the company loses the fossil fuel but then the whole of society is hurt by the burned energy by the release of greenhouse gases and the general degradation of our environment.
We think that's student loans are a good, that's to say that we should subsidize them to increase the total amount of consumption beyond what individuals get for individual benefit.
Why is this the case?
First, we think that people can't think in terms of the long term.
As such they are unlikely to understand the overall benefits of an education and student loans and are less likely to consume as a result.
Second, because individuals simply have no concrete value that they can put upon education, people are bad at thinking in the abstract and as such they are unlikely to understand the total ramifications of their education.
Why is this so important?
We think that we will prove that education is a general good later and should be subsidized on that alone but it is inherently undervalued because of these other things.
Furthermore we think that corporations are happiest when student loans are paid off as fast as possible.
Why is this the case?
If I have to pay five percent interest on my loan every single year the company makes the same amount of money if I pay it off in two years and then they can loan that out to someone else who continues paying five percent per year as they would if I just paid the five percent every single year.
As such we think the older a loan is the less profitable it is to the individual but it gets no more additional profit for the corporation and as such they should be paid off as soon as possible.
My second argument is about the societal good.
We think that education is a societal good.
It allows people to challenge entrenched pedagogy and orthodoxy which allows for the creation of new ideas, new spaces, and new innovation.
Furthermore we think that more education means higher levels of skilled work, more efficient work, and generally just a happy populace in general.
Third and finally we think this will empower the poor.
We think that the poor are generally barred from an effective education in the status quo.
They cannot access it as it is simply too expensive expensive.
If we massively subsidized student loans, we are far more likely to see an increase in the total amount of people in poverty going to college.
This is incredibly important for a few reasons.
First off these people are largely not to blame for their own poverty.
If someone is taking the effort to go to college and still use a decent sum a sum of their money to get an education, they are likely not the cause of their own poverty and as such we should reward them for working harder and reducing their total suffering.
Additionally we think that we'll just generally get higher skilled workers which improves our total economy.
For this reason, we should subsidize student loans.