We should further exploit alternative energy.
Fossil fuels represent a massive drain on public resources, public health, and ultimately pose an existential threat to humanity.
Now there's no direct link between these fossil fuels and total extinction, but their contribution to greenhouse gas emissions has massively increased global warming, which honestly represents the greatest threat to mankind in the modern day.
By further exploiting alternative energy we are given an option to fight global warming while also expanding the sovereignty of states which do not produce their own energy.
Although some states in northern europe are currently at capacity for their usage of alternative energy, the vast majority of states are far off their mark and get less than one percent of their energy from alternative energy.
Attempts to exploit alternative energy have continually been fraught with problems, as large lobbying industries work with the oil industry to fight against alternative energy.
Because we think this is so problematic, we support the following model: that all states around the world should massively subsidize alternative energy and work to expand the industry.
Furthermore, they should adopt large public works projects to produce alternative energy by creating solar power farms, massive number of wind turbines or huge hydroelectric dams.
We have two arguments in today's debate for why we ought exploit alternative energy: my first argument is about global warming.
Global warming is an existential threat to humanity.
The continued melting of the glaciers is raising sea levels, putting coastal communities at risk, increased temperature threatens to destroy crops and has caused unfamiliar diseases to travel across borders and across lands posing massive causing massive amounts of damage and death.
By further exploring alternative energy we obtain a great option for mitigating global warming.
Although much of global warming is caused by corporations, if we were to transfer all cars into things like electric cars we would massively decrease global warming, which can possibly be done by decreasing the cost of alternative energy and energy in general.
Additionally, even though industry will continue to produce greenhouse gases, if the energy used to do most manufacturing were to come from alternative energy it would also massively decrease global warming.
This is important as it will essentially save the human race in the long run.
As time goes on discourse is starting to shift between when we will stop global warming to how long we'll survive if it continues.
Now is the only time we can act to truly exploit alternative energy while saving our own lives.
But even if the existential threat of humanity is not a cause of concern for someone, which it it should always be, we would say that coastal communities are already threatened.
Many cities and states have gone under water due to rising sea levels and the migration of animals away from fishing villages has caused many areas to fundamentally collapse.
Now my second argument is about energy security.
Many states are essentially under the thumb of opec - the organization of petroleum exporting countries - and other large geopolitical actors who harvest and sell oil.
Using alternative energy puts the power in the hands of the state, increasing the sovereignty of the state and hand in the power back to the people.
We would say it's unjust for any state to be at the beck and call of another, simply because another state controls our energy, and as such governments have an obligation to increase energy security by further exploiting alternative energy.
As such, we should further exploit alternative energy.