We should ban corporal punishment in the home.
It is unacceptable to hurt a child.
Even if there are utilitarian benefits, we think that hitting a child is unacceptable because they don't understand the full extent of their action.
Many times if they are doing something bad, if they're doing something problematic, it is the failure of the adult to educate them properly.
As such, hitting them does little more than breed resentment and anger.
This leads me to my major idea in this speech that it's simply not utilitarian either.
We don't think that hitting children actually improves their quality of life or makes them understand that they're doing any better.
As such, corporal punishment is incredibly useless and unethical.
To that end it should be outright banned.
With that in mind we would propose the following model: that anytime a child is hit the parent gets a strike, that after three strikes they have an immediate fine and potential jail time.
This includes things like spanking.
This includes things where the purpose of the action is to hurt the child.
Obviously if you grab a child's wrist and try to get them to move because they're doing something unsafe or not listening and they feel pain, that's not corporal punishment.
We think that corporal punishment is anything which has the express purpose of hurting the child.
Three arguments why this is a good idea and why banning corporal punishment is the only way that the united states can move forward.
First, it's fundamentally unethical.
As I already stated, children do not have the full capacity to understand the ramifications of their actions.
In many cases their world is incredibly small.
They haven't engaged with many people.
They may think that violence is a reasonable response because their parents are doing it.
They might think that breaking something is fun because they don't understand the idea of possessions or property or why breaking something permanently destroying it is bad.
As such, we think that hitting them is ultimately putting more moral weight than on them than could ever be justified.
Physical punishment in that regard ultimately would only be acceptable if the individual understands what they're doing and if there were no other alternatives.
It's clear for parents that neither of these things are true.
Children don't know what they're doing and there are a myriad of other options that parents could take to guarantee that children are disciplined properly and less likely to do it in the future.
My second argument is that corporal punishment teaches violence.
When your parent hits you once anyone hits you in your home you don't learn to respect them.
You don't learn to respect a particular rule.
What you learn is that if you do something, you'll be hit.
You're far more likely to hide it.
You're far more likely to use violence against your own children or other people because you think it's the appropriate way to respond to things that you don't like.
As such, individuals are far more likely to be violent later in life, far more likely to be delinquent or otherwise have behavioral issues that cannot be solved by talking and can only be solved by violence or power or expressions of power and violence in the form of threats.
My third and final argument is about behavioral problems.
We think that individuals are far more likely to suffer from anxiety, suffer from a generalized fear of their parents if they're hit.
For children to grow up appropriately they have to be nurtured, they have to be loved, they have to understand their parents are behind them and are not their aggressors, are not individuals who are being violent towards them.
We think that if they don't have the support network or even just optically don't have the support network because they've been beaten throughout their lives, they're far more likely to have behavioral problems and have no way to grow up and be an effective member of society and as such, they'll have a considerably worse quality of life.
For this reason, we should ban corporal punishment in the home.