We should end censorship.
Censorship is one of the great evils in our modern day and age.
Unlike other forms of evil, unlike other forms of violence, we think that censorship is incredibly subtle, incredibly pernicious, and incredibly dangerous, given that it is impossible to understand the full implications of censorship because you are simply not observing the speech which is being banned.
In the same way that continuously stealing from individuals without their knowledge, that is to say, without the whole of society understanding, would largely make it impossible to check this sort of theft, we think that censorship is impossible to check because you cannot understand all the different ways which has impacted individuals.
To this end, we think that we should always defer toward safety, always defer towards allowing individuals to speak their mind to truly understand how our society is constructed.
As such, we would propose the following model: that governments around the world should completely abandon censorship.
The only cases where individuals should be tried for their speech is if there is conspiracy to commit a particular crime.
Obviously, if I'm telling someone exactly how I want them to murder someone else, I should still be charged, but we think that the act of speech itself, with no immediate and direct causal link to violence, is enough to avoid censorship in the first place.
Three arguments for why: first, there is no objective good.
There may be a god above, there may be a soul inside of us.
However, it is impossible to gauge what these mystical powers are telling us is right or wrong.
It is impossible to or, at the very least, unjust to subject other individuals based on our beliefs on mystical beings or mystical entities.
As such, the only way in which we can construct a meaningful and just form of good, a just form of governance, is if we understand how every individual thinks, makes a collective agreement to pass particular laws or enforce particular laws.
This is the very basis of government.
We think that censorship directly undermines individuals' abilities to construct a holistic understanding of the good and, largely, means that individuals cannot argue their understanding of the good to governments or other individuals.
This leads me to my second argument about the marketplace of ideas.
First off, in politics.
We think that the only way people can engage freely and fairly with politics is if they are not censored.
Additionally, in terms of just the general good and individuals feeling self-actualized, if individuals are not able to speak their mind with other people, are not able to express how they feel and learn from other people about how they feel, they'll feel fundamentally alienated and live a worse quality of life.
My third argument is about abuse of power.
Putting censorship in the hands of human beings, in the hands of fallible individuals, will always lead to abuses in power.
Is likely that censorship will fall on critique of current regimes and will fall on the poorest and most disenfranchised in our community, those who we would say have implicitly and explicitly offensive speech simply due to their characteristics.
This is what we see throughout history towards people of color in the united states, where their speech and fighting for civil rights has been deemed as terrorism, has been deemed as rabble-rousers who are functionally want to destroy our way of life.
We think that handing this power to governments will always lead to an abuse of power, where individuals cannot articulate their their viewpoints or fight for empowerment going into the future, because of this kind of abuse.
For this reason, we should end censorship.