We should ban homeopathy.
Homeopathy is pseudoscience taken to an incredible level.
It has allowed the market to take over for BS spiritual healing and generally push this sort of ideas on innocent and naive individuals, who then harm themselves due to homeopathy.
Because we think that there's an incredible amount of misinformation out there and because the ultimate harm of homeopathic medicine cannot be determined, we would say the government has an affirmative obligation to outright ban it.
The model that we would propose to ensure that there is not abuse of this kind of law is that any sort of homeopathic medicine be required to have a massive label saying it is ineffective and generally doesn't work.
We think that individuals can still take ginger supplements, can still take vitamins, but we would require that their labeling first say that this is not actively medicine, secondly say that it does not ever count as a substitute for conventional medicine, and third, not be allowed to use flowery language or claims.
This is to say if I'm selling ginger, I cannot say that it will cure cancer, or even say that it will decrease the chance of a stuffy nosed.
It can only say that is a ginger supplement, and that is it.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, why the government should ban it.
We think that there's an information asymmetry which comes from homeopathy, which generally comes from it's inaccurate labeling and the information surrounding it being generally untrue.
Because we think that there's a cult following around it and be because there's a market incentive to promote this cult, individuals largely do not know the extent to harm of homeopathic medicine.
This will allow the government to ban it as there is largely a train that has gone from the station, which is pushing people towards death and generally a worse quality of life.
The second standard is that there are third-party harms from homeopathic medicine.
If there are harms to people who do not consent to the harms, government must step in to protect these people because they cannot protect themselves.
The individuals who are harmed most by homeopathic medicine are children.
They did not get to pick what goes into their body, largely because we provide that right to the parents.
And yet, conventional medicine, things like antibiotics, are ignored for homeopathic medicine with startling frequency.
Because of this, the government must step in and ban it.
The third standard is if there's if the government is the only actor who can check abusive market practices.
Because we think that no individual consumer or no individual organization can check homeopathic medicine and ensure it is not sold, the government must step in and ban it, which brings me to my second argument about homeopathic medicine supplanting conventional medicine.
A massive problem in our present day is that homeopathic medicine is used instead of conventional medicine.
It is okay when it is used along side of it but largely, because it replaces it, it can cause massive harms.
If homeopathic medicine were effective, it would be called conventional medicine.
Even though like ancient peoples had roots, had powders, which were effective, all of those have been coopted into conventional medicine.
Everything that is left is not effective.
As such, spiritual gurus and corporations who push homeopathic medicine can cause incredible harm to people, increasing the total cost of our healthcare system and increasing the total loss of life.
This brings me to my third harmful argument about how it can be actively harmful.
First, it is unclear the interactions regarding homeopathic medicine versus regular medicine.
This can cause fatal interactions which can cause death.
Secondly, there can be bad chemicals within homeopathic medicine.
Corporations still want to save money and as such, they are liable to use incredibly problematic ingredients within their medicine.
Third and finally, it is impossible to know the total side effects of these kinds of medicines cause we do not know the effect and because we don't regulate them like medication.
As such, we should ban homeopathy.