We should not subsidize agriculture.
Markets are the most effective when they can equilibrate supply and demand.
The agricultural market is a truly free market, there are very few markets which exist without burdens of access, burdens of lean in the market, which have a profound number of suppliers supplying the exact same good.
However, agriculture is able to meet this profoundly niche set of criteria.
We would say that government stepping in and creating market distortion is does little more than harm huge portions of the population.
Markets are an effective tool for creating social good, the issue is that many are not free.
Because the agricultural market is free and does not deserve government influence we would support the following motion: that governments around the world stop subsidizing any form of agriculture.
Presumably this will be phased out in a five year timeline where individuals will have sometime to sell their assets if they want to stop farming.
However, this debate ought not be about the funding mechanisms about stopping subsidizing agriculture and should be about the effects of subsidizing agriculture in the long term.
My first argument is that subsidizing agriculture has a profoundly problematic effect on trade.
This is in two ways, first, when free trade agreements are signed upon foreign farmers largely take a huge hit.
When NAFTA was signed united states agricultural subsidies pushed many a farmers in north and south america out of their family's profession, it forced them to sell off their assets because they simply could not compete with US farmers.
We think this is generally bad as the best system possible is one in which all individuals are competing in order to meet the needs of the consumer.
What agricultural subsidies did in this case is it pushed poor individuals out of the role which they decided for their lives on the taxpayers' dime.
Essentially we subsidized pushing poor people out of their jobs.
The second possible effect on trade is that it can sometimes get in the way of free trade agreements.
We would say that when governments are afraid that their people could lose thousands of jobs unwilling to sign trade agreements with states which do subsidize agricultural agriculture heavily.
We see this in a variety of situations in which individuals are apprehensive to vote for free trade with the united states as it could harm their a huge portion of their population.
Politicians are always accountable to the people and when huge of the population believe they could lose their job, free trade agreements do not occur.
This decreases the efficiency of the entire world market and harms other industries which would benefit from free trade.
Now my second argument is that this has problematic affects on the market.
This is for a few reasons, first we think that it's generally just unjust to use tax dollars in order to distort a market in which there are these unique and beneficial criteria which allows individuals to compete or compare goods easily.
Doing this simply decreases the efficiency of the market and on face ought not be accepted.
The market can equilibrium supply and demand in the long term and as such we think that more people get cheaper food over all particularly when you account for the decrease taxes as you don't need to subside agriculture anymore, and as such we think it's beneficial to stop subsidizing agriculture.
Additionally we think a huge portion of these subsidies go to big companies, it's very difficult to navigate the legal loopholes and the incentives of which government puts in place and big companies are basically the only actors who can effectively do this.
We would say that because large companies are the only people who use agricultural subsidies in a meaningful way it is a terrible idea that we are funding them, they already make millions upon millions of dollars per year and government stepping in to increase their bottom line does little more than harm the average person.
As such we should not subsidize agriculture.