We should support water privatization.
Water privatization is a major hot-button issue in our modern day.
Many individuals around the united states are afraid of what water privatization might do for their own access to water.
We live in one of the wealthiest states on earth.
The vast majority of people in our planet understand that access to water is not very hard to get and will not be hard to get even if we privatize water due to the fact that both government regulation exists and we have a huge amount of water and because we have a massive amount of money that can be used to subsidize access to water.
With that mind, I would propose the following model: that the government look to auction off more bodies of water to sell it to private organizations so they can manage it and distribute it.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, we think that will maximize access.
In the united states in places like flint michigan and parts of detroit in parts of many states around the world we see lead in pipes.
We see access to water decreased because the government is unwilling or unable to act.
A few reasons why we think that in these areas private corporations will be far more effective.
First, private corporations do not have sovereign immunity.
It's impossible to sue the government of flint michigan for failing to provide water and especially if you want any return because one, they don't really have any money to fix anything but two, they have government immunity which means that there's no actual way to get them to change.
They are immune from the courts.
They are the very power which would lay down the judgment and as such, they cannot command themselves in the way that they do not want to act.
As such, we think that private corporations can be sued.
They can be forced to take action and fix many water supplies around the the united states secondly, resources.
We think that many state governments have their hand in too many pots trying to manage waste services, trying to manage roads and construction is incredibly difficult.
If the united states had the government running every single construction site we'd have no money for anything else, we'd be overrun with other issues.
In the same way, when we try to run every single water plant in the united states, we think that we simply don't have the resources to do that and everything else.
With private corporations they'll have far more resources at their disposal to fix lead pipes, to fix damaged areas, and as such, will be able to fix them far more easily.
Third and finally, private corporations have the biggest incentive to change it.
We think that the capacity to sell water to certain groups of people makes private companies pretty happy.
We don't think the government actually really cares whether or not certain people have access to water besides an abstract ethical obligation but honestly, politicians don't really have strong codes of ethics in many cases.
Private corporations also don't have strong codes of ethics but they have an incentive to always be pumping water to people so they can sell it to them as such, we think the total access to water will increase substantially as a result of water privatization.
My second argument is about cleanliness.
We think that governments don't do a good job keeping reservoirs clean, keeping rivers clean, and as a result many people get sick.
Many times we don't see the proper chemical such as fluoride put in waters for certain cities.
Private corporations will have a greater incentive to keep this cleanliness as if they don't we can see that the government will give their contract to someone else who will keep it clean.
Third and finally, innovation.
We think that there's much innovation that can be done regarding water.
New chemicals can be put in to guarantee it's clean for longer.
We can change the way in which we have our pipes, change our methods of distribution to be considerably more efficient.
We think that massive amounts of water are leaked out in the status quo.
This waste water can be put to good use by these corporations as they have far more incentive to innovate than the government.
For this reason, we should support water privatization.