I stand in firm opposition to the motion the vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
The vow of celibacy while fundamentally against human nature, also represents a core tenet of many systems of belief.
By abandoning the vow of celibacy, religious organizations turn away huge numbers of followers and otherwise harm the internal consistency of their own teachings.
As such, the vow of celibacy should be continued.
I have two arguments in today's debate to support this but first an overview.
My opponent argues that the church has no role in forcing individuals into taking particular actions.
I agree completely.
The issue there is that individuals consented into this action.
They priests decided that they would like to join the priesthood, that they would like to join the cloth and as such, they consented into the idea that they will take this vow of celibacy.
It would be fundamentally unjust if the church banned or required individuals to go to church every sunday.
It would be fundamentally unjust if they require them to pay a tithe however, all of these things are actions which the individual consented to and as such, it is okay.
This means that all of my opponents arguments regarding how this is a fundamentally abusive action on behalf of the church simply do not stand.
I'd further like to address the idea that this could otherwise cause impropriety impropriety on behalf of the priesthood.
We would say that many priests although they'd fall to invalid or unjust ideas, are unlikely to be effected in this way by the vow of celibacy.
It is unlikely that a priest would otherwise harm another individual rather than simply breaking their vow of celibacy -ly and continuing their work.
As such, we don't think the vow of celibacy actually causes any harmful effects on society either.
With that my two arguments.
First off is on the influence of the church.
Quite simply, individuals require the church to ascribe to certain principles that it must continue to do.
Age old traditions when they're abandon, cause massive exoduses away from the religion which initially accepted those practices.
Quite simply, taking away the vow of celibacy will cause many individuals to leave the church for other religious organizations or create their own church.
This has three disastrous effects.
First, if we are talking on behalf of the church, than losing huge numbers of your followers is effectively losing your power.
We would say that this is generally bad in the eyes of the church but that's just the eyes of society as well.
As a church generally generally causes a society to be more charitable as it pushes for charitable organizations and to accept a variety of teachings about helping your fellow man, helping your fellow neighbor.
Anyway, it's incredibly effective.
The second harmful effect that this can cause a mass exodus to individuals' own religions which are likely to be far more extremist if they this vow of celibacy is the reason that they left.
This is problematic as it it can cause far more violence in society.
Finally, if you are discussing this in the eyes of the church, you don't want to lose influence as these are all people who are now following a false god and could easily go to hell.
This is infinite suffering and should not be accepted by any religious organization.
My second argument is about the consistency of teachings.
When the church teaches that you ought be chased, that you ought except that sex is something sacred and can only be done in cases of marriage and at the same time refuse priests the right to have sex even though they can't get married, you fundamentally distort the teachings of the church.
The church can never be effective if it does not have consistency but furthermore, it is violating its own moral principles if it does not maintain its consistency among across different sermons and teachings.
We would say this violates the very purpose of the church as a moral leader as people will continue to question it and challenge it based on these inconsistencies that were forced upon it externally or forced upon it due to progressive values to which it does not ascribe.
As such, we should not remove the vow of celibacy.