We should ban anonymous posts.
Anonymity is in incredibly dangerous tool.
In the hands of the average person, it allows for a proliferation of hate, allows for more violence and direct attacks towards individuals, and decreases the total amount of accountability that anyone has on the internet.
This is incredibly problematic.
For many individuals, it is impossible to truly separate one's identity from one's online presence.
However, for the most powerful people in most societies, that is to say white men, their anonymous identity allows them to be free of any criticism.
Because we think that anonymous posts are largely problematic, we would propose the following model: that all individuals be required to put their name on their account, that any accounts found with an inaccurate name be IP banned.
This means that their IP address is no longer able to access the site they were previously using which means no matter what they do, unless they change their IP address or set it up to be dynamically set, they cannot access the service they were previously using.
My first argument is about respect.
As I said before, the most powerful are unlikely to be harassed due their due to their identity.
However, people of color and women are far more likely to be harassed on the internet.
Unfortunately, these are also the individuals far more likely to express their own identity to find a common community with which to empathize and enjoy themselves with.
This means that if I'm a woman and I want to talk with other women about my lived experiences, I'm going to express that who I am.
I'm going to get rid of my anonymity.
However, individuals who want to harass me, individuals who don't think I have a place on the internet, are far more likely to target me and push me out.
We think that the internet is an incredibly important tool for speech.
It is largely a prerequisite for speech in the twenty first century as so much communication and organization is now digital.
By pushing particular subsets of our society out of these sort of forums and spaces, we are far more likely to see a decrease in political engagement by these individuals.
They are less likely to feel comfortable and be able to access their speech rights which we think fundamentally destroys their ability to self-actualize.
My second argument is about crime.
Anonymity makes crime considerably more easy.
If I'm accessing a site through a VPN and using an anonymous account, it's incredibly unlikely that law enforcement agencies can track down who I am.
This is problematic because if I threaten a school, if I threaten anyone, if I plan crimes, law enforcement agencies cannot effectively stop me unless they know who I am.
By removing anonymity, we are far more likely to see a decrease in crime.
This is important for a few reasons.
First, we'll see a decrease in scams.
This is the biggest place where you see this sort of thing occurring, because if someone scams me out of a thousand dollars, they can't simply get away with it by removing themselves from the account.
We will also see a decrease in things like hate crimes and planned, premeditated violence which also occurs on the internet in fringe communities, which we want to disincentivize.
My third and final argument is about statistics.
We think that the twenty first century is largely governed by statistics.
Massive amounts of data allow us to aggregate opinions, aggregate strategies, and largely cater to a population which is constantly growing and shifting.
By being able to pinpoint particular views, particular actions, and link them to a certain identity, we will be able to more effectively cater policy, be far more effective in having a positive discourse, and ultimately improve the whole of society.
For this reason, we should ban anonymous posts.