I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should subsidize investigative journalism.
Investigative journalism is flourishing right now.
We see that journalists across the board are incredibly effective at finding the sort of crimes, at finding the worst parts of society and reporting them.
In many ways, they're making a massive amount of money that previously was unheard of.
The real failure of journalism is print media.
We see magazines and newspapers simply are not being bought anymore.
If you look at the new york times site, if you look at CNN, fox news, BBC, PBS, what you see is that online and electronic consumption of media is expanding at a massive rate.
As such, we think investigative journalism is doing incredibly well, but subsidizing it would do little more than distort incentives and, ultimately, weaken the market.
With that in mind, I have two arguments with extraneous rebuttal interwoven.
My first argument is about bias.
We think that when you pay someone a huge amount of money to take a certain action, they typically take that action in a way that would cater to your goals.
That is to say, if I pay you twenty dollars to do something, or if I say, " please write a story about me, and I'll give you twenty dollars, " you're gonna write a positive story.
You want that money to keep going.
This is very true for investigative journalism.
We think if the united states federal government gives investigative journalists millions upon millions of dollars, they're gonna write positive stories.
This is important because when my opponent says that people in power need to be held accountable, that investigative journalism sheds a light on the most important people or the most powerful people in our society, this is fundamentally undermined when those same people are giving journalists huge amounts of money.
The result, then, is that you can't actually have this kind of accountability.
We think accountability is essential at preventing crimes, at preventing dangerous actions against individuals.
When you see corporations with no accountability, they pollute rivers.
They destroy ecosystems.
They oppress workers.
When you see the wealthy with no accountability, they largely do the same thing while, at the same time, abusing those around them and being a narcissistic and, ultimately, horrific individual.
As such, this lack of accountability is incredibly dangerous, but even if we don't see an actual decrease in accountability, we think that the optics of accountability is important as well.
What we mean by this is if I pay you twenty dollars to write a story about me and you write a good story, I'm going to think you're biased even if you're not.
Even if we think the new york times, even if we think BBC, even if we think that other news sources will not actually change their tone, once people know that the majority of the money that goes to fund their journalism comes from the government, they'll they're going to think that those sources are bias.
As such, even if you have this sort of accountability, even if you track people down, people will be unwilling to listen or unwilling to care, simply because they think that you're a puppet to certain interests and cannot be trusted.
This fundamentally undermines accountability in the same way as the actual bias does.
My second argument, though, is that this distorts market incentives.
As I said in my overview, we think what's really important is that print media simply dies out, and we transfer to electronic media.
We also think that it's important that investigative journalism targets what people care about.
Right now we see a huge amount of investigative journalism regarding the president of the united states.
This will ultimately go down in history and allow us to far better understand our period of time, while also keeping people accountable right now.
But if you give people money for writing, essentially, whatever they want, the result is one in which people write more about their interests and less about what the people actually care about.
If I'm really interested in model trains, I might write an investigative journalism report about the model train community while fundamentally neglecting what most people are interested in and the political system as a whole.
As such, we think the total amount of information goes down.
So proud to oppose.