We should fight urbanization.
As individuals move from rural environments and suburban environments into the big city, they necessarily displace those individuals who invested the most time, money, and energy into making their city prosperous and safe.
Unfortunately, there are simply not enough room for the entirety of any states population to live in the major currently existing cities.
We would say that those individuals who've lived in cities the longest and who have fought to make their area prosperous, ought have the primary rights to live in that area without threatening their well being.
With that in mind, we support the following model.
That in all states were urbanization is occurring the government ought adopt policies which generally stigmatize and incentivize individuals to stay in rural environments and increase the tax amount of individuals who move from rural environments into urban environments unless they have a job currently existing or have currently lived in a rural environment with high levels of unemployment where they can only escape to large cities.
With that in mind, we have two arguments.
First, large cities have limited capacity.
Infrastructure simply cannot take the entirety of any state.
First, we would say that even if urbanization occurs slowly, the fact that infrastructure simply does not have the ability to simply adopt all these individuals, there's simply not enough roads, not enough hospitals, not enough schools to truly help these individuals.
It's impossible to truly put everyone in urban environments.
However, we would also say that urbanization typically occurs rather quickly.
As cities in particular states or in particular areas boom in terms of prosperity, individuals quickly shift from rural environments into the city.
This is problematic because it puts increased stress on infrastructure.
Now what infrastructure are we actually discussing under this point?
Three things, first, transportation infrastructure.
We would say that in most states transportation infrastructure is crumbling.
It cannot take the massive influx of people and continue to maintain itself.
What this means is there is increased danger of roads collapsing, bridges collapsing, and otherwise taking individuals lives.
And at the point where we cannot even repair roads and bridges, it is impossible to expand them to allow more cars on the road.
This means that efficiency in cities will decrease massively as organization increases as individuals cannot get to where they want to be in any reasonable amount of time.
We already see this in cities like new york and LA where it takes an hour simply to go across the city just a few miles.
Next is healthcare infrastructure.
Hospitals and clinics simply cannot take the increased number of people.
Coupled with the rise in crime and other conflicts which occur as people move into the city, increased violence, increased health problems means that these hospitals will suffer and this suffering will be transferred onto those people who need care the most.
Nurses, doctors will not be able to get to every single individual which will particularly harm the poor who cannot afford to go to other areas which would otherwise charge more money due to increased demand.
Finally, we would say that schools who are unlikely to be able to take all the children who would go there and increased class sizes have routinely been proven to mean worse education for children.
My second argument is about gentrification.
Very simply, as individuals move into urban environments, demand increases massively.
This increases the cost of housing pushing lower income individuals into poor areas.
Gentrification is essentially punishment on poor individuals and people of color for making their neighborhood safer and better.
These their houses, their apartments, are taken by individuals with more money and they're pushed into a new ghetto, into a new place with increased violence.
This is fundamentally unjust and must be opposed by every state and moral authority.
As such, we should fight urbanization.