We should ban gerrymandering.
Gerrymandering is a strategy in which politicians draw districts so that they can win elections.
It is fundamentally undemocratic and relies on politicians self-regulating.
No individual is capable of truly self-regulating.
No industry can control itself to the best of its ability.
It will always try to improve its own own lot in life, but we think politicians are particularly problematic as a group.
They are far more likely to be scoundrels, to lie to the public, to use their charisma to get ill-gotten gains.
Giving them the ability to control their districts, to effectively take advantage of a zero-sum game, ultimately diminishes the capacity for the american public to articulate their views and ensure that government reflects their ideology.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that all districts should be drawn by computers.
They will be split evenly based on their populations and although there can be additional elections to define how many spots are available on the senate, on the particular committees that will be voted on, the computer will always draw the districts and guarantee that there is a fairly even distribution among all groups.
My first argument for why this is a good idea is that gerrymandering is anti-democratic.
The only way in which we can have a democratic government is if all people come together and articulate their views, guarantee that they elect a representative who they feel reflects their ideologies and who who they know will fight for them on a legislative level.
Gerrymandering prevents this.
It is an attempt to make it so the minority has power over who actually controls the congressional seats.
With gerrymandering, particular groups and particular political groups are split between a variety of regions such that they are unable to actually articulate themselves effectively.
For instance, if a particular state was eighty percent republican and twenty percent democrat, a heavily gerrymandered district could put seventy five percent of the republicans in the same district and then let the democrats elect every other position, ultimately getting more power to the minority party.
We think that when representatives do not reflect the people, they will ultimately pass policy which does not reflect the people's needs.
It will allow them to continue to control the gerrymandered districts as well, because if they win elections on slim margins, they can always draw the lines further away from a particular group and guarantee they win in the future.
My second argument is it rewards abuses in power.
What's really problematic about gerrymandering is if you win as a result of gerrymandering, you're likely to do it again.
If you haven't been punished based on the lines that you've already drawn, redrawing them to give yourself a greater advantage will only put you in a greater seat of power.
For many people, if their political group is winning, they think the ends justify the means.
If your party stuffs the ballot the ballot box, at least your ideologies are being put in place.
This means that no political representative will likely be held accountable due to gerrymandering, and the only way it can be solved is using an automated machine like a computer.
My third argument is that gerrymandering discourages civic engagement.
The more chances you have to discuss things with the public and the more chances you have to discuss political districts with the public, the far more likely that you'll take flak.
It's easier to simply redraw the districts to empower yourself rather than engaging with the public in a meaningful sense.
By getting rid of gerrymandering, we will encourage debate and encourage individuals to interact to very advantageous ends.
For this reason, we should ban gerrymandering.