We should subsidize higher education.
Education is a right and not a privilege.
It is absolutely absurd that we stop paying for education at the end of high school.
In our modern day, it is incredibly difficult to live a happy and healthy life at the end of high school.
The total earning potential of someone who only finished high school is not too far off from someone who only finished middle school in terms of the jobs available.
The vast majority of jobs in our modern day, particularly in the united states, are only available to those who have finished their higher education.
Additionally, we think that education is facilitative to a number of other rights, including political speech and living a high quality of life.
To that end, we think that the government of the united states should provide a hundred percent coverage for all individuals who want to go to poverty.
Two arguments why this is a good idea: first, we think this is likely to alleviate poverty.
Why is this the case?
So, in early life, we think that many individuals are disenfranchised because of their inability to go to college.
Why would I work hard in high school when the grades won't be checked if I get a job without a bachelor's degree and there's no opportunity for me to go to college?
It's far more efficacious for me to skim by with d's, work another job in order to develop some human capital, and then go out into the workforce.
Although this is a incredibly sad choice to make, it is a common reality for many individuals who cannot afford college.
However, if were we to provide a hundred percent coverage for college, we think that individuals at an early stage in life are likely to work incredibly hard.
Even if they decide not to go to college, they're far more likely to go to trade school or, at the very least, work harder in high school and at their job in order to develop strong work ethics which will allow them to push themselves further.
The rhetoric of raising yourself up by your bootstraps is impossible when individuals do not even have the basic education that comes from high school, and policies like this are far more likely to increase motivation in high school.
Additionally, though, we think that individuals in poverty are far more likely to be able to access the best colleges possible based on their academic ability.
It's incredibly unfortunate that someone who gets into a top-tier school can't go there because they simply cannot afford it.
Many individuals are pushed into programs that they do not like as much or don't feel as motivated about because they cannot afford the best education that was offered to them.
Covering college one hundred percent is far more likely to allow individuals to access the college they want and, as such, feel better motivation.
The combination of all this, pushing huge numbers of people towards college because they can actually afford it now, increasing the total amount of motivation for individuals and poverty, and allowing individuals to access whatever school they would like, assuming they get in, does a few things.
First, we think it lets them access higher paying jobs.
Higher paying jobs lead to a higher quality of life and breaks cycles of poverty.
Additionally, we think individuals will have better access to politics, will have better networking, a a better understanding of the issues and, as such, be able to engage in a more meaningful discourse which will ultimately create better policies for the whole of the united states.
My second argument is this is likely to expand diversity in a number of spheres.
We think that individuals in poverty have a fairly high correlation to individuals who have been historically oppressed due to the color of their skin or the religion that they come from.
Putting these people into higher education and then higher paying jobs later on is likely to increase the quality of education in the first place.
Having diverse viewpoints and diverse voices in the classroom mean that all people can learn more effectively.
Additionally, though, we think that we're going to get a more tolerant society as a result of these kinds of policies.
When you have frequent contact with people from a variety of different races, you are far more likely to see them as equals and as common people deserving of respect.
Additionally, you're likely to hear their stories and understand the individual ways in which you can help other marginalized groups, pulling the whole of society up.
For this reason, we should subsidize higher education.