I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end censorship.
Although censorship can be used as a problematic tool, every single tool available to governments can be used in a bad way.
Rather than evaluating whether a tool can be used ineffectively or harmfully, we should evaluate the total effect of that tool and the most important uses to evaluate whether or not it should be removed.
We think that in the hands of an oppressive government censorship maybe bad, but as it is commonly used we think it is incredibly effective at protecting marginalized groups, preventing the proliferation of hate, and generally protecting important material that we think cannot be communicated about.
My first argument then, is about the proliferation of hate.
When you end censorship you effectively guarantee that individuals who want to spread hate have the best avenue possible to do so.
My opponent argues that problematic speech will fester if hidden.
But that's the thing, speech requires an audience.
Speech require someone to do it with.
We can never really regulate thought.
So it's not going to be different on either side the house in that regard.
But if individuals are not frequently told about things like nazi ideology or otherwise fascist ideology, they're not likely to become a fascist.
Individuals are as a result of our psychology, incredibly likely to jump on bandwagon's.
If they hear that everyone around them that all their friends believe a certain thing, they will also believe it.
If we censor hateful speech, individuals are considerably more likely not to fall into those problematic tendencies, are far more likely to avoid things like hate outright, and as a result we can prevent the proliferation of hate in that regard.
What's the result of this?
First, we think that hateful speech has no political impact except for to harm other individuals and as such, it has no value and can be censored.
But secondly, we think that there's a reciprocal obligation to the poorest in our society and the individuals who are the most marginalized, who have been used throughout history to empower the strongest in our nation.
Hateful speech has continuously been used as a way to put these individuals down and as such, we have an a priori obligation to prevent hateful ideology from spreading.
But finally, we think it's just pragmatically good for all people to prevent the spread of hate.
When individuals don't have biases against certain people, they're not going to have an issue if a certain person or a certain person of a given race is serving them whether it's as a doctor, in a restaurant, in any number of ways.
My second argument is the protection of important information.
Certain things should not be discussed.
We think that censoring government employees or individuals who work at power plants that could be targeted is essential to protect our national security and protect the security of all people.
Additionally, particular issues can be incredibly harmful.
If there is a case about assault we think that individuals who are involved can essentially have that trauma re-lived if individuals continuously discuss around them.
As such, it is important that we protect these individuals and guarantee that they have some amount of protection from oppressive individuals.
My third argument is about truth creation.
We think that truth is generally formulated by those individuals who shout the loudest and pay the most money.
These are always the strongest individuals.
These are the people who can truly construct our ideology and our world.
We think the worst off then have the least voice in our society and censorship is essential in equalizing individuals somewhat.
By insuring that individuals do not have the ability to interrupt other people as the say we censor speech which is in of itself oppressive, we are far more likely to have an equal society and a good society.
As such, we should not end censorship.