I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should disband unesco.
My opponent is correct that you unesco is noble in cause and purpose and fairly noble an execution as well.
It has been incredibly successful in preserving world heritage sites and guaranteeing that the cultural history of the world is protected.
Guaranteeing that the poorest and weakest in our society continue to have monuments to their past despite the will and the corruption that really plagues our world.
My opponent is truly incorrect in both of their arguments, and I will have three of my own to demonstrate the value of unesco.
So my opponent's first argument is that unesco is overly politicized.
That it has made decisions regarding israel that are unpopular and decisions regarding china that are corrupt.
So first let's deal with israel.
Literally any decision you make in regards to israel will be called corrupt, unfair, unjust.
If you were inactive, as the UN was during the seven year war, you'll see that the winning side will be seen as having corrupted the UN.
If the UN takes an action one way or the other it will also be acting inherently in a in an inherently political way.
As such, we don't think that these examples truly demonstrate that unesco is overly politicized.
Instead it simply tries to make decisions using the individual and yes, sometimes subjective value calculi, of its members.
This is the best that any organization can do and given that it is doing the best possible execution of noble cause and noble purpose we think that it ought continue its operations.
My his second argument was that it is a bad organization and has a history of corruption.
So the last meaningful example of corruption on the part of unesco was in the nineteen nineties.
Well, many organizations were awful in the nineties.
If you walked through new york you were likely to get like meaningfully harmed because it was so much more crime ridden.
Like things have meaningfully changed in the last about twenty years and we don't think unesco is currently corrupt.
In fact, it is majorly reformed its organizations to guarantee that corruption that will not occur at in the the present day.
There's far more oversight, far more active information, and the internet has facilitated a discourse which is truly important.
Which leads me to my three arguments: first on cooperation.
Unesco has been very valuable in fostering cooperation between states, particularly in areas where two states cannot agree over a particular item such as jerusalem.
When unesco has stepped in it has decreased violence by guaranteeing that the two states have no nothing else to argue with.
It is easy to argue with another sovereign but when arguing against the entire world community states tend to back off.
Additionally, the corporations in making these goals and truly discussing these ideas is also valuable.
When delegates from the US and china and russia and the UK all work together towards a particular goal they become closer and their cooperation can leach out into other forms of government to truly reform the process.
My second argument is about the creation of peace.
Generally UN unesco decisions increase the total amount of peace by decreasing the incentive to destroy world heritage sites and generally it mellows tensions among the aggressors on each side.
My third and final argument is about discourse.
There may be a discourse which exists over particular issues, such as things like jerusalem, such as other world heritage sites, but this discourse is not truly fruitful and considerably less valuable than how it it typically occurs in the unesco discussions.
We think that unesco as a truly peaceful organization which facilitates discourse is incredibly effective in creating reform and creating a better world.
For this reason we should not disband unesco.