We should legalize prostitution.
Although incredibly controversial, prostitution represents a legitimate profession particularly when the alternative is starvation.
Although many opponents of prostitution say that individuals are coerced into the system, it is unclear how it is meaningfully distinct from other forms of income or other professions.
As such, we support the following model, that any state which does not currently allow prostitution should legalize it under heavy regulation.
This includes but is not limited to particular areas where prostitutes are allowed to operate their business and bans on prostitutes with STD's, and large policing of areas where prostitution is prevalent.
Three arguments in support of this model.
First off on autonomy.
Individuals have the right over their own body.
They have the right of mobility, they have the right to interact with the particular people they want, and they have the ability to sell their own body for their own gain.
First off we think this right to autonomy stems from an idea of government consistency.
If we have the right to control what we put in our body, if we to control the ability to take out the right to life through things like abortion, we would say that individuals also have the right to sell their own bodies.
If we believe that prostitution is a discussion of one's bodily autonomy, governments can never regulate how we operate in this regard.
As I discussed above, some individuals say that prostitution is inherently coercive, that it is not an autonomous choice by the individual.
However, every single profession is sacrificing your age, your happiness, your time, essentially your body to a particular profession.
We don't think that prosecution is in anyway different and the only way prostitution can massively be restrictive can destroy people's autonomy is when they don't have legal protections over it.
This leads right to my second argument, the idea of regulation.
We think that governments have an obligation for public health and to protect individuals who engage in certain markets.
We think that regulations regarding things like STD's are important for public health.
It prevents individuals from spreading disease, it stops people from getting incredibly dangerous sexually transmitted diseases.
This is important for public health.
First off because individuals who have sex with prostitutes also have sex with other individuals when at certain times can spread sexually transmitted diseases, if there are sexually transmitted diseases among prostitutes.
Additionally when individuals catch these sexually transmitted diseases generally it is incredibly problematic as most of them are treated with antibiotics and antibiotic resistant STD's are currently developing, things like antibiotic resistant gonorrhea are incredibly problematic and lead to huge losses of quality of life and sometimes even death.
Additionally it protects prostitutes as well as inevitably they will lose their income due to getting an STD from an infected client.
We think that the ability to regulate both the prostitute and the the person purchasing the time with a prostitute means the protection of the whole of society and the prostitutes as well.
Finally, I want to discuss idea of legal standing.
There are two options for prostitutes in the status quo.
To have a pimp where a lot of your money goes to this individual, they're regularly abusive, they essentially sell you without your consent, or to have no protection.
This means you can be hurt by your client, you can be stolen from by your client, and are essentially have no recourse in any regard.
The government can step in providing increased autonomy to these women, increase profits for for these women as they operate legally and don't have to run from the law.
Additionally incredible protection from abusive clients.
This increases their autonomy as they have true choice of who they want to spend their time with.
Additionally can increase their prices allowing them to have to spend even less time selling their body.
If you think that prostitution is a bad thing it is incredibly clear that illegal prostitution is worse than legal prostitution, and as such we should legalize prostitution.