We should introduce compulsory voting.
Governments are only just when they reflect the will of the entirety of the population.
When a particular portion of the population is vastly over represented in the democratic process we see that politicians cater particularly to them and the government becomes an abusive force for the vast majority of the population.
Introducing compulsory voting is the best way to solve this and as such we support the following model.
In all places with ample access to voting booths and the resources to create more of them that compulsory voting should be put in place.
Individuals who do not vote on the designated day where they ought to vote where which we would say should also be a holiday which individuals can take time to vote they'll be met with a fine which will not be debilitating but will cause them meaningful harm.
Upwards of two hundred to five hundred dollars.
I have two arguments today.
First off on government legitimacy and the second on the effect on candidates.
Governments are only legitimate when they respect the will of the entirety of the population.
Individuals although voting is an individual act it is necessary for a government to understand what the whole of the population wants in order to create the best policy as possible.
What we mean by this is that democracy works in much the same way as a market.
The marketplace of ideas articulates its goals and purposes and candidates respond to represent those ideas.
When only certain portions of the population are acting government cannot be legitimate because it only hears some of the voices to exist in the world.
We would say the compulsory voting solves this in two ways.
First voting percentages will change certain issue rates will change.
Additionally we think that individuals when they are forced to be a part of the political process will do at least a little more research in understanding the issues surrounding the the voting surrounding the issues on the ballot and as such understand the system of government better and how they ought to vote.
Additionally we think that the entire mandate of government comes from the will of the people and when there are very low voter turnout rates it does not provide a clear mandate to the government.
We think that having a system of compulsory voting will allow the government to make a clear claim to power or understand that is not the most popular thing in the world if the candidate wins by only fifty percent it ought to understand that it does not have the whole nation behind it and ought to a lot of work towards bipartisan good.
Alternatively if someone wins by a massive margin we would say that they ought to fight for their own party's goals but this is only possible when the whole of the nation is voting not just sixty to seventy percent.
Now my second argument is that compulsory voting will positively affect candidates.
This is in two ways.
First we think that candidates will do a lot more campaigning in states and with certain individuals who they think are less likely to vote.
What we mean by this is that in the status quo politicians cater primarily to the elderly.
This is because almost every elderly individual votes at least when compared to other portions of the population.
When you force all individuals who are eligible to vote to actually take part in the process there will be major incentive for candidates to inform the entirety of the population about the issues, to campaign on a variety of different fields so that we can understand what is important.
We think I think that this will lead to greater bipartisanship and policy making as individuals will have better empathy and understand the problems better.
Additionally this will affect policy as candidates understand that they must fight for the whole of the population and not just pass things like increased medicare while cutting poverty alleviation for young people.
As such we should introduce compulsory voting.