We should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
Although many liberal activist groups have pushed the importance of unisex bathrooms in many ways they have made the lives of women considerably worse.
This is not because any inherent danger of having all genders in the same room, but simply put the bathroom represents a safe space.
There's a reason that the vast majority of universities put information about sexual assault and sexual assault counseling in bathrooms.
When I go into a bathroom I expect to see many of my peers and many individuals with whom I do not expect come into any confrontation with.
For women particularly, going into a bathroom after being harmed represents a space where no male bodied individual can come in and harass them.
Prohibiting unisex bathrooms guarantees that safe spaces for certain individuals will always exist regardless of activist pressure.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that the united states should ban unisex bathrooms out right.
Any organization which attempts to put unisex bathrooms in place will face minor fees, minor fines, but as long as they comply with government orders it will not be a massive fine which will hamper their business.
With that in mind we have three arguments: first off is comfort.
Many individuals feel uncomfortable when individuals of a different gender are in their bathroom.
If I go into a bathroom and I would like to use a urinal but there are many women in that space I feel less comfortable, I feel like my very presence could be problematic or uncomfortable for them.
This is very clearly true on the opposite end of the spectrum where things like sanitary pads, menstruation products, and other things which have a variety of stigma in the status quo are disposed of or obtained.
We would say that is important to maintain this binary.
This difference between the two gendered bathrooms simply put because they represent a locus of power.
Many individuals either find solace in these spaces or otherwise practice taboo actions or honestly just maintain their bodies.
And more importantly though is individuals who've experience trauma due to individuals of a different gender can find solace in these bathrooms.
Taking this away from individuals makes them feel less safe, less comfortable, and honestly takes away their ability to simply use the bathroom.
If individuals cannot use the bathroom when they leave the house, than they honestly can't leave the house.
Maintaining access to a public sphere depends on free access to bathrooms which is essential.
And as such we would support banning unisex bathrooms.
Now very clearly my opponents will come up and say that access for non binary individuals is also important.
We would say that these individuals can use any bathroom which represents the gender with which they identify with, but they must identify with one of the genders on the binary.
We see think that they these harms are fairly minor compared to the harms of pushing women out of spaces which they find essential to be comfortable.
My second argument is about efficiency.
Quite simply, is important to be able to use the bathroom efficient efficiently.
Unisex bathrooms given an excuse for corporations to have only have one bathroom, but furthermore things like urinals, sanitary pads, other infrastructure which make the bathroom more efficient for a particular gender, are also very important.
My third and final argument is about the political effects of unisex bathrooms.
When individuals feel like the government is being problematic or too liberal, they typically take that violence out on the communities which the government would like to support.
By banning unisex bathrooms it becomes incredibly clear that the government is not experiencing any bias and as such will likely see a decrease in hate crimes and violence towards trans and other individuals who do not identify with the gender on the gender binary.
As such we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.