I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize women in stem and science.
Now my primary issue with my opponents arguments is that they don't address the potential reaction of individuals when they see subsidies for women in science.
This is another form of affirmative action.
And although I believe that affirmative action is good, and I would prefer a world in which they there were more women in science, the backlash against this kind of policy would be monumental.
Additionally, it would fail to solve the root cause and would create a feeble infrastructure to from which to build women in science.
To truly get meaningful change there need to be grassroots organization that does not come from the government level.
With that in mind I have three arguments: first off on backlash.
Now if you look to affirmative action you can see that it has caused incredible harm for many individuals who have benefited from it.
Every time a person of color gets into a college there's a question from the individuals around them about whether they earned their way there or whether it was affirmative action that got them there.
Now every individual who benefits from an affirmative action also earned their way to wherever they are.
If someone is at harvard and their a black individual, it is indisputable that they got their on their own merits.
They had systemic barriers which attempted to stop them from getting that far in life and yet they got past it.
Now the problem is that's not how most individuals see it.
When someone is getting paid more money than you, when someone is being allowed into universities more easily than you because of things like their gender, that is where individuals feel the worst.
And although the true historical imbalance will always preference white man, that's not how they see it.
The other issue is that white men primarily control the reins of power at universities and in the job market.
As such, this backlash could be monumental.
Let's first discuss universities and the educational sphere.
If women start to get more scholarships towards them men will have a few reactions.
First they'll be angry that they're not getting the same scholarships.
This enough is is enough to breed anger, breed general distaste towards women in science even if they're not benefiting from these kinds of scholarships.
Secondly though, we think that they'll see the people there as non-deserving.
They'll see people as pursuing physics biology or chemistry simply because they were going to get money rather than because it's their passion.
This will also lead to discrimination.
The primary issue with women getting into science is not just the money, it's about people not accepting them.
By exacerbating this problem you'll actually decrease the total number of women in science.
It's incredibly difficult to put a price on harassment, so increasing the total amount of harassment within science will simply push people out, particularly when they get this harassment at the university level and not just the job level.
This brings me to my second argument, that this doesn't solve the root cause.
If you want to get meaningful change in science you need to get a discourse started.
The issue is that this sort of discourse will be inherently polarizing.
Someone might be in favor of women in science but also be fairly bitter that they worked tooth and nail to get where they are and yet they did not get the same sort of benefits as women in science.
As such, we think the polarizing discourse will be incredibly difficult to overcome and change the culture within science overall.
Third and finally, this is a fairly feeble infrastructure from which to build women in science.
Private scholarships for women have been fairly successful.
It's unlikely that these private organizations will collapse overall, but governments can change overnight.
This means that women may be apprehensive of going into science unless it's their passion because they could very well lose their scholarships into the long term.
This means that is it is unlikely that women are going to stem simply for this increase amount of money.
For this reason we should not subsidize women in science.