I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase gun control.
Although guns are at their basis weapons of great destruction, it they are also essential for self-defense and a variety of circumstances.
Governments stepping in and taking away the rights of the people and the right to self-defense is fundamentally unjust and will be largely ineffective in actually stopping gun usage among criminals.
I have three arguments.
First off on efficacy second on self-defense and third on rights.
So first about efficacy.
The goal of gun control is to stop guns for getting in the hands of criminals.
Unfortunately, making it more difficult to get guns is unlikely to cause this change particularly in the united states and other countries were gun control is more regular.
Individuals will feel very strongly against powerful gun control which will cause a couple harms.
First, they'll be unwilling to give up their guns and the massive amount of guns which currently exist in the world will continue to circulate easily.
Any attempts by government to take their guns will likely lead to conflicts like waco and ruby ridge which will inevitably lead to violence and even more distrust from among people towards their government.
Additionally, there will always be smugglers and other individuals willing to bring guns into the country to allow criminals to access them as such, it is impossible to stop the individuals who are committing murders and the vast majority of crimes from accessing guns.
This will mean that the only thing that happens due to increased gun control is that common citizens lose the ability to defend themselves from someone who got their guns illegally.
My second argument is the idea of self-defense.
Although many people do have ample defense by calling the police, they also fail in a variety of circumstances.
Discussing primarily the united states there are two areas in which guns are required for self-defense.
First off in the city.
Particularly areas were cops refuse to actively patrol or actively stop people.
Cities are essential to guns are essential to have in cities where the police are ineffective particularly in areas with high numbers of people of color where the police have shown time and time again that they're ineffective or otherwise harm the people there.
If you do not have a gun you face the potential for a large amount of crime.
Furthermore we would say at the point where police are failing government has no right to tell people how to defend themselves as such, taking away people's right to have a gun will only lead to more violence and more crime in these communities as the common criminal will be less afraid that someone has a gun or could otherwise defend themselves.
Additionally, in rural communities, guns are also required.
Unfortunately, in places like the united states there's simply not enough police to patrol the entire country.
There are massive swaths of land where if you do not have a gun and you are robbed you will simply die or have no defense and it takes cops at least an hour to get to your house.
We think it's essential that people there have guns in order to defend their life and their property.
This brings me to my third and final argument, the idea of rights.
We think that individuals are only free if they feel secure in their home and their property.
If your property can easily be stolen, if your home can easily be threatened by someone with a gun and you have no recourse for this, inevitably you will feel less safe.
You will feel that the government has betrayed you and will otherwise be unhappy with your lot in life.
We think that first off the government has an obligation to allow people to defend themselves as the right to self-defense is the right to self-defense is facilitated to the right to life and the right to life is facilitative to nearly all other rights as such, government taking away your right to gun control, the right to protect your property, and the right to protect yourself, is massive a massive rights violation and will generally lead to more oppression.
As such, we should not increase gun control.