I stand in firm opposition to the motion national service should be mandatory in the US.
National service represents a fairly restrictive, a fairly cult-like organization within the united states, in the status quo.
Making it mandatory violates the rights of every american and inevitably puts the people against the government.
Because we think this will lead to far more conflict than actual progress, we would say that national service should not be mandatory.
Three arguments, but first an overview.
We can use the same resources that would otherwise go to national service to fund social programs, to fund programs that stop people from being unemployed, particularly young people.
Recognize that the money going to this program and the time going to this program, from the individuals who are forced into it, will not be useful.
If I intend to be a doctor, being in the the national service does not help me towards that goal.
If I want to be a computer programmer, it doesn't help me learn valuable skills.
My opponent has to take one of two stances: he must either accept that these individuals will not have enough training to be meaningfully helpful in specialize skills, in which case, government will simply be spending money to train them, which they could do more effectively with work in the private sector.
Or he accepts that they will put be put in non-skilled roles where they don't develop their human capital capital in any meaningful sense.
My first argument is the idea of consent.
Individuals do not consent to the state in which they are born.
The lottery of birth means that individuals are born into their situation with no consent on their behalf.
Because of this, we would say that assuming that they have an obligation to the state as a whole, simply because they're born there, is fundamentally unjust and further exploits them after they've already been harmed by the lottery of birth.
Furthermore, we would say that assuming there is an obligation to the people around you because you were raised in a particular community is additionally unjust.
This is for two reasons: first, there's no guarantee that the people around you actually supported you.
In many ways, you could have had to fight for your own place in society and as such, you have no obligation to the people around you.
Secondly, gifts do not create obligation.
If I decide to paint your house and then demand that you pay me a hundred dollars, that would be unjust.
Even if you like the the color your house is, we would say that unless someone consents to a particular transaction, it is unjust to then expect them to pay it back.
Secondly, I want to discuss the idea of propaganda.
National service, particularly the military, is a hotbed for nationalist propaganda.
We would say that other organizations which are depend on serving the community would likely use similar tactics.
Propaganda makes a these organizations considerably more efficient, as you can tell them that they're serving their country and in the same vein, tell them that failing would otherwise be harming their country.
Because there will always be an incentive for organizers to use propaganda, additionally there'll be an incentive for governments to push propaganda.
We would say that individuals in these organizations are unlikely to critique the government as effectively as their counterparts who did not take part in national service.
As such, we think that there'll be a general decrease in the critique of government.
This means that they'll be able to get away with more abusive policies and secondly, we would say this will lead to more nationalism, patriotism, and likely xenophobia, as you believe that your culture is inherently better than others.
Finally I want to discuss the the history of oppression in the united states.
Many people who are in the southern parts of the united states believe that government already oversteps its bounds.
Forcing every single person, with no meaningful reason, to join national service will lead to profound political and social backlash.
Inevitably, it will lead to greater schisms between the right and the left in this country which will only lead to more conflict, violence, and worse policies overall.
For this country to move forward, it needs bipartisanism, and this sort of policy creates a schism.
As such, national service should not be mandatory in the united states.