We should cancel pride parades.
Pride parades while meaningful expressions of queer identity, ultimately lead to massive targets against the queer community both metaphorically and directly.
Because pride parades pose a danger to the whole community, we say that they should be banned.
Even if they didn't pose a danger to the community, we would say that their purpose and their the causes that they try to forward have largely been supplanted by corporations and other movements and as such, pride parades should be canceled simply to reclaim what was taken from them.
With that mind, we would support the following model: that the organizers of pride parades should shut them down, and that other forms of queer expression should be adopted instead.
My first argument is about the effect on the movement that pride parades have.
We think that pride parades are largely not reflective of the community which is doing them.
What this means is that the the community is largely labeled off the actions of a few incredibly extreme individuals and the pride parades in places like portland, seattle, los angeles, new york are largely used as fodder in the -tacks against queer communities in rural areas.
This is incredibly problematic as it decreases the total access to rights that these people have.
When someone is walking around in spandex waving around prophylactic equipment, we think that that should be their right but when it is used to oppress other individuals it cannot be continued.
Because we think that the queer movement is harmed by pride parades, we think that canceling it will largely lead to greater political efficacy which will lead to a decrease in police brutality, increased protections in the labor market and in the housing market, and ultimately just a community which is far better equipped to protect queer individuals.
My second argument is that pride parades have been co-opted by other movements which should not be allowed to use them.
First, we think that corporations have largely used pride to push their own products, they buy huge floats, they sponsor parts of the parade, they way to advertise this community rather than support them.
We think the purpose of pride largely came through the protests that were occurred on the streets, through the riots which occurred to fight against oppression.
When corporations who have largely pushed for this kind of oppression, largely push for this kind of violence use a sort of thing we think that's kind of unjust and can never be allowed by these movements in order to support and preserve its core.
We think that first there's an obligation to the past communities who have been harmed by these corporations to prevent them from supplanting the movement but secondly, we would say just for future efficacy as well for drawing in more individuals from having a clear message which can be brought to a political level, these corporations cannot be allowed to take the movement.
Additionally, other movements have been used within pride to push their own goals.
We think that the inherent connotation and the inherent links between these movements in the queer community which come as a result of pride, largely perverts the movement as a whole, distorts and disrupts the narrative, and as such, makes political activism considerably more difficult.
My third and final argument is that they are a target for attack.
Unfortunately, we still see massive numbers of hate crimes occurring every single year.
That we believe that the LGBTQ movement has an obligation to their own members to guarantee that they're protected against this kind of violence.
They are the individuals with the greatest knowledge and the greatest motivation to protect their community as a whole.
As such, we think that the density of individuals in the space largely makes them a target for violence, makes them a target for hate crimes and this is an inevitability which cannot be allowed to continue.
We would say that any organization of individuals based on a single identity which is largely stigmatized in our society probably should not be continued and as members and leaders of the queer movement this needs to be stopped.
As such, we should cancel pride parades.