I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should privatize water.
Water, as the fundamental building block of all life on this planet, cannot belong to private corporations.
Corporations respond to supply and demand.
When there's profound demand for a product, when there is no way to get through a week without having access to a product, corporations will inevitably abuse their consumers in an in in an attempt to expand their own bottom line.
Because we think privatizing water would inevitably inevitably put thousands of lives at risk while also destroying many local economies, we would I stand in firm opposition to this motion.
I have two arguments in today's debate for why privatizing water would be catastrophic.
First is that the market fails for these particular types of products and second, there'll actually be less liability and less accountability for private corporations than the government.
First off, on the market.
The market can fail in a variety of circumstances.
The first circumstance in which it can fail is if there is a monopoly.
It is impossible to have a variety of individuals control the water source.
The vast majority of states, of cities, have a single reservoir feeding their area.
It is not cost efficient to have multiple reservoirs, as the upkeep of a reservoir costs massive amount of money.
As such, in any area where a corporation already exists which controls the water supply, there is never an incentive for another corporation to move in, as competition will inevitably drive the price down such that each corporation is not making enough money to continue.
This monopoly means that the owner of the water can jack up the price to whatever value they see fit.
For some goods, this is acceptable.
For things like stereos, where they're a monopoly, individuals would simply move away from that product.
However, in the case of water, the market will always fail because of the second criteria in which water falls under: that is, water is an essential good.
It is truly inelastic because no matter what the price, people will continue to buy it, as they must buy it to survive.
This is problematic because the combination of it being an essential good with the monopoly which currently exists means that if a corporation controls it, they can put the price to whatever level they see fit, and people will have no option but to buy water.
As such, private corporations will drain people's wallets as much as possible and essentially put people into poverty, if they even want to survive.
Even if government steps in, the fact that these corporations could shut down, either temporarily in order to recoup costs or in the long term, forcing other actors to move in, will shut off people's water supply in the short term, making it impossible for them to live in that particular area.
The combination of the fact that there's no incentive for individuals to build water supplies in areas which they currently exist with the fact that they will abuse their power means that the market ought not be the arbiter of who gets water.
My second argument is that there's going to be less accountability.
First, you can't really charge individuals with the crime of not providing water efficiently or not at a fair price, because then the company who has it will face far more problems.
If I face millions of dollars due to being sued, I will simply cease to exist, and then I will leave as the CEO of the company.
These are limited liability corporations which control things like the water supply, and they are named limited liability for a reason.
If you sue a corporation, you're not suing any individual, and if that corporation ceases to exist, you have no case.
Furthermore, even if the corporation continues to exist, charging them millions and millions of dollars because of their offenses will simply give them greater incentive to continue charging people high prices, while giving them fewer resources to actually fix the water supply.
As such, we should not privatize water.