We should abolish homework.
Homework is an outdated tool which would largely be rendered unnecessary if we were simply to extend the school day by about an hour.
Because we think that homework is not very effective, ultimately diminishes the health of students, and increases educational inequalities, we would say that homework should be abolished.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that the department of education should recommend that teachers assign no homework, that local school districts should do the exact same.
We will allow teachers to have autonomy.
They may still assign a project.
They may still require small amounts of homework, however, we think that is important that the total amount of homework that is given in the status quo decreases substantially.
My first argument is about health.
We think that students have considerably worse health due to homework.
First, we think that they are far more stressed.
When individuals have a variety of looming projects, they are far less likely to feel comfortable.
It's even worse because teachers do not collaborate in terms of when they're going to assign their projects.
Many teachers have the same sort of dates in mind: right before breaks, right after breaks, on fridays.
We see that teachers largely assign the same sort of dates for when homework is due.
What this means is that students have huge amounts of work that all come at the exact same time.
All people are bad at conceptualizing long-term harms and long-term goals.
They're bad at understanding how much they can achieve given enough time.
What this means is that procrastination is inevitable.
It's human and, as such, students have incredible amounts of stress as a result of having to do huge amounts of homework all during one day.
This stress leads to a decrease in their health, makes it so they're far less likely to feel comfortable on a daily basis, far less likely to get the right answer to an effectively through the homework, and to feel good on the next day.
This leads me to my next point under this first argument, that of sleep.
We think that when students have to do huge amounts of work all in one night, they stay up till three, four AM.
When they have to get up and be at school by eight AM the next day, they get incredibly little sleep.
Students who do not get sleep cannot focus in class, cannot be active participants, and largely just have wasted an entire day.
Because we think that this ultimately means that students get less time being effectively educated, we should abolish homework.
My second argument and final argument is that of academic inequality.
What homework does is it puts the onus on parents and tutors to teach these sort of resources, to teach this sort of information.
It further requires that students usually lean on their parents, even if they don't have tutors there.
Additionally, if parents are unaware or just too busy to understand the homework load, we also think that puts students at a disadvantage.
As a result, we see that wealthier people will consistently do better on homework.
This is bad on two fronts.
First, it creates a clear point disparity between wealthier individuals and poorer individuals, which ultimately leads to worse colleges, tracking which puts them in worse classes, and generally leads to a long-term cycle of poverty which extends the school to prison pipeline.
Additionally, though, we think that putting the onus on parents to teach the sort of material makes it so students who are poor, who do not have as many resources, are simply less likely to understand the material when they get to class the next day.
Because we think this leads to long-term inequality, we should abolish homework.