We should ban alcohol.
Few substances have had as disastrous an effect as alcohol on the whole of the world population.
Alcohol has torn families apart.
It has caused unknown levels of violence while also destroying those who consume it.
Quite simply, government has an obligation both to the individuals who would otherwise consume alcohol, but particularly to those who would otherwise be harmed by the individuals who consume alcohol, to ban it outright.
As such we support the following model: that all democratic states ban alcohol.
I want to give a brief overview before I give two arguments: first about health and second about third party harms.
Now in my overview, I want to address the obvious opposition that will come from my opponents.
They will say that prohibition fails.
That this particular kind of prohibition has been attempted in the past and only lead to more crime and more corruption.
Each and every year information technology gets better.
Policing gets better.
At the time of the initial prohibition all that detectives were able to work on were rumors and hunches.
At this point in time we have amazing technology for tracking goods, for tracking objects, for tracking individuals, which will allow law enforcement to ban alcoholic beverages if they so please.
Because the lion share of alcohol would likely be produced in the state, as that is the cheapest way to do it, all production will be domestic which can easily be shut down by the police.
As such, if we decide that alcohol should be banned, there's clear efficacy to make it happen.
Now my first argument is about health.
We would say that government has an obligation to step in when individuals do not have adequate information to make decisions about how taking a particular action will affect them.
There are a few reasons why individuals can't conceptualize the act of drinking alcohol in a logical way: first, there's a massive social pressure for the consumption of alcohol.
If you want to be accepted in modern day life, if you want to be accepted in the workforce, alcohol is is pushed on you.
We would say that because there are such social pressures, that only government can step in to truly stop the consumption of alcohol by individuals who would otherwise not want to consume it.
Additionally, there are profound pressures which come from corporations and lobbyists to push alcohol on younger and younger individuals.
Because there is a profound amount of money in marketing, in psychology, in understanding why people buy these goods, we believe that they can't meaningfully consent to their consumption.
What this means is individuals destroy their kidneys, get alcohol poisoning, are pushed into a toxic behavior which could ultimately end or ruin their life simply because of external pressures.
Government must step in to right this wrong, because they're the only actors which can meaningfully do so.
Now my second argument is about third party harms.
Government has an obligation to step in when a particular action has third party harms.
The consumption of alcohol very clearly has these harms.
When individuals drive under the influence they cost considerably more accidents.
They cause mass amounts of property damage, but even more often, they cause loss of life.
Because we think driving under the influence is never acceptable but also incredibly difficult to police, because you have to pull over every person who's driving even a little bit bad to find out if they're under the influence, was ban it at it source, and ban alcohol beverages out right.
Additionally, alcohol leads to violence and anger which destroys families and harms individuals who are simply living their day to day life.
As such we should ban alcoholic beverages.