Physical education should be mandatory.
There are few subjects as important to an individual's entire life then physical education.
Physical education allows individuals to remain informed about their bodies, informed about the strategies to take care of themselves, and allows them to breed an entire culture of breed a active lifestyle that will help them through the rest of their lives.
As such we would support the model that in all schools, private or public, physical education should be a mandatory class for all students.
I have two arguments today for why physical education is an incredibly important.
First is health.
In the status quo there is a profound obesity epidemic occurring in many states around the world.
In the united states obesity is a leading cause of death due to things like heart disease, lung disease, caused by obesity and other weight based illnesses.
Physical education is essential as it trains students to have an active lifestyle.
This is this happens in two ways.
First, it teaches students that physical activity can be fun.
We think that technology in the modern day makes it so most recreation occurs inside in front of a screen.
PE introduces students to a variety of outdoor activity this is things like jump roping, playgrounds.
What's incredibly important here is also sports.
We think that a lot of individuals get their first access to sports in PE class.
By teaching students how to be healthy, by introducing them to a variety of activities which will help them maintain a healthy lifestyle throughout their lives, physical education allows individuals to avoid the obesity epidemic and remain healthy for longer.
We would say that this is inherently good as individuals will live better quality will have a higher quality of life and live longer.
We would also say that physical education allows individuals to learn more about their body as I said before allowing them to avoid things like STDs, drug abuse, and other problematic things, and pressures that they would otherwise face in their schools.
Now my second argument is that individuals do better in other classes when they are active.
A massive reason why students have trouble getting through the day is because they're either hyper because they haven't been outside, or just dead tired because sitting in a chair all day puts people to sleep.
Having a break in the middle of the day for physical activity allows students to do better in other classes as they've gotten some of their energy out, they've worked as a team in these PE classes, and generally are ready to tackle the rest of their classes after going through the class.
My opponent might come up here and say that recess solves the sort of gap in the status quo but we would first say that many high schools and middle schools recess is being cut as time goes on or students just find it more socially acceptable to sit inside all day rather than playing with friends.
Additionally, the more physical education that we can have these students do the better.
We think that when students consistently do anaerobic exercise and work on a daily basis we think that this can lead to better strategies outside of school.
Additionally, if students need to get their homework done or study for a test, if they get all the physical education that they need to get through in a day in the school day, we think that this will allow them to better focus outside of school as well.
So because we think that physical education improves the health of all students and improves their performance in school in general, we would say that PE should be mandatory.