I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should prohibit slum tourism.
Although slum tourism might be intuitively unacceptable when looking at the actual logistics and the people that it helps, prohibiting it should be the last thing that we do.
My arguments will largely center on the benefits of slum tourism but we must also keep in mind that by prohibiting it we take massive government action which restricts the rights of individuals.
All of the arguments made in this debate must be understood through this lens to understand further why they are unacceptable.
I have two arguments for why this is a bad idea.
First off, on how tourism benefits the economy and second, on the political effects of slum tourism but first some overviews an extraneous rebuttal.
Or to talk about where this happens in the first place because we don't think it happens, in say, a village or a certain area which is not part of say a megacity but actually happens in largely urbanized environments where there are other institutions in the area which allow individuals to see the extent of poverty rather than in very rural areas.
This is incredibly important because we will understand that empowering people in a particular part of a city actually increases their political efficacy rather than keeping them down.
This leads me to my first point to rebuttal.
My opponent tells us that there's that this will lead to an incentive to hold down members of the community.
So this certainly won't stem from a political incentive given that the power of political office depends on the constituents they have in that sort of area.
This means that if you're all of your constituents are poor, you will have incredibly little power to pass effective policy will be seen as incredibly villainous or problematic if you try to keep them down.
In terms of corporations there are so many poor places on earth that no single corporation would have an incentive to keep an area down simply to continue its slum tourism.
It is very likely that trying to keep them down would backfire massively and they understand this.
It could backfire in one of two ways.
First, they could be found out by the local population as such, they will be ousted outright.
Their tours will be heckled and rejected and as such, they will no longer be able to make money or they will be found out by the wealthy individuals on these tours.
These individuals who think that they have a heart of gold and are trying to do the most good possible.
If they know that a institution is trying to keep down members of the third world and keep them in poverty, they will never be patronized again.
The risk will always outweigh the rewards for these companies and as such, they will not try to keep individuals down.
My -ponents second argument is that individuals will see the third word world as destitute.
It's unclear why this is a bad thing.
My opponent says oh news is enough for people to understand the destitution the third world we don't need more of it.
So it's very different when you see trash heaps and see total urban decay than when you simply see it on TV.
First world experience, first hand experience is far more likely to create meaningful change and actually help individuals but secondly, we think the opposite's actually true.
When you are individuals who go on slum tours are also likely to stay in the wealthier areas and bus and during the day as such, they'll get a view of both worlds understanding that these areas have a lot to offer economically and culturally but also understanding that the poor still need help.
This brings me to my first argument about how this is economically good for the area.
All of these tour companies will always employee local individuals.
My opponent likes to say that all the money goes to the agency.
Well this is fundamentally impossible because they'll employ locals as they have the best understanding what's happening and also are the individuals most likely to work cheaply for the corporation.
Additionally, we think that some tourism will also involve patronizing individual businesses.
No one wants to go to a sodexo cafeteria on a slum tour as it would be seen as ingenuous and ungenuine.
As such, they are likely to patronize local businesses increasing the total amount of money that these people have.
My second argument is about the political effects of slum tourism.
We believe that individuals as they start to tour to certain areas will draw investment into these areas increasing their lot.
Additionally, they are far more likely to fight for international aid and support for impoverished areas they understand what these individuals are going through.
As such, we will see an increase in donations to things like doctors without borders, the red cross, which will always allow people to survive better and live a higher quality of life in poor areas.
As such, we should not prohibit slum tourism.