I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban hunting.
Hunting as both an important past time and as a tool for conservation should not be banned by the federal government.
This is a gross overstep of the government's power and is a violation of the social contract.
It reduces the utility that all hunters would otherwise gain through hunting but also makes conservation considerably more difficult for a variety of reasons.
With this in mind I have two arguments, first about conservation and second about how this is a government overstep.
First, hunting is an incredible tool for conservation.
This is in three different ways.
First off on tag hunting, trophy hunting, and big game hunting.
Now when you want to hunt something like a white rhino, like a lion you have to pay massive amounts of money for it.
Typically when you are flown to africa to hunt a a rhino, when you're flown to canada to hunt a big horned elk, the reason that this actually occurs is because conservation groups have auctioned off the rights to hunt this sort of animal.
They use the proceeds from this sort of hunt to fund conservation areas, to fund the continued protection of big game and to generally improve the life of all fauna in the area.
Additionally, when the tags of a certain animal are sold it is typically because either that animal is inefficient, it is essentially past its mating period and being dangerous to other animals or simply a bully.
When a white rhino has gone on a rampage and killed many female and killed many young individuals in an attempt to maintain its hierarchy and control over its flock that is when conservation groups sell their tag.
This means that they can save massive amounts of money on actually having to kill the animal themselves while also raising thousands of dollars to protect other animals.
Now the second way the hunting is important for conservation is licenses.
Now when we offer licenses for particular animals, it isn't because these animals need to die.
There's a deer hunting season because if we did not hunt deer they would overrun their particular communities.
We see this in the pacific northwest of the united states where in certain time frames hunting particular animals were banned.
As such they were able to expand massively, threatening the ecosystem of other animals.
My opponent talks at length of cruelty but there is nothing more cruel than having an animal balloon in population, eat all of the food, and then starve out the entirety of the ecosystem.
It is very clear that if we want to maintain balance we must have these licenses.
Furthermore these licenses define how many animals you can kill and at what time you can kill them further ensuring that the ecosystem is maintained.
Finally we think that even casual hunting supports the political efficacy behind groups who want to fight for sanctuaries and other protection of animals.
There's no reason why people want to defend things like the wolf either individuals completely alienated from the situation like urban-dwellers or people who never met a wolf on the other side of the spectrum there exists farmers whose flocks are threatened by these wolves.
Luckily hunters are able to step in and defend these these wolves large because they want to hunt them.
Overall this is how conservation policies are passed with bipartisan support by left-wing individuals who simply don't want animals to die and right-wing individuals who want to hunt them.
Now my second argument is how this is a government overstep.
Yuval recognizes at the top of his speech that this is a truly illogical standard where we can use cruel or inhumane tactics against animals we kill for food verses animals we kill for sport or pleasure.
First we think that a lot of hunting is done for food.
Individuals want to know where their food comes from so that's why they hunt so we'd say it's illogical to say it's okay to kill things on a farm after you've raised them from birth verses when you kill them out in the nature.
But secondly we think that individuals ought be able to garner utility through the act of hunting and government stepping in and banning them is a gross violation of their obligations under the social contract.
For this reason, I am so proud to say that we should not ban hunting.