I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should fight the gender pay gap.
I will admit right off the bat that the gender pay gap does exist.
I will admit right off the bat that the gender pay gap is arbitrary.
It's based on individual's perceptions.
The fact that men who control many businesses and even women who control businesses undervalue their female workers leads to a discrimination affect.
It leads to a clear difference in the amount of money that goes to women versus men.
The problem is that away this sort of pay gap or at least attempting to doesn't actually solve anything.
Here's the problem: when a when someone sees a man as being inherently worth more than a woman they're going to pay that woman less.
By saying that the woman must be paid more, essentially that you have to pay the woman more than you think that's their market value, you're ultimately just going to hire a man instead.
This is incredibly problematic.
I have two arguments to prove this: first, it decreases women's employment as I stated in my overview.
If I'm someone who's intrinsically sexist, if I think men just do better work and I think that a man should be paid a dollar for every seventy five cents a woman makes, the result is that I am going to hire men at a higher rate and higher women at a lower rate.
If I'm say pay women thirty thousand dollars and men forty thousand dollars but I think it's all equitable, that's horrible.
It's just terrible but away doesn't solve anything.
But putting a policy in place does as it makes me say, I have to pay a woman forty thousand dollars for the same amount of work I expect from a man.
Now I'm either going to a, try to hire more men because I just don't think I'm getting my money's worth out of women who have to pay more now or alternatively, I'm going to hire men that cost more money that is to say, if a woman's now asking for say fifty thousand dollars I'm gonna look for men who want about seventy thousand dollars and think that their wages should be equitable in that regard.
The problem therein is the policy will change in a different way alternately pushing up wages overall but not actually increasing women's employment.
We think the most disenfranchised someone can be is if they are not employed.
So decreasing women's employment is far more problematic than actually fighting this pay gap.
The second problem with this kind of policy is increases the liability that comes from hiring women.
If I think that someone thinks they're being underpaid, if someone feels like they're a victim of the gender pay gap as a result of my policy, I think they're going to sue me.
That means if I hire a woman it comes with increased liability.
This is the same sort of logic people use when they are afraid of hiring women who they think might become mothers.
Long term maternity leave that has to be paid is not good for the company.
Now if I think, hey my company might get sued as a result of the are pay policies, as a result of a manager who's not understanding things effectively, are applying the metrics very correctly, I'm not going to hire women because of the increased risk that comes as a result of this.
Even if someone ultimately feels like women and men should be paid the same amount and even it puts this sort of policy in place, without this sort of actual regulation being put down, we think the result is that they'll be more afraid to hire women because they're more likely to sue as a result of this kind of policy.
The second argument is backlash.
We think that there are many sexist individuals and conservative individuals who are likely to push other policies as a result of this.
Many people don't think that the gender pay gap exists and as a result of trying to put regulations in place that enforce us trying to fight it, the result is that people will push back with alternative regulations, things that destroy the rhetoric that ultimately diminish workers' rights are bad for all people.
This'll be one step forward and two steps back and for this reason, we should not fight the gender pay gap.