We should subsidize wikipedia.
One of the greatest inventions of the twenty first century is wikipedia.
It has created the best encyclopedia that has ever been known anytime in history.
Not only does it create easy access to all information, something that was truly impossible before the invention of the internet, but it also contains more information than any other document, any other resource that has ever been existed in history.
The reason for this is that when more individuals have input and more individuals can discuss certain issues, the truth is far more likely to come out.
Unfortunately, wikipedia is constantly struggling for money.
It is nonprofit and it has no advertisements and as such, only loses money when individual enter the site without donating money.
By subsidizing wikipedia we will have profound good and generally have no harms.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the governments around the world pay for the entirety of wikipedia.
That their entire budget be spread cross a few first world countries including the united states, the UK, france, germany, china.
Every state that allows open and easy access to wikipedia should pay some portion of its budget.
The budget of wikipedia is incredibly small, so we imagine that this will cause no change in total services between any state.
Additionally, all the current money that wikipedia earns from donations from other organizations and from particular individuals will now be spent to expand the site, pay for better servers, and pay for more moderators to insure that vandalism does not occur.
Two arguments why this is a good idea.
First, why wikipedia is free from capture.
Now the major fear with subsidization is that individuals will become lazy and stop innovating and the government could potentially capture the industry creating fear of criticism and generally reducing the efficacy of the service.
Now why are both of these unlikely to occur?
First, on innovation.
Honestly, wikipedia hasn't innovated for the last ten years.
As a very simple formula individuals go onto the site, edit certain things, and that's really all that happens.
There are some innovations in terms of moderators, auto moderators guaranteeing that people don't violate particular rules of the site but ultimately, no innovation is necessary and no innovation is is occurring in the status quo so subsidies will not harm anyone.
In terms of capture, because wikipedia depends on individuals unaffiliated with the government adding their own thoughts to the issue, it is unlikely that capture could ever occur.
Furthermore, when there's a coalition of governments paying for wikipedia, there's unlikely for any single government to be able to leverage power against wikipedia also just because if a state stops paying for wikipedia, the increase in the cost to other states will ultimately be negligible.
My second argument is about the value of this information.
First, on in terms of poverty.
In the past individuals from wealthy families were able to read encyclopedias to learn about the world and generally had an inequality of information that benefited them throughout their entire life.
Now, individuals in poverty can access wikipedia at literally no cost.
This reduces the total barrier and the total gap between the wealthiest and the poorest in our society guaranteeing that the poor can make truthful and fair actions and decisions based on this information.
The market depends on individuals understanding how the world works.
Politics depends on people understanding what the truth is.
So generally wikipedia is good for all individuals.
Brings me to my second point why the value of information is generally good just in terms of people being able to access it.
When people can look up questions that they have they are more engaged with the world and generally feel more engaged with education.
This improves all situations for all people.
For this reason, we should subsidize wikipedia.