I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should abolish the american jobs act.
The american jobs act is a lot like what it sounds.
It gives people a lot of jobs.
It revamps our economy and makes the entirety of our system more efficient.
The one thing my opponent leaves out when analyzing the american jobs act is that it also puts a huge amount of money into our crumbling infrastructure.
It's largely unclear why my opponent is against lots more jobs and a far more effective system of infrastructure, where we don't damage cars or we don't decrease people's commute speeds and, ultimately, make the whole of america a safer place.
With that mind, I have two arguments but, first, some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that this entire thing is too expensive, that the result of this sort of policy is we really tax people way too much, people can't afford this taxes and, as such, they vote in a way that's not in their self-interest.
A lot of responses: first, we think that if my opponent had read the bill, they'd understand that there's actually tax cuts in the bill.
Both corporate and individual tax cuts are laden within the bill and as such, it's not really too expensive.
We think that individuals will recoup a huge amount of their money as a result of this kind of policy and as such, they'll be able to fight whatever they want.
Second, though, we think that as you give people more jobs, you get more taxes.
That's where we get the big savings.
When you cut taxes on corporations, when you provide more jobs on the infrastructure level, we think that the result is you can tax these new jobs more and as such, have no real net loss.
My opponent then tries to impact this out two ways.
First, they say that people won't vote for good uses of their spending, they'll vote for bad uses of their spending now.
It's largely unclear why the american jobs act makes people unable to understand what good spending is.
We think that people are unlikely to vote for bad spending, that is to say, spending against their self-interest that does not empower them, because they know that money is being wasted.
However, we think things like welfare and schools will become even more popular as people will understand that the best way to actually get an education for future generations, to avoid having huge bailouts, is to actually use their money effectively.
My point needs to demonstrate why the american jobs act makes people less intelligent and makes it impossible for them to vote in their self-interest.
The final argument my opponent makes is that this doesn't solve the homelessness problem or reproductive rights or a litany of other problems that they recognize.
The problem is we never claimed to solve reproduction reproductive rights.
We never claimed that we're pro-choice or pro-life, nor did we claim to solve homelessness.
No bill is a silver bullet that will solve all of america's woes, but the american jobs act will help a lot of people out, which brings me to my two arguments: first is infrastructure.
US bridges are crumbling.
US roads are horrific.
The result is massive costs that go that come as a result of increased transit times to work, destruction of cars and vehicles that go over these roads and, ultimately, the catastrophic payments that have to come as a result of crumbling bridges, crumbling overpasses and, ultimately, the damage that causes.
We think that investing in infrastructure now saves a huge amount of money in the long term, while saving a massive amount of lives.
Second, though, we think employment's incredibly important.
When people don't have jobs, they are far more likely to turn to crime, or drugs, or any other problematic avenue in which they can fill their time.
The result then is when you don't have these sort of jobs, we see an increase in crime.
We see that people are more violent.
We see that the entirety of our system becomes worse.
They also don't pay taxes on the income they make at this point and as such, we get less tax revenue as a whole.
For this reason, we should not abolish the american jobs act.