We should disband nasa.
Although I will sing the praises of nasa throughout my entire life, their hegemony in the space industry has ended.
Nasa was essential when the market could not create rockets or create other goods which would send humans into space.
However, in the modern day, nasa is no longer necessary.
Not only is it not necessary, but it crowds out other private investment which would otherwise improve our space system in a very substantial way.
It has been proven by corporations such as space_x and mining corporations that space development is both profitable and popular in the status quo.
As such, we would support the following model: that nasa is immediately disbanded, that all individuals who worked on nasa be given some sort of initial compensation, and that all data which nasa created be released to the public.
There will be a subsidy for the production of goods which can be used for space travel and space development, and when individuals utilize that subsidy, they will be unable to get patents on technology which would otherwise be used to improve the quality of life of all people.
With that in mind, we have two arguments: first, on market effects.
We think that nasa crowds out private investment.
Yes, space_x can exist.
Yes, a few other private space corporations have sprung up, but we think that nasa largely depresses this industry for a few reasons.
First, nasa is essentially working with no cost at all.
Every single cost from nasa is internalized by the public.
Every single dollar they spend is does not come out of their budget, but comes out of tax dollars put in place by congress.
This means that every corporation who competes against them must spend their income on actually producing these sort of rockets, while nasa can produce them at effectively no cost.
This is incredibly problematic as nasa will always be a couple steps ahead of private corporations, as these private corporations cannot get private investment.
We think that they can that these private corporations can shoot ahead if the private industry is able to get involved, but no investor wants to take the risk in investing in a private corporation where the government has previously had a monopoly.
We believe that if nasa pulls back, private investors can push into this market increasing the total amount of competition and increasing the amount of money that goes into this market, creating a new system where these corporations can spend money at a far greater amount than nasa has in the status quo.
The second problematic market effect is simply that nasa is less effective than private corporations.
They cannot get as far, they do not have as much ingenuity, they don't have the as large of a budget as much of these corporations and as such, they will never produce products that are quite as good as things like space_x.
The third problem is the idea of brain drain.
We think that nasa attracts some of the most intelligent people in our nation.
Unfortunately, congress has given them a tiny, tiny budget and very few resources, which means that smart people are sitting around trying to make rockets out of terrible materials and necessarily decreasing the goals of our space program.
We believe that if nasa dispands, these individuals can go to private corporations where they will find greater support and greater pools of money to create effective rockets and necessarily travel and development.
My second argument is on the role of government.
We believe that government must represent the democratic will of the people.
Unfortunately, nasa is not that popular in the status quo.
Yes, individuals like nasa in theory, but every time you ask should we be spending more on space exploration, they will say no.
The problems in our country right now mean that the government should not be funding a program which many individuals find unpopular.
As such, we believe nasa should be disbanded simply to reflect the will of the people.
Refusal to do so would create make an unjust government, which is necessarily violating its democratic obligations.
As such, we should disband nasa.