I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should raise the corporate tax.
What's really important here is that anytime that we raise taxes on corporations, it's ultimately a tax on the consumer cause at the end of the day, if you charge corporations, say, ten percent of their profits each season, they're gonna charge ten percent more of the average person in order to recoup their profits.
This will drive down demand and ultimately make the economy worse for everyone.
With that in mind, I have two arguments, but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent talks about how this is a massive wealth disparity as a result of a failure to have these kind of taxes.
He says that raising the corporate tax will allow for paying for things like welfare and expanding individuals capacity to be effective.
A few responses: first, we think that this will ultimately be worse for the poor.
If you raise corporate taxes on things like tyson, on chiquita, vegetation, fruits, vegetables, meat, all become far more expensive.
This means that food prices for the poor rocket up.
The same is true for shell or really any other corporation.
When the price of goods increases by a substantial margin, it's awful for the poor.
These are the people who starve first.
These the people who have no ability to actually fend for themselves because their jobs are not paying them effectively.
This brings me to my first point about jobs.
We think that when you raise the corporate tax, the response is that demand goes down.
This is because the price of goods go up.
But when demand goes down, there's also less of a need for a huge supply, the result of it in increased corporate taxes.
First, you fire individuals.
You can't afford to have as many workers.
Second, you increase the price of goods in order to recoup the costs, and you can increase the price of goods because you can no longer meet the demand of the previous amount that you were offering at at the previous price point.
That is to say, at one dollar, if you sold a hundred different of your goods, we think that at two dollars you can far less, which means you need to produce less, which means you need less workers.
Ultimately, this means that the poor lose their job, they can't afford anything, and wealth disparity increases by a massive amount.
The next thing my opponent says is that it's easier to cut the higher up individuals, but this is false false as well.
We think that it's true that cutting the wage of the average worker is difficult, because they can go to a different place and just find a job that pays just as well, but when you increase the corporate tax across the board, the result is one in which all workers, all jobs, become less effective and pay less money.
This means that individuals have no real opportunity cost of staying at their jobs.
If they jump ship, they don't actually get paid any more.
As such, you're likely to see a lot of jobs pay less money, while other jobs get cut.
Finally, my opponent says that the result of this is that you can have much more public employment, that this will increase the total amount of jobs.
This just isn't true and is ultimately bad.
We think that a lot of the time this is going to go to the military in building more jets.
This means that, sure, some programs at a defense contractor might become more might get more money, might become more active, but doesn't actually give jobs to the poorest individuals.
Additionally, we think it's bad to put all of your eggs in one basket, especially the government, because if there's ever a downturn, huge numbers of people will lose their jobs, and the government's not a very effective actor at mitigating that kind of risk.
My final argument is about competitiveness.
We think if you increase corporate taxes, the global competitiveness of US goods decreases by a massive amount.
This further decreases demand, which has the cyclical effect which I discussed earlier, which ultimately trickles down to the poor and makes them lose their job and their savings.
For this reason, we should not raise the corporate tax.