I stand in firm opposition to the motion casinos should be banned.
What my opponent really misses in this debate is that there are a lot of problematic things in our society but going around trying to ban every single one actually does far more harm than good.
Besides the inherent moral harms, we think that there are a variety of economic and social harms that come as a result of individuals trying to regulate every tiny part of the economy particularly the morals of our society.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent only makes one argument in this entire debate.
It stems around morals, it stems around the idea that casinos are simply unfair.
He says that gambling is rigged.
Two main responses: one, it's really just not.
We think that things like slot machines do have a predetermined number of winners per hour, predetermined number of winners per day but there's still a certain amount of randomness that comes from the slot machine.
We think that every single pull could potentially be a winner.
Sure, if you sit there and spend every single dollar that you have, you're likely to lose money and you're unlikely to get a huge payout.
This is by design.
We don't think this is problematic.
This leads me to my second main response.
Every single kind of gambling is rigged or unfair by my opponent's definition.
Things like craps, things like blackjack, poker are random you don't know what the card's going to be.
The house does not stack the deck.
It's just when you might win say a ratio of three halves to what you paid in and the house wins double what they paid in, or at least all that you essentially put in in the first place, we think that the general result is that they will make more money in the long term but this is true of literally every kind of gambling.
My opponent himself says that he will not ban every single type of gambling so he accepts that in many cases it's just.
Now if you have, for instance, a basketball game where there's a fifty fifty percent chance of either team winning, we don't think that the broker is going to give you one to one odds as I say he's not going to make it so every dollar you pay in is a dollar out which would ultimately be the fair thing for that sort of game.
No instead you're likely to get what you paid in plus maybe eighty percent as on top of that.
This means that no matter what happens, the broker makes money.
This is true in literally any kind of gambling.
We think that this is the result of the fact that brokers need to make money.
They're not just gamblers like everybody else and as such, we think that gambling really isn't rigged or at the very least it's not more rigged than other forms of gambling which my opponent is apparently okay with.
My first argument then is that of freedom.
We think that individuals should have the right first to spend money how they see fit.
This includes individuals who are building businesses and includes individuals who are trying to entertain themselves.
For a lot of people we think that gambling is a major way in which they can get entertainment, they can be happy, they can have some fun.
Sure, gambling problems exist but alcoholism exists, smoking addiction insists.
This isn't a reason to ban them.
Each outright as such, we think that this freedom is incredibly important to actually allow individuals to self-actualize and prevent tyranny on behalf of government.
My second argument is just practicality.
Think back to the example I gave about alcohol and cigarettes.
Every time we've tried to outright ban a particular item it goes underground.
Sure we don't ban things like like betting on sports games but we think that other more pernicious forms of gambling will likely take the place of casinos.
This includes things like cockfights.
This includes things like dogfights.
We think individuals will try to get their kicks however they see fit, however they can find gambling.
This will introduce more illicit, illegal and problematic gambling into our society.
For this reason, casinos should not be banned.