We should disband asean.
So, asean is essentially a southeast asian political and economic organization.
It has ten member states, all of whom have similar economies, have differing cultures but somewhat similar political environments, and all of which engage economically and politically with this organization to create a collective action which can essentially force foreign states to either trade a certain way or engage politically a particular way.
We think it largely breeds conflict and decreases the accountability for each state involved and, as such, we would support the following model: that asean be immediately disbanded and that every member state just goes back to being its own sovereign member.
Particular treaties signed through the organization can be reaffirmed by individual states, but we think the organization, as a whole, should be disbanded.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on geopolitical conflict.
We don't think the countries within this organization are likely to have much conflict on either side of the house.
There's really no benefit in a ground war in the modern day.
The system of alliances and the profound asymmetries of power between wealthier states and poorer states mean that if a conflict ever arises between individual southeast asian states, we think that the united states, russia, china will all have a stake in the matter and will largely make both countries unhappy at the end of the day.
Additionally, there's no political benefit as politicians who go to war are generally seen as less favorable and, as such, lose the election.
However, we think that asean threatens china.
Why is this the case?
China wants to spread throughout the asian community, essentially increasing its political and social capital, in order to trade more effectively and create common trading blocs.
However, asean is essentially against china in many ways.
It has spoken out against china's hegemonic presence and in doing so, it has threatened china.
China is not a country to take these sort of threats idly and, as such, we think that the asymmetry we talked about earlier, that is to say, wealthier, more technologically advanced states opposing and oppressing smaller states is considerably more likely as long as this organization exists.
My second argument is that this organization leads to ignored abuses.
Recognize that two states in asean are currently having considerable amounts of internal conflict.
Myanmar has engaged in the genocide of the rohingya people for far too long.
Any amount of time would be too long and yet, it has gone on for years and years now.
Additionally, the philippines has elected a leader who is willing to massacre individuals who he thinks deserve it and largely makes fun of any political opponents, in doing so oppressing many individuals and destroying the democratic processes of the country.
We think that regional actors are usually the best for checking human rights abuses as they're likely to be able to engage with the local population, work with them effectively to change their opinions, and are not seen as foreign invaders.
And yet asean, by linking each of their economies and political organizations, makes it so this sort of intervention is considerably less profitable and considerably less incentivized.
We think this expands genocide and expands political disenfranchisement within member states.
My third and final argument is about economic fragility.
Each country within asean has a similar economy vis-a-vis agriculture, fishing, and even technological development.
We think that the low capital development in within these states means that foreign direct investment is fairly easy.
However, instituting a trade bloc which imposes internal barriers to trade, imposes tariffs, means that FDI, foreign direct investment, is likely to decrease and, as such, each member state is unlikely to develop as quickly.
For this reason, we should disband asean.