We should abolish trade barriers.
Trade barriers are artificial barriers that prevent individual countries an individual companies from competing with local markets.
They're largely irrational, given that if a foreign company can do something cheaper at the same quality, it's incredibly unclear why it should be prevented from doing so.
If they can't do things as cheaply or if they can't do things at the same quality, it's largely unclear why we need barriers in the first place.
Each time barriers are introduced we short change citizens for a small minority of the population.
By preventing individuals from importing steel we might save tens of thousands of jobs, however we cost every single person in the country every time they want to build a house, using rebar, every time they want to build a car or buy a car, using steel parts.
We think that these sort of trade barriers largely hurt our economy and largely hurt our citizens.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that all non retaliatory trade barriers should be abolished.
We think trade barriers can still be put in place if trade barriers are put on us.
For instance when the united states put a tariff on steel in the mid two thousands japan responded by putting a tariff on harley davidson motorcycles.
This was justified because it was a barrier with the expressed purpose of destroying other barriers.
All barriers with the expressed purpose of protecting local industry should be abolished.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea: first off on cheaper goods.
I alluded to this in my introduction but we believe that cheaper goods largely outweigh some jobs.
Why is the case?
First we think each country has a comparative advantage.
What does this mean?
The united states can probably produce all agriculture, all material goods, all domestic products, far cheaper than any developing state.
This is because we have a higher skilled workforce, higher access to technology, and largely the ability to retrain our work force very easily.
However, comparative advantage says that we shouldn't try to build everything.
The reason why is the case is if we can build things using skilled RND more efficiently on a comparative level than india could say produce raw materials, it's clear that india should produce materials, specializing, and we should specialize in our high skilled labor.
This improves the total output on a world level by ensuring that each individual country does that they do best and countries that can produce comparatively better, produce what they can do comparatively better.
Additionally we think that countries that have high skilled labor like the united states are largely able to retrain their workers.
This means that lost jobs are temporary.
They're only a small period in time until these workers can go to another industry which was untouched as trade barriers were abolished.
On the flip side of this though, we think that you get massive benefits as a result of abolishing trade barriers.
The reason why this is the case is: making all products cheaper is a good thing.
Either products are naturally cheaper and we should always rely on foreign producers to provide them for us because it won't happen indefinitely, or they're artificially cheaper through subsidies or through attempts to really lower the price.
In this case we're just letting foreign governments subsidize their own goods which is the best of all possible worlds.
My second arguments about cooperation.
As trade expands war becomes less likely.
The democratic peace theory of trade states that states that trade with one another have very little incentive to go to war.
Losing their trade relationship is bad for the politician individually as prices will go up for them, they're likely to just lose a lot of industry support, but also bad insofar as war is seen as problematic when it's from people who we formally considered our allies, which trade sort of paints them in that light.
As a result it is incredibly clear that we should abolish trade barriers.