I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should introduce recall elections.
Allowing politicians some level of autonomy usually it turns out for the better.
There's a reason that in obama's first term he was considered somewhat a lame duck president but in his second term, when he was not constantly under the fear that he would not be able to get back into office, he was actually one of the best presidents in history.
Quite simply, forcing individuals to go through recall elections, or at the very least holding this threat above them at all times, decreases the efficacy of politicians while also decreasing their passion and pursuit of effective policy.
I have two arguments, but first an overview: my opponent suggests that this checks tyranny, that this would check people like trump.
First, checks already exist.
The reason trump is causing so much trouble in the united states is that a massive portion of the population was fed up with the political establishment.
They voted in a bunch of very, very right wing politicians to all branches of government and as such trump has free reign.
It is not as though trump convinced a short a massive number of people in a short time frame to vote for him, the seeds of this opinion and particular kind of political rebellion have existed for the last thirty years and are now simply coming to fruition.
What we mean by this is that the checks already exist as long as it is it is not a societal issue and when it is a societal issue than there's no effective way to check it, just like with trump.
Trump would not be recalled in the the current day.
People prefer the devil they know rather than the devil they don't know.
The only way to check this particular kind of action is to have politicians in other elected positions where they can check problematic politicians.
And my first argument is that campaigning is wasted time.
When individuals always have a recall election over their head, they will can't constantly campaign.
They will try to get more money and fundraise, they will try to put on more ads to prove that they're a good politician.
However, campaigning time is wasted time.
At the end of many president's first term, when they need to campaign in their own favor and in the favor of a variety of politicians facing reelection, they get very, very little done.
Having recall elections where they must constantly justify their own existence, even to just get a avoid the threat of a recall election, means that they will never be able to get effective policy on the floor.
This is incredibly problematic cause because we think when politicians can truly act in the public's interest without having to be worried about constantly being recalled, that is when they are most effective.
Additionally, recall elections can be used as a political tool.
We think that with enough political power any recall election could be triggered for any president for any political office.
As such you can constantly keep your opponent fighting against recall simply because you want to, simply because you have enough money.
This is incredibly problematic as it will slow down the already slow bureaucracy that we have and make policy making far less likely.
Now my second argument is that this will decrease action on behalf of politicians in a way unique from my first argument.
What we mean by this is that inaction is far less likely to get you recalled than action.
You're never blamed for tax policies which already exist.
However if you raise taxes or decrease taxes while also cutting social programs, you will be blamed by angry parties.
The only way that politicians can ensure they will not face recall is through symbolic action which has no effect on policy and by refusing to make any controversial decisions.
Raising taxes is always unpopular, cutting social programs is always unpopular, but we cannot simply borrow into oblivion.
The if we constantly threaten politicians with recall elections they will become catatonic and the whole of our government will shut down.
As such we should not introduce recall elections.