I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should fight for tibetan independence.
Because tibetan independence is a fight truly unfamiliar to many americans, any actions taken by western activists represent a gross overstep of their role in the international community, a waste of valuable time and focus, and a re engagement into a conflict which is dying down now.
Although china has acted oppressively towards tibet in the past, is unclear why western activists, who have a huge amount on their plate, should simply intervene in a conflict they know very little about.
Three arguments for why we should not fight for tibetan independence: first is the role of the west.
It is only just for western activists to take action or fight for a particular cause if the victims of that cause support their intervention.
In syria, when the people of syria support western intervention, it is just to take action.
However, in tibet, where there is very little support for western actors, it is unclear why activists trying to push their government to take particular action should actually intervene in this conflict.
They do not know the ultimate results of their action as they are largely unfamiliar with the conflict.
If they push for things like sanctions, if they push for things like tibet tibetan people to take a more active and confrontational role with the chinese government, the likely outcome is both a sanctioning of US products and greater oppression in tibet.
Although it is nice to live in an ideal land where activists can change the world on a whim, the ultimate result of these particular kinds of actions, particularly against a huge and powerful state like china, is greater oppression both in the west and in tibet.
Furthermore, when western states have caused the a huge amount of the harm around the world, it's unclear why they should go back in and simply make things worse.
China and tibet have a huge amount of conflict, in large part, because of british intervention and because of particular repression in regards to religion.
The US stepping into this conflict at this point in time simply reinflame these colonialist actions and colonialist ties which we think are fundamentally unjust.
And our second argument is the idea of focus.
Although drew likes to tell you that western activists must focus on everything to be efficacious, the opposite is true.
If an activist for palestine is also focusing on tibet, venezuela, a variety of states throughout africa, asia, south america, even US states, the ultimate result is no efficacy at all.
The civil rights movement was effective because millions of african americans in the united states all had the same message: give us the right to vote, stop putting us in ghettos, provide us with ample education and protection from unjust policies.
However, if activists are fighting one hundred battles at once against a variety of oppressive and powerful governments, the result is that none of these conflicts will be fixed.
If we want to support people in palestine, support people in palestine.
If we want to support people in other places, support them there.
But when tibet is already in a issue with very little focus, asking activists to put this on their plate and demanding ideological purity from them will ultimately lead to a less efficacious activist base in america.
My third argument is that peace is key.
In the status quo, there's little oppression currently occurring in tibet, and reigniting this conflict in any way, shape or form will only make lives worse and repression worse.
The efforts of US activists will never outweigh the power of china, particularly due to proximity and as such, they should simply stay away from this conflict and that we should not fight for tibetan independence.