I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should subsidize primary care.
Primary care consists of basic care that you get from your doctor in order to prevent disease or to treat small injuries, essentially, everything outside of urgent and emergency care.
It's the basic every day-to-day care that the usual individual needs, but subsidizing primary care does very little in actually helping people access primary care.
In most places in most parts of the world, it would actually make accessing primary care far more difficult.
We think that this money would not be put to good use and it would make health care less accessible so, ultimately, there's no real reason to do it.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first is that subsidizing primary care is regressive.
So let's talk about how it affects the consumer.
We think that for a lot of individuals, subsidizing primary care won't allow them to access it any easier.
The average person who lives in abject poverty, someone who's homeless, anyone in extreme poverty hasn't really gone to the doctor in a long time, at least the average person hasn't.
Doctors visits are expensive and even with subsidization, the chance that there's no real reason to go to the doctor means that it's not worth any amount of money to people who really don't have money to spare.
However, we think that the middle class and upper classes might get some benefit from this, but it's really not going to be incredibly meaningful for them either.
Instead, we think that subsidizing primary care will help two groups of people: first off is doctors.
Now, even in areas where doctors are paid the absolute minimum, doctors are still some of the highest paid people in our society.
Although medical school debt can be quite expensive, the average doctor, at least into their thirties and forties, really doesn't have any debt to carry and is making profound, massive profits as a result of their expertise.
By subsidizing primary care, we're likely to see them getting bonuses, likely to see them getting more money.
It may even push people outside the more specialized care, things like anesthesia, things like surgery, emergency care procedures, instead moving towards primary care, because there's more money there.
We don't really need more primary care doctors.
A single primary care doctor can treat a huge number of people compared to the average anesthesiologist or surgeon who, yes, they can treat many people, but if there's ever an overflow, there's ever too many people for someone to actually treat, those individuals could easily die, while with primary care, they just have to wait another day, another week to actually see a doctor.
The second group of people we think this will benefit massively are those who own hospitals and those in the healthcare industry.
These are also incredibly wealthy people.
When I say people in the healthcare industry, I don't mean the janitors, I don't even mean the nurses.
I mean the uber-wealthy who own hospitals, own insurance companies are likely to see more money in their paycheck.
Ultimately, it's unfair to take money from the average citizen and give it to these people.
My second argument as about a bandaid solution.
Now if we were to subsidize primary care in the US, we'd likely see politicians pushing against important policy, like single-payer healthcare or like a variety of other forms of alternative payment methods that allow more people to actually access healthcare in the first place.
By subsidizing primary care, we take money and political capital away from vitally important causes and put it towards one that really just doesn't matter very much.
We think that this tax money could be better spent.
We think that the healthcare system could be reformed in a meaningful way.
Instead, this will entrench a system which is already problematic and give money to the wealthiest people in our society.
For this reason, we should not subsidize primary care.