We should protect edward snowden.
Edward snowden may not have been the brightest individual.
Taking on the united states government is not the wisest thing to do.
However, he put his own morality above his own safety.
He revealed that the NSA has been using incredibly problematic tools to violate our privacy, and he revealed that the NSA actively develops hacking tools, vulnerability tools, which also contribute to large-scale cyber attacks, both by state and non-state actors.
Because we think that edward snowden acted efficaciously, ethically, and within our bounds of justice, we would say that edward snowden should be protected.
Our model for today's debate is fairly simple.
We would say that the united states federal government should drop their charges against edward snowden.
He will have the autonomy to do whatever he wants afterwards.
He can come to the united states if he wants but this, we believe, will be enough for the US to protect edward snowden and guarantee he is not put in jail for this crime.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on the importance of whistleblowing.
Whistleblowing has two clear effects, accountability and deterrence.
For accountability, we think that individuals can only engage politically, can only engage in the market if they understand what they are actually voting for, whether it's with their ballot or their wallet.
If I don't understand that a politician has been contributing to global warming massively, I simply do not know how I'm going to vote effectively.
Additionally, if I don't know that my government has been spying on me, I don't know that my government continuously uses the NSA to read our private messages, to violate our individual sovereignty and rights, then I cannot effectively lobby my government to change these problematic policies.
Additionally, though, we think that this creates a deterrent effect when whistleblowers exist.
If individuals know they'll be caught, if they know that the result of their action will be that they have more harm than the good that they got of the action itself, they will not take that action in the first place.
Whistleblowing create this deterrence effect cause it ensures that if individuals are caught doing something bad, they will be harmed and it massively increases the likelihood that they will be caught, in the first place.
To that end, edward snowden should be protected as a whistleblower and under the general principle that whistleblowers are doing something valuable.
But my second argument is about procedural justice, because we don't think that edward snowden did anything which would warrant the efforts that the united states has taken against him.
Edward snowden did reveal classified information.
He did violate the terms of his contract, but he himself was revealing information which was illegal.
He further utilized the new york times and currently existing whistleblowing laws to ensure that he was not actively releasing information which could be harmful to the united states.
And yet, the united states has pursued him tooth and nail.
They have attempted with all of their might to to harm edward snowden.
We believe that this is a violation of procedural justice.
Governments can only be just, the criminal justice system can only be meaningful, if they follow their own laws and principles.
Yes, edward snowden deserves a small punishment for breaking his contract.
However, his punishment should be time served overseas, being forced out of the country and forced away from his family.
At this point, any further violence or, whether its state violence or individual violence, against edward snowden would be a violation of our procedural justice and fundamentally unethical.
As such, we should protect edward snowden by dropping his charges.