We should subsidize journalism.
Journalism is an important tool for protecting our political system and ensuring that corporations do not abuse the common people.
Because we think that journalism is an essential tool within our democracy, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government subsidize journalistic organizations.
We think that journalism organizations will be paid based on two criteria, the number of individuals they employ and the size of their consumer base.
We obviously will not pay the whole of a journalist's salary, we won't allow rent-seeking behavior to occur , however, we will we will allow these organizations to hire large numbers of journalists at fairly reduced costs as long as they are getting a fairly large viewership.
To define fairly large, we're not talking about the new york times here, we're talking about corporations that are smaller for the most part, things like the portland metro or the san francisco chronicle.
We would also be willing to subsidize the new york times.
We just want to say that the scope of this debate is fairly large.
My first argument is accountability.
The only way in which individuals can engage politically is if they know what the candidates stand for.
If a candidate has done a horrible thing, the voters must be able to understand it in order to vote someone else into office.
Even if they haven't done horrible things, without understanding who you're voting for and what they effectively stand for, you have no political power.
Your vote essentially becomes a coin flip.
It becomes simply what the media can tell you without actually engaging with the truth.
This is also true with the market.
We think that if certain corporations are acting horrifically, the consumers should know in order to vote with their wallet.
We see this continuously in rhetoric from both democrats and republicans.
We are told that we must be socially conscious consumers.
However, without a strong base of journalism, this is impossible.
Now my second argument is that this is a deterrent to problematic action.
We think that individuals who know that there're huge numbers of journalists out there who are consistently looking for a story in order to get a larger viewer base are unlikely to do problematic things.
If they know that their vile actions will be revealed to the public, they simply will not do them.
It will harm them politically or it will harm them economically but either way, we will prevent these actions from occurring in the first place, preventing the harm from occurring at all.
My third argument is that this removes bias.
We think that governments may introduce some bias.
We're going to fund all organizations to a similar extent, so were unlikely to see any kind of bias or any change in the sort of stories that they publish.
However, we will remove corporate bias because in the status quo, we see that corporations have huge amounts of power over these news organizations.
When we remove the requirement that these organizations look for ad revenue, they can publish more critical pieces and be more effective as tools for journalism and in informing the population.
For this reason, we should subsidize journalism.