We should prohibit pipeline transportation.
Pipelines are the primary way in which destructive chemicals and gasoline and various oils are transported from the harvesting area to the area where they're actually used.
Most of the time of the chemicals and oil that are transported this way are spilled out into the environment or simply used which also contributes to environmental degradation.
For this reason we think that pipeline transportation must end.
It creates far too many easy ways to access harmful things and ultimately puts power in the hands of individuals who do not respect the government and do not respect the people.
To that end I have three arguments, first is about government capture.
We think that there is a massive issue in the status quo where oil companies and chemical companies have been able to capture particular government organizations.
With a nomination and now resignation of scott pruitt, we saw that the oil industry was able to capture the EPA.
The mass amount of money that they have was funneled into the election, allowed them to control vital parts of our government which are supposed to regulate those same industries.
As a result, these industries have essentially no regulation.
We think that the primary cause of this kind of power and of this kind of capture is the fact that these companies have so much money and so much power.
Because there are are no small subsidiaries or local companies with which to supply chemicals or supply of oil because pipeline transportation can do it far more easily over long distances, we think that you have large mega corporations who make huge amounts of money and then control the government.
The result of this is first, no ability to hold these companies accountable.
Any company, whether it's a sports goods store or whether it's a restaurant or whether it's an oil company, will act ethically if profits suggest they should not do so and there is no accountability.
Every single company is existing in competition, it must beat other firms and so if there's no meaningful way to hold them accountable they will not act morally.
As such, the ultimate result of government capture is a massive amount of immoral companies acting even more immorally to destroy their environment and harm citizens as a whole.
Additionally we think that we reduce the accountability of government completely when have government capture.
When we have an individual who is existing in a system of patronage, they're far more likely to see no issue with other corruption in government.
This entire system must be overturned, must be undone, which can be done in part by prohibiting pipeline transportation.
This leads me to my second argument, global warming.
By prohibiting pipeline transportation, the immediate effect is that oil prices will increase.
As such individuals will drive less.
We think that driving is a major contributor to global warming in the status quo.
It creates massive amounts of carbon which is a greenhouse gas which ultimately warms our environment, warms our earth, and destroys the polar ice caps.
We think that global warming is horrifically dangerous.
Even a few degree increase in the ocean temperature could lead to massive losses in biodiversity and total biomass.
As such, driving up the price of gas is ultimately a good for all people as we will reduce the amount of driving and gas consumption that occurs.
My final argument is about environmental quality.
We first think that gas is a horrible thing for our environment.
It leads to smog, asthma, a variety of harmful things to our community, but pipelines are uniquely bad themselves.
They regularly have leaks, go through aquifers and ground water storage, and as such can lead to disease as they spill oil into local communities.
Ultimately they are unregulated, unsafe, and destroy our environment.
For this reason, we should prohibit pipeline transportation.