I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should fight nationalism.
Because nationalism as an ideology is not inherently toxic, the examples brought up by my opponent simply represent the worst forms of nationalism.
We can bring up a variety of examples about egalitarianism, nihilism, but really any form of political or social interaction and expression can be shown to have problematic examples.
Instead of doing this and having a an example war, I would simply like to engage with the basis of a variety of philosophies and show why fighting nationalism is ultimately a self-defeating goal which harms a variety of individuals, rather than helping them as nationalism does.
First argument is that we can only critique the state with nationalism.
The belief that the state ought to be good, the belief that there are certain guiding principles that we are inherently devoted to and ought to have pride in is why we can critique corrupt politicians, why we can critique this fall of our nation in certain regards.
When we see that a certain politician is fighting for a subsect of the of the nation rather the nation as a whole, we can accuse them of not fighting for the concepts of freedom, equality and true independence from outside actors.
Furthermore, when we see police take unjust actions against particular minorities, we can say that they're not fighting for the sort of equality lay down on the basis of our nation.
Without the inherent pride and without the need for the state to represent the pride which we feel towards the state, we cannot critique it in a meaningful way.
We will allow the state to get away with abuses if we simply engage with the state in a way which we say that it was truly only based on utility rather than based on some ethereal idea which stems from nationalism.
My second argument is the idea of community productivity.
When you feel pride in your state, you're far more likely to solve collective action problems.
When there's something like a pothole in the road, you feel that this is that is an insult to your community, and as such you're more likely to fix it.
When you see a certain part of town start to come under hard times, or even a certain neighbor come under hard times, you say, " hmm, this is not the state failing.
This is where I need to step in, because we are both part of the same community which I have pride in. "
And as such, you are far more likely to help one another or help another community.
In a state where there is no nationalism, it is likely that the powerful will maintain their power in any way, shape or form.
If they feel faith in the state, if they think that their fellow countrymen also deserve power, that's when they're likely to adopt more just and equal policies which produce the most utile outcomes.
My third argument is that is just to support your community over people on the other side of the world.
Although my opponent claims that this is an arbitrary distinction, it really simply is not.
I feel more loyalty and I feel more support towards the people who supported me when I was young.
When the person on the street played with me, raised me, gave my family food when they needed it, that's when I feel the most obligation to help them.
In the same way, it is unclear why I have an obligation to someone on the other side of the world, who I don't know if they caused their own harms of the harms were caused upon them, compared to the people in my own communities whose needs and understandings I already appreciate and can fulfill.
My fourth and final argument is that there really isn't a just alternative.
Although my opponent would like to say egalitarian is a just and effective way to engage with the world, it is impossible to truly use your money efficaciously to help people in another state.
We lose huge amounts of money to middlemen and other individuals who are willing to take advantage of poor individuals when we give money to other states in things like foreign aid, and the alternative is far more likely to be a sort of community nihilism where individuals simply fight for their own good.
As such, we should not fight nationalism.
Thank you.