I stand in firm opposition of the motion, we should not subsidize undergraduate education.
In the modern day, undergraduate education is not just an option, it's a requirement to be an effective worker.
Ultimately, if someone wants to survive in the modern day, they can be born rich, get really lucky, or get a college education.
Unfortunately, the reality for most individuals is that if you weren't born rich, you're probably not gonna get a college education either.
And if you are, you're paying out of pocket, taking out huge loans, or working around the clock.
Either way, you're at a huge disadvantage going into the workforce.
We must subsidize undergraduate education in order to right these wrongs, create more fairness, and ultimately just improve our society.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first is reciprocal justice.
Individuals in poverty built this nation.
Individuals in poverty have worked to create almost everything we have, from my keyboard, computer, car, literally every item I own was either created solely by people in poverty, solely by those who are working class, or almost exclusively by people who are working class.
However, these people routinely have no access to education.
We keep them down in order to keep them in poverty, in order to keep them building our things.
This is fundamentally unfair and fundamentally unacceptable.
When deciding how to vote, when deciding whether or not to subsidize undergraduate education, it must be understood that fairness is a requirement for any just society.
If we were to outright throw away fairness in terms of efficiency, the vast majority of people would go to jail without a trial.
The vast majority of cases of violence by police would be ignored.
In many of these cases, this already happens, but this should not be the norm.
This is something that we should fight against.
Now we think that subsidizing undergraduate education benefits reciprocal justice by giving individuals in poverty access to college, giving them access to opportunities.
We owe them at least this much, to have the opportunity to pull themselves up by their bootstraps and get an education, to better themselves, better their children, and benefit future generations into time immemorial.
We think that accessing this sort of education will increase their potential earnings, will increase the options.
And, honestly, if they want to go back into manufacturing, if they want to go back into a working trade, it will allow them to better access more options or, at the very least, have the choice not to go into this in the first place.
Furthermore, we think that it'll be beneficial for the whole of society, as I'll discuss in my next argument.
Now we think that subsidizing undergraduate education is great for efficiency.
Each individual who doesn't have a degree is someone who's not really innovating.
Sure, they can innovate in a field that they're used to.
If someone grew up on a farm, they might have certain innovations regarding farm efficiency, but even if they do, without an undergraduate education, they're unlikely to be able to articulate those ideas, unlikely to be able to access funding, and unlikely to understand how to implement any ideas that they actually have.
We think that accessing an undergraduate education is far more likely to increase the total efficiency, research, and development, and just good for the world as a whole.
Furthermore, by subsidizing undergraduate education, we think that your average worker becomes more efficient, your average manager becomes more efficient.
Just people, in general, are more efficient as their morale increases, they don't have to pay as much into loans, and as they just know more about the world.
To this end, we should subsidize undergraduate education.