We should privatize postal services.
Throughout history, the postal service has been a force for good.
It has allowed people to send mail from one place to another, keeping up their correspondences and allowing them to really connect with people who are far away.
However, email was invented, planes were invented, the cost of shipping things has become cheaper.
The postal service guaranteed that any letter sent, whether it's from a city that's next to the delivery location of that letter or if it's from the tip of alaska to the bottom of florida, the postal cost will be the same, given the same weight.
This is simply not tenable at this time.
At this time, to send a letter that to someone who isn't too far away, you have to spend an incredibly large amount of money.
To send a letter to someone all the way across the country, it may be sort of cheap, but it's unclear why everyone else should have to subsidize those costs when you are trying to send something so far away.
The benefits gained from a letter are to the individual who send it and to the individual who receive it.
Subsidization should only be done when there's a societal benefit through these sort of benefits.
Given that email has allowed for almost all communication to be moved online, we don't think it's necessary to actually continue to subsidize the postal service.
As such, we would propose the following model: that the postal service continue to operate for the next six months but then shut down forever.
We think the UPS services, fedex, are far better equipped to actually cater to the whims of the public.
A few reasons why: first off is innovation.
Postal service is run by bureaucrats.
At the end of the day, the government controls it.
Even though the postmaster's there, even though there are lifelong postal workers who actually work there, we don't think there's a huge incentive to innovate.
Upward mobility is fairly lackluster.
And it's not about saving the postal service money, it's simply about working there the longest.
As such, we think that innovation does not occur at the postal service.
Free market is far better at approaching innovation because the owners of the of the company are trying to make as much money as possible.
Each time they have a major innovation, particularly when they can patent, they make a lot of money.
This means that were we to remove the government from the postal services, we're likely to see further investment into these services.
As such, we will see more innovation and the cost of letters will be cheaper than they ever were under the privatized market.
My second argument is about competition.
We think that the postal service pushes out local competition.
Although some national brands have risen up to question its authority, we think that local brands, other smaller companies, simply do not exist.
Post offices, though, are essentially a free market.
Nearly every single post office offers the exact same service.
If I go into a place with a box that is ten pounds, they'll quote me different prices, but what I actually get out of it is exactly the same.
As such, we think more competition in a free market always pushes the price closer to the equilibrium of supply and demand.
This will generally improve the price, make it so the government is not actually just setting the price for all other companies and, ultimately, improve the well-being of all people who engage in this market.
My third and final argument is that it's easier for taxpayers and that it alleviates a massive tax burden.
The postal service is hemorrhaging money.
As its services are less needed and as competition exists, it must continuously depend on the taxpayer to pay its deficits.
I don't mail anything.
I don't know anyone in my life who really continues to mail anything.
As such, it's incredibly unclear why we, as taxpayers, have to subsidize this and why private citizens don't have to pay for it themselves or, at least, not to have to pay for it in full themselves.
We think that it's fairly easy to ship this sort of mail, so the price increase that may occur due to a lack of subsidization is fairly minor and as such, the tax burden can simply fall or the the cost burden can simply fall on those engaged in the actual transaction.
For this reason, we should privatize postal services.