Assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.
Assisted suicide is ultimately suicide.
It is the taking of a life without fully being able to understand the ramifications of such action.
Even when there are incredible checks in place which guarantee that individuals without mental illnesses and who are simply, who are not simply depressed, are unable to access assisted suicide, we still think that it is problematic.
Even in cases of terminal patients, even when individuals have ruminated on the implications for a considerable amount of time, assisted suicide will fundamentally destroy their access to rights and pushes the barriers of consent far beyond what we should allow as a government.
To that end, we have two arguments for why assisted suicide should be should be a criminal offense in every single state.
First, on the limits of consent: no individual can see the future.
No one can understand when their suffering will or if they will be alleviated of the problems that currently are pushing them towards assisted suicide.
We believe that taking your own life is a horrible thing to do.
It doesn't make you a horrible person but, ultimately, in the grand scheme of things, the action itself is incredibly bad and should be avoided at all costs.
We believe that assisted suicide, the taking of someone else's life with their consent, is ultimately a harm to their future self.
Individuals are not necessarily continuous.
We exist each instant and are able to appreciate our world as we take in the stimuli at that moment.
However, assisted suicide or suicide at all ultimately destroys your future self.
It is ultimately revoking the consent of any future actions and any future thought to such an extent that individuals lose all rights.
This brings me to my second argument: why causing death is inherently unjust and should be avoided in any situation.
We believe that life is a fundamental right.
It is impossible to contract away fundamental rights.
We would say that someone who signed a contract that says, " I will never engage in political speech again.
I will never vote again.
I sign away my rights to ever have privacy, " would ultimately be absurd.
We would not allow that as a people or as a government.
However, allowing someone to have their life taken away is doing just that.
We believe that life is a facilitative right to political efficacy, to speech, to assembly, to engagement with the world.
However, allowing individuals to take that right away ultimately diminishes the value of human life in general.
Even if it's not the case that individuals should not be allowed to have assisted suicide, we think it's important for governments to signal that assisted suicide should not be an option.
When government wholeheartedly wholesale support suicide as a potential alleviation of suffering, we think that's when individuals start to take their lives with more regular occurrences.
That's when individuals feel even more abandoned, when the government is willing to put money into assisted suicide but not into mental health rehabilitation and support.
Because we think assisted suicide is inherently problematic but is especially problematic when recognized by governments, assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.