We should end cheerleading.
Cheerleading is ultimately a futile activity.
Although there's nothing inherently wrong with it, the culture which surrounds it and the fact that it is largely relegated to the sidelines cheering on other teams makes it an unnecessary activity.
Furthermore, it exploits individuals into taking part in the activity where they get very little recognition but a lot of harassment, due to the expectations of cheerleading in society.
Because we think this is inherently problematic and has no place in public the public sphere, we would support the following model: that all schools, k through 12, universities, and all sports teams should end their cheerleading program.
Individuals can still do dance, acrobatics, gymnastics.
If they truly want to continue the athletic portion of cheerleading they're completely free to do so.
All that we are attempting to end is the act of relegating them purely to the sidelines to cheer on other teams.
We have two arguments in today's debate.
First off on the individual and second on society.
We think that cheerleading harms individuals in three main ways: first off as their health.
A lot of the time there are expectations for individuals who are part of cheerleading squads to weigh very little so they can be thrown through the air, and there are a variety of beauty expectations as well, which are problematic.
These expectations come, as I've already stated, partly because of the pragmatic purposes, but also because they're they are pushed to lose weight simply because cheerleading is a largely vapid organization and activity.
The fact that individuals are pushed to lose weight is not inherently problematic but most of the time a lot of the time this can end up with individuals having eating disorders, or otherwise having a harder time going through life simply because of the expectations put upon them.
Furthermore this can harm their health because repeated landing on your feet after being high in the air, repeated jumps, repeated lifts, can harm your joints and bones leading to long term pain and uncomfortable movement in the later days.
The second way this is harmful for the individual is their compensation.
At the university and school level they obviously get no compensation, but cheerleaders who work for large teams, who come out at the half time, who are on the sidelines, mostly get very very little compensation.
Less compensation than minimum wage, because they're paid on a contract basis and paid in lump sums.
The final harm to the individual is the expectations put a lot upon them.
Much of the time these individuals are harassed by the sports teams which express toxic masculinity repeatedly, and essentially fetishize it in an attempt to get the players to be more passionate and to work harder.
Putting individuals into this sphere is inherently problematic and restricts their right to be unharassed in their in spheres which they find comfort in.
My second argument is that cheerleading pushes problematic norms on society.
Much, although cheerleading is not inherently done by women, it's not only done by women, there are a lot of gender norms around it.
Cheerleading is essentially beauty pageants.
Although in many cases the cheerleaders still do flips, jumps, are fairly athletic, most individuals in society judge them on their looks.
Judge them on their body which is inherently problematic.
If only because judging women on their body, essentially restricting them to an object, is bad for the women being objectified, we say that we should end cheerleading.
But we'd say it's even worse, because there's a spillover effect.
When individuals are taught that objectifying cheerleaders is acceptable, they also feel it is acceptable to objectify other women in their life.
As such, cheerleading is inherently problematic and we should end it.