I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon coal mining.
Coal mining is an incredibly important tool for the empowerment of particular communities and the powering of most of america.
Coal is an important institution that has allowed us to become a powerful nation.
It is a incredibly efficient and easily accessible form of energy which we think that we must protect in order to maintain coal communities and to allow individuals to utilize the resources we already have.
With this in mind, I have three arguments.
First, on how this destroys certain communities.
Whole communities are largely based around mines.
Minds are discovered and then restaurants, hotels, people move their.
The entire community is built around that mine.
Half the town will work at the mine and the other half will be serving the people who make money off of the mine.
This is incredibly important because if you get rid of the mine half of the people lose their jobs.
They then have the option to leave the town or turn to crime or compete for jobs with the other people there.
If they leave the town, then every other industry effectively loses profits because people are no longer patronizing their business.
If they turn to crime or just unemployed, the same sort of thing happens but the people there are further harmed given that they have less resources as welfare is paid out or if they are robbed.
The third option pits workers against each other, will flood the labor market depressing wages across the board.
This harms both coal workers and people who don't work in the mine as well.
At the end of the day, these communities are important.
They are based around these sort of areas that are generally impoverished because they are not paid as much as tech workers or social workers or anyone who's gotten a higher level degree and is working in a modern enterprise.
Not nevertheless, they still deserve protection.
Although many individuals would argue that they should be retrained or that they could easily be retrained, these people first don't want to be retrained and second we think that it is fallacious to say they have the money to afford this kind of training in the first place.
My second argument is that we've already done harm, we've already created these mines, we've already triggered all of the harm that my opponent argues about and about like cutting down trees or destroying the earth and as such, we should only capitalize on this.
We should continue to capitalize on this in an effective way.
What's incredibly important to note is that my opponent's arguments regarding how this hurts the earth have already been triggered.
They've already occurred.
If we stop now my opponent's arguments have already occurred and as such, we think that we will simply be causing harm with none of the benefits.
On a comparative level, my side increases the total amount of resources available to america, increases the total amount of jobs available improving the position of each individual worker and allows the US to maintain it's competitiveness as it sells coal at an international level.
It is incredibly clear then, we should capitalize upon this in order to empower both individual communities and our whole nation.
My third and final argument is about how good cheap energy is.
Cheap energy is effective in that it improves innovation, it makes it so people in poverty can afford to have their lights on, and just generally allows individuals to operate in an effective way.
Our modern society runs on electricity and as we create electricity through coal, it effectively runs on coal.
If we remove this, individuals will have to spend more money on energy decreasing the profit margins of corporations while also increasing the price of energy for all people.
Furthermore, we think that coal is simply an effective way to get cheap energy as it's incredibly energy efficient and we already have perfected the technology to extract it from the ground.
For this reason, we should not abandon coal mining.