We should abolish nuclear weapons.
Nuclear weapons are the ultimate weapon.
They are truly destructive beyond any human belief.
Statistics, observation, cannot truly allow individuals to comprehend the destruction and death caused by these sort of weapons.
Because we think they are fundamentally unethical and ultimately diminish the cooperation on the international sphere, we would say that nuclear weapons should be abolished.
We would also propose the following model: that all states agree to fully disarm.
We're going to caveat in this debate round that every single state truly disarms and no one, essentially, tries to sneak weapons through.
We want to have a debate about a world with nuclear weapons versus one without one.
My first argument is the effect on international relations of nuclear weapons.
There are a few things that occur when states gain nuclear weapons.
First, small states get dominated as they no longer have any military leverage.
If a state has had consistent violence between their neighbors, we think that if they obtain nuclear weapons, they're far more likely to use this increased leverage to block other states' trade, to essentially express their own will over the state over the state with which they are feuding with or having a conflict with.
This ultimately diminishes the self-determination rights of the citizens of other states and, ultimately, is undemocratic.
The international community has an obligation to fight against these kinds of actions.
Secondly, though, we think that instead of having war, which isn't the best thing, we now have proxy war.
When two large states with nuclear weapons want to harm each other instead of letting their soldiers fight it out, which is ultimately the prerogative of each government, they abuse smaller states and push them into proxy wars, which we think is fundamentally unjust.
When the united states uses middle eastern states to fight the soviet union, we think that they're abusing these middle eastern states completely.
When the USSR utilizes south american insurgent groups in order to create violence against the united states, they're abusing south americans.
When large states use small states as pawns, these small states lose out.
We think that this is truly a violation and an expression of domination which is fundamentally unethical.
Because we think that nuclear weapons ultimately create more violence on the international sphere, we should abolish them.
Most obvious response to this is that without nuclear weapons, we would have more ground wars, but this is simply not the case.
We have a variety of other forms of weaponry which will allow us to prevent ground wars from occurring.
No one wants to lose all their troops, no one wants to spend huge amounts of money to fight a ground war, and if the international community all agrees to fight for peace, then no individual state will have the ability to harm another state without they themselves incurring incredible amounts of damage.
My second argument is about unauthorized use.
I will concede this is incredibly unlikely.
However, when the result of unauthorized use is the potential extinction of humanity, even a small likelihood is enough for us to abolish nuclear weapons.
We think that mutually assured destruction guarantees that if a nuclear bomb goes off in one state, there's little reason not to launch other nukes in other places.
This means that if a rogue general or a terrorist organization gets a nuke, they can destroy a major city with it, and that city largely use their nuclear arsenal against another state, who they believe did it, which could potentially lead to the destruction of all humanity.
Even if humanity does not go extinct, we think that even one nuclear strike is enough to say they're unjust and unacceptable.
For this reason, we should abolish nuclear weapons.