We should ban gambling.
Gambling is a system in which large corporations prey upon individuals with genetic or social dispositions to addiction and abuse of substances.
Because gambling is an inherently problematic system which creates crime, creates destroys lives, and otherwise serves society in no meaningful way.
We would say that government ought ban gambling.
As a brief overview, I want to discuss what it is to just to ban particular things and when government should step in.
Most individuals agree that government should step in when there are third party harms to individual action.
This is true when the market can effectively decide if a particular institution is good or not.
However, the market cannot decide whether gambling is good.
Gambling will always use abusive and deceptive marketing in order to lure in young people and it will abuse substances and push problematic things on individuals who have addictions in order to keep them coming back time and time again.
As such, government is the only agent to determine to actually be able to remove gambling from society and as such, if gambling is seen as a net utile bad government ought step in in order to stop individuals from being harmed by it.
Two arguments today.
First, that gambling is structurally unjust and second that it is predatory.
All the casinos do is win.
They are money making machines.
The saying the house always wins isn't incorrect.
Take slot machines for example.
The vast majority of slot machines take in a particular amount of money and then pay out after they've already made a profit.
What we mean by this is after they get a thousand dollars in, they might give out a four hundred dollar jackpot in order to get more people to play the slot but recognizing that they will lose their money over time.
This isn't a luck game.
This is individuals throwing money away in the brief brief hope that they might be the individual who wins the jackpot.
However, if considering the casino versus society, the casino is simply making money for no good reason.
We would say that draining society in this way is fundamentally unjust and government ought step in to prevent it.
Additionally, the vast majority of casinos were created in order to drain communities.
What we mean by this is that they draw in other institutions which benefit them or destroy communities by destroying institutions that are important.
They destroy restaurants by providing restaurants in the house that are largely owned by corporations.
They destroy local businesses as they create crime in the area as individuals leave casinos drunk, high, or angry.
As such, casinos do little other than harm residential communities which need protection given that they have no recourse against the casino.
My second argument is that casinos are inherently predatory.
As I said before, casinos prey on children and individuals with addiction.
What we mean by this is the vast majority of casinos use advertising which would appeal to kids.
Flashing lights, games, food and fun, this is the kind of language that gets young individuals into casinos before they're ready or can understand the consequences of their actions.
As such, casinos are preying on a population which requires particular defense through government action.
What's even more problematic though is that government is allowing individuals to feed their addiction to gambling by going to these casinos.
Gambling addiction destroys thousands of lives a year.
It destroys marriages and destroys relationships the world over.
When government actively condones this particular action usually by funding the creation of casinos, it does little more then harm the individuals in our society who deserve our defense the most.
As such, we should ban gambling.