We should ban racial profiling.
Embedded in the constitutions of all western liberal democracies is the idea that all people are created equal and deserve equal rights before the law.
Racial profiling is a system based upon the abuse and oppression of particular minority groups simply because we are uncomfortable with their ethnicity.
It is not supported by statistics and generally it leads to more violence overall.
Because we think racial profiling is inherently illegitimate, inherently immoral, and ought be removed, we would say that we should ban racial profiling.
As a brief overview I want to address the obvious rebuttal to this case as a whole, the idea that you cannot legislate the opinions or biases of society.
While this is largely true, we think that we can create meaningful change.
This is unlikely to be the silver bullet to end racism or racial profiling around the world.
However, this policy will be incredibly effective at stopping edge cases and will also provide power, particularly legal power, to people of color who have faced racial profiling.
Even if cops refuse to change their attitudes and refuse to change how they act against these people, if people of color can sue the police or sue corporations that have racial profiling and get just recourse then we think the system is fine.
We have two arguments for why we should ban racial profiling.
First is that it has no purpose, and second that it harms people of color.
First on efficacy and purpose.
All statistics show that crime is not isolated to a particular ethnicity.
Although individuals like to ascribe criminal behavior to particular ethnicities, the statistics show otherwise.
Althoughs although there is high correlation between things like poverty and crime, there is very rarely correlation between things like race and crime.
Furthermore we think that things like racial profiling largely lead to a misguidance from society.
The most common terrorists, in the united states at least, have been like white nationalists, far right extremists who have deemed society too far gone, too progressive for its own good, and struck out against it.
What racial profiling what racial profiling does is that it distracts police officers and distracts legislators from the real issues in society while letting the most powerful go free.
It goes against every understanding of morality put forth by philosophers and other every other understanding of the law.
For laws to be just, they must be equal and must be fair in their understanding which is impossible with racial profiling.
The second argument is that this harms people of color.
It entrenches biases first off among police officers and second off among society.
When police officers are taught when they see their mentors in the police force regularly racial profiling individuals that bias is passed down among generations of cops.
If every time a black man they see on the street a cop pulls them over, this will happen repeatedly.
This leads to more violence against these individuals as they, once again, are seen as more inherently criminal leading to the problematic cycle of racial profiling.
In society if cops are regularly harassing people of color, people largely will side to the cops and see those minorities as violent individuals and is just equally problematic.
This breeds violence and pushes these white nationalists to attack people of color in the protection of their own state.
For example, when three men on a bus were stabbed in portland oregon simply because a man was trying to fight america's enemies.
To save lives, to have a just system, and a just system of law, it is essential that we ban racial profiling.
Thank you.