We should close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
Since guantanamo bay entered the public eye and became a major part of the political discourse, politicians on both sides of the aisle have rallied against it.
They have understood and expressed to the public that guantanamo bay is both profoundly immoral and hugely ineffective.
It is a time sink, a &lt;unintelligible&gt; sink and honestly, degrades the humanity of all who enter it.
However, guantanamo bay has not been shut down, whether it it is because of lobbyists with particular interest in continuing the military industrial complex, or truly cruel individuals who, understanding that it it is ineffective, want to continue torturing individuals who they deem terrorists, guantanamo bay still remains open.
Because we think this is profoundly wrong, we support the following model: that the united states federal government should immediately end guantanamo bay's detention, with the most dangerous criminals facing a retrial, where they could go to another prison in the united states, which is bound by US law, and the least dangerous individuals being immediately released by the government.
We have two arguments in today's debate.
First off, on the immorality of torture and second, on how guantanamo bay is ineffective.
There are three ways in which guantanamo bay is inherently immoral.
First, there's no due process for individuals who are put in guantanamo bay.
What we mean by this is, first, there's no process to determine if they are guilty.
They do not get a jury, judge, or evidence to actually determine if they are guilty of terrorist activity.
As such, guantanamo bay is hosts numerous individuals who have never fought against united states, have never been part of terrorist activity, and simply were in the wrong place at the wrong time.
The FBI, the CIA, and other intelligence agencies have been incredibly ineffective in determining the actual terrorists and preventing terrorist attacks in the long term.
Instead, they have round up individuals who they think are suspicious and put them in this horrific camp.
The refusal to respect their rights as individuals and respect their political rights fundamentally degrades their morality and makes guantanamo bay an illegitimate detention camp, or even a prison.
The the second reason it's immoral is because torture inherently degrades human dignity.
Even the worst criminals on earth do not deserve to be tortured as it degrades their dignity, essentially says they're subhuman and says that they are deserve profound suffering with no rehabilitative effects.
Because we think it has no place in law enforcement, we would say it is incredibly immoral and must be stopped.
Third and finally, we would say guantanamo bay is immoral because individuals who conduct torture are also harmed massively.
When you are hard hired by the CIA and then made to torture people, you regularly get PTSD, feel depression, feel as though you can never make up for the crimes and harms you have caused to another human being.
Because we think that even if you think terrorists deserve the worst of the worst, because we think that individuals who have dutifully served the united states do not deserve to suffer, guantanamo bay ought be shut down.
Now my second argument is that guantanamo bay is ineffective.
A lot of the time, after torturing individuals, you do not get effective information.
After being waterboarded for three to five hours, individuals will say anything.
They'll lie about where to go.
They'll lead individuals into traps that will cause more deaths, more panic, and more wasted money as individuals follow wild goose chases, based on spurious and unfounded information.
Individuals will lie, cheat in order to get out of torture and as such, torture is never effective, and guantanamo bay is not effective.
Finally, guantanamo bay is ineffective because it breeds terror.
The fact that there's a torture base right off of US soil, owned by the united states, means that terrorists can use this as a recruitment tool and to prove that the west is inherently corrupt.
This breeds more terror and more violence.
So because guantanamo bay is inherently immoral, and because it causes considerably more terror and loss of life, it ought be shut down.
Thank you.