I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should fight global warming.
Although I believe that global warming is real the statements about its harms the implications regarding how soon we need to solve global warming have been massively overstated.
Technologies which exist now could not have been imagined fifty or even forty years ago.
The internet has revolutionized the way innovation and individuals interact and if we simply give the market the time to solve and the incentive to solve what will happen is that new technologies will spring forth and will solve global warming eventually.
As such I firmly stand behind the status quo that is investing mildly into global warming only really focusing on it in so far as the market decides we ought to focus on it.
With that two arguments for why we should not fight global warming.
First off it is horribly inefficient.
Although my opponent wants to say that we must adopt drastic change drastic change will fail if individuals are pushed to follow environmental regulations they will lead to states with weaker environmental regulation.
Just look at the attempts to pass environmental regulation in northern canada and places like anwar when individuals control anwar invested in things like fracking and found even more destructive ways to hurt the environment.
Pushing massive environmental laws pushing huge taxes on state owned companies and states which harm the environment will simply fail as people will get around these sorts of regulations.
People will leave the states which pass these sort of laws and companies will leave areas where they were being massively regulated.
Additionally though it is inefficient because it slows markets.
When we massively tax industries that are actually efficient and actually provide huge amounts of money to the world as a whole and provide massive amounts of utility we slow the market down we cause massive crashes.
Recognize that markets and democracy are the only way that people can speak on a macro level.
It is become clear that people aren't willing to invest individually in global warming technology and additionally are unwilling to elect politicians who will take drastic change.
As such taking unilateral action to fight global warming at the expense of the market and at the expense of the likelihood of people around the world will be horribly harmful and hugely anti-democratic.
It is unlikely that global warming will ever ever reach the level that it will be an existential threat.
And additionally if it is an existential threat people will have huge incentives to invest in green technology.
Until then there's no reason that we should take this action right now.
My opponent would like to say that people are not forward thinking but that's just fundamentally incorrect first we see the lots of people do retire with money to invest in their retirement fund social security is simply a safety net for some people but additionally venture capital and large investors have proven to actually invest in emerging technologies and long term technologies.
Massive solar panel companies in california have made huge amounts of money but are not being supported because they have mismanaged their funds.
Until green technology has a better structure and foundation it ought not be invested in.
My second argument is that global warming regulation will harm the wrong parties.
First we think that stopping global warming requires more than just western action.
India and china are some of the biggest polluters today but they want to expand and it is unjust to push taxes and regulation on their corporations after western states have abused the environment to their own gain.
Britain and the united states have destroyed the environment and put themselves as global hegemons.
It is now time for china and india to use the environment to their own benefit and to expand.
Additionally though coal jobs oil jobs typically are taken by the poorest individuals and pushing these out of society in terms of things like solar panel jobs which go to higher educated individuals or hurt the poorest people additionally things like resource extraction throughout the world are typically done by poor people putting them out of a job making them starve is not a just outcome.
It is not simply western oppression upon poor people only in global warming regulation would truly be western oppression.
Thank you