I stand in firm opposition to the motion community service should be mandatory.
The beautiful part of community service is that it's a voluntary interaction between individuals who all want to improve their community.
When when it is mandatory, when individuals do not have the ability to consent to a particular action, we believe that community service does not have this prideful aspect which my opponent discusses at length.
Instead it is a form of servitude.
I do not agree with libertarians who say that taxation is slavery but when the government literally uses its mandate and monopoly of violence on individuals to force them to do a particular action, it is violating the will of the people and being truly truly unjust.
With that in mind, I oppose this motion and have two arguments to support my claim.
First, the right to autonomy and second, the economic harms of mandatory community service but first I would like to address some of the arguments made by my opponent.
My opponent discusses at length how mandatory community service leads to pride and communal well being and good.
First, we don't think that the pride of individuals is actually meaningful increased as they're forced to get down to the gutter to clean the streets.
We believe that the government will always use mandatory community service as a way to essentially be cheap and decrease the amount of civil servants who would otherwise be cleaning up trash.
This means the total amount of cleanliness in a particular city is unlikely to meaningful change.
It will actually decrease as there'll out be fewer trained professionals.
Additionally, we think as individuals are forced to do manual labor against their will, they will not feel pride in their city rather they will feel victimized by it and as such, be less connected with their neighbor.
My first argument is about the right to autonomy.
We think that the government has a monopoly on force and that it is the only actor who we say can justly use violence to apprehend or otherwise harm people as a result of their actions.
However, we think it is truly truly unjust to use that monopoly on force to force people to take particular actions.
With things like earned income tax credits we incentivize people to take particular actions but give them a lot of leeway in that regard.
Essentially, we always allow individuals to choose things even if we incentivize them to take particular action.
The only exception to this is jury duty where we force individuals to serve on a jury.
We think this is an exception rather than the rule though because the entire justice system would fall apart if we did not have juries.
There is numerous alternatives to having community service.
Using increased taxes to pay for civil servants, actually just allowing the streets to get a little bit more dirty rather than being pristine at all times, these are all options that the government has without losing legitimacy and as such, it cannot use its monopoly on force to force people to take particular actions.
My second argument is about the economic harms of mandatory community service.
First, we think people will lose essential time which they would otherwise be using to develop the human capital.
Although individuals may learn some simple skills from community service, they're unlikely to be transferable or meaningful.
If all you do is pick up trash or build simple houses, you're unlikely to make that into a career particularly because every single skill you learn has already been crowded out by a government who is now offering it for free.
This means that people will take time off of college, will take time off of their job, in order to do this mandatory community service but would otherwise be developing their human capital which also serves the whole of society.
If all people decrease the amount of money they have we have less money to hire like municipal servants and other people to clean the streets which is also problematic.
Would also say that this crowds out experts and specialized actors.
We think it's bad if you decrease the total amount of people who have specialties in cleaning, have specialties in building certain areas and by having the government step in you harm the economy and take away their jobs.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.