We should further exploit wind power.
Wind power is one of the cleanest and easiest to utilize forms of alternative energy.
Unlike solar which requires complicated minerals and advanced technology to build or dams which require massive amounts of investment to even get off the ground floor.
Turbines are fairly cheap and incredibly efficient.
We think that every state on earth would do better to increase its exploitation of wind power and as such, we support the following model.
That all states build more wind turbines in areas where it is efficient.
We think that every single state has some area where they can increase the number of wind turbines or build the first wind turbines for their state.
Two arguments for why we ought to increase our exploitation of wind power.
First off, the environment and second, energy security.
It's fairly clear why wind power is not harmful to the environment.
Building turbines requires incredibly simple materials just require steel and fairly simple machinery on the inside of the turbine.
Additionally, actually harvesting the wind, utilizing wind power doesn't require any further usage any further intervention by humans and it has no negative externalities.
As such, we think that as you increase the usage of wind power you will help the world in a incredibly meaningful way.
Before we get on to the actual impacts of this, I want to discuss why wind power will replace fossil fuels.
There are two reasons.
First, the cost to extract fossil fuels from the earth.
You need incredibly advanced machinery, huge amounts of that machinery, and it costs money to transport the fossil fuels and actually utilize it when it gets to its location.
As such, the costs of producing one watt using fossil fuels compared to one watt using wind power shows that wind power is incredibly cheap comparatively.
The only reason the market hasn't current is not currently using wind power is because to get to a sustainable level where it can replace fossil fuels, you need to have a lot of wind turbines which is why we need the political impetus to build these turbines now.
Secondly, we think political pressure will put turbines allow them to replace fossil fuels although the fossil fuel industry has huge amounts of lobbying power, it is opening in the status quo and fossil and turbines will likely replace things like coal and natural gas rather than oil and these are two industry which have considerably less lobbying power compared to the political urge and political mandate to or to fight global warming.
As such, there are two impacts to this.
First, you'll fight global warming.
This is essential because global warming poses an existential threat to all of humanity but in the short term, it's also pushing people out of their homes in coastal cities.
Additionally, creating these wind turbines will increase the health of huge numbers of people given that fossil fuel plants create huge amounts of smog, can cause asthma or heart disease in areas which surround them, and as such we think they'll increase huge numbers of people's quality of life.
My second argument is energy security.
It isn't essential that governments have control over their own energy supply because it gives them for their sovereignty and further autonomy to further respect the goals and opinions of their people.
The problem of the status quo is that the two states with the most oil are saudi arabia and canada.
Quite simply, either of these states can express their will over other countries in order to make them just bend to their will and stop respecting what their constituents actually want.
We think that industries like opec can be disrupted by these turbines which will give states further control over their energy.
This has two main effects.
First as I already discussed, it increases the autonomy of the state which is essential for to respect the will of the people in democracy.
Additionally, it prevents these energy crises from ever happening which can cause mass loss of life and decreases in economic efficiency which ultimately harm the whole of the human race as there are fewer less there's less innovation and less progress overall.
As such, we should further exploit wind power.