I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should protect whistleblowers.
Although whistleblowers have occasionally done incredible things and been heroes to the population writ large, other times they have released essential information which has put american assets in danger and reduced the overall efficacy of american organizations.
As such, I have three arguments for why we should not protect whistleblowers: first off, on why oversight is key, second, on why we need a high bar in order for government or for whistleblowers to actually release information, and third, on how it will create strife in government.
First off, on oversight.
We think that whistleblowers can only be effectively used if they go to legitimate sources.
We think that when a whistleblower goes to the new york times and releases certain documents, government cannot find them because those journalistic organizations refuse to release their sources.
This means that in the status quo, there's massive incentives for whistleblowers to go to already established sources such as the new york times, such as the government, such as other organizations which are activist groups and NGOs and as such, these groups can determine what information is actually released.
Now these groups also have the best interests of the people at heart and typically release the vast majority of this information, but also censor important documents which would otherwise put american lives at risk.
If we further protect whistleblowers, they'll feel more comfortable going to less rigorous sources, the sources which would have previously bowed under the pressure of the government to release their whistleblower sources.
As such, these less legitimate sources will release important information which will put american lives at risk, particularly in areas of conflict.
As such, we would say that the right to know is less important than the right to survive, and as long as we are putting american lives at risk through a particular policy, government cannot adopt it.
Now my second argument is how there needs to be a high bar for whistleblowers to release certain information.
We think that the status quo is unfortunate.
If individuals have legitimate information that they need to release to the public, they shouldn't have to incur massive costs.
However, if we if they didn't have to incur massive costs, what would we see?
We'd see a massive increase in the total number of whistleblowers.
We'd see organizations around the world begin to release information, even though the leadership in that organization does not want that information released.
Although the snowden leaks were essential, we'd say if if the FDA released all of its policies, if the health inspector released every single way it actually checked restaurants and the schedule of restaurants that will be checked, there would be massive abuses and undermining of government agencies.
This is incredibly problematic as we think that whistleblowing should only occur in the most drastic cases when it is essential that people know a particular action or a document.
Decreasing this high bar and making it so anyone can whistle-blow with very little fear of repercussion will inevitably increase the total wave of information, putting the goals and of government agencies and of private organizations at risk.
Now my third and final argument is how this will create strife in the government.
We would say that as the judicial and legislative branch begin to protect whistleblowers, the executive branch and other organizations which ensure america's safety will begin to feel less than protected.
We think that cooperation with the NSA, with the TSA, with the DOD, is essential in stopping terrorist attacks in our country.
However, if we find that there is an antagonistic relationship between courts, reporters, and the organizations tasked with keeping our country safe, it will inevitably decrease the total safety and cooperation of our country.
This is incredibly problematic because if government fails to enact safety legislation, we'd say it's failing in its obligation to government.
The right to protect yourself and your belongings is more important than the right to have some information in certain circumstances and as such, we should not protect whistleblowers.