I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
Unisex bathrooms are a fairly simple idea which allow greater efficiency and reduce the total amount of stigma which fall upon trans people.
To that end, it is incredibly unclear why we should end them.
My opponent has one salient argument which is that they provide a safe space for individuals who are afraid of the other gender.
Three responses: first, we think that we can still have single-gender bathrooms.
My opponent's policy is prohibiting all unisex bathrooms.
This means that individuals who are trans and can't find a single-occupancy stall are likely to be unable to go pee anywhere.
However, on my side the house, we think that individuals can still have single-gender bathrooms, it's just the majority are unisex.
Second, though, we think there's already no safe space for trans people.
We think that trans people face the greatest amount of stigma and the greatest amount of violence in our society because they are seen as deviants.
They're seen as going against common religious values and, ultimately, face incredible amounts of hate crimes at a far greater proportion than any other group.
But third and finally, we think that individuals who have been victimized by a a man should not feel this sort of fear toward someone who is trans.
We think that it's far more likely you're going to be hurt or harmed by someone of your own gender than someone who is trans.
What do we mean by this?
We think that it is fundamentally unjust, then, to punish other people due to someone's irrational fear.
Yes, if a man sexually assaults someone and someone is then afraid of any individual who then has a penis, they are a tragic case.
However, it is fundamentally unjust to punish individuals who aren't even a member of that group in the first place, because a certain individual feels that that person might be related to them and, as such, deserves increased stigma ans harm against them.
My first argument, then, is that this reduces trans stigma.
We think there's less judgment as individuals who don't look like the gender that they identify as go into certain bathrooms.
They're also more likely to be able to access public areas more effectively.
If I know that I won't be able to use the bathroom at museums and restaurants, I won't go out in public.
There's no reason that I should have to go home every other hour just because I have to use the bathroom.
If that were the case, I would simply refuse to leave my house, become a recluse and, ultimately, internalize incredible amounts of violence and damage against me.
This effectively gives trans people that choice or the choice to never come out, which we think is far more awful, if they would actually like to come out in the first place.
My second argument is about efficiency.
It's just empirically true that men can use the bathroom more quickly due to the , in this case, sexual organs, but essentially the way that men use the bathroom when they pee, it's just faster.
To that end, we think that by creating unisex bathrooms, we allow individuals of all gender to genders to utilize the resources given to them most effectively.
If half the stalls in the men's room are empty because men are using the bathroom more efficiently, they can now be filled by women.
If women don't need to use the bathroom as much as a certain time, men can now go into those restrooms.
We simply allow things to go more effectively and more efficiently.
Though this may seem like a small harm, we see that decreases in efficiency actually cost millions of dollars every year.
We think that things like increasing transportation infrastructure have been found to improve our economy by billions of dollars per year.
Cutting time for each individual to use the bathroom will also save us a massive amount of money.
My third and final argument is about government overstep.
We think it's unjust if government signals to the public that trans people ought to have no accommodations and, as such, no unisex bathrooms it will increase the total amount of hate crimes and violence against these individuals.
For this reason, we should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.