I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize massive open online courses.
Massive open online courses have defined a clear niche for themselves which allows them to operate fairly efficiently and fairly profitably.
Were government to step in and get its claws on this industry we think that the outcomes would be incredibly harmful and ultimately destroy the structure of massive open online courses which many individuals depend on today.
I have three arguments for why we should not subsidize massive open online courses.
First on market distortions, second on regulation, and third on how subsidizing it is simply a band-aid to other educational reform.
First off on market distortion.
Now, if the government begins to fund massive open online courses, if they draw a bigger audience overall and if the and if college students can use their scholarship money on massive open online courses, we'll see two clear things change on behalf of their providers.
First, we think the price will go up.
If you can if scholarships that come from the government typically range in the thousands of dollars, it is wholly illogical to offer a course for only a couple hundred dollars.
We think if we allow scholarships to enter the massive open online course world, the providers of these courses will begin to jack the price up in order to further capitalize on scholarship money.
This is incredibly problematic as those individuals who are currently using massive open online courses are largely people who could not get a scholarship in the first place, who couldn't afford to go to university.
We would say as we introduce this sort of system where there's an incentive for these online course providers to increase the price on the off chance that they catch essentially a financial whale, someone who will pay them a lot of money, the poor individuals who only pay a couple dollars in the status quo will fall through the cracks and cease to get education.
If you buy any of my opponents analysis about how education is a right which belongs to all people, failing to provide all people this right and increasing the price so such that it is prohibitively expensive for people to get into these colleges, will inevitably be harmful.
Secondly, as we increase subsidization and further reward massive open online courses for the number of people who are there, we think a lot of their budget will be turned towards things like advertising.
This is problematic as we think the quality of courses go down as colleges spend huge amounts on advertising.
This is why you see for profit universities not doing very well.
When a university puts seventy percent of its revenue toward its advertising budget, although it can get a lot of students, it is unlikely to actually serve those students well.
Subsidizing massive open online courses in this regard will pull up a lot of copycats, individuals who want to cash in, and increase the advertising budgets of these universities fundamentally weakening the system overall.
Now my second argument is about regulation.
We think that massive open online courses have been effective because they are not subject to government regulation.
This is why you can have courses about literally anything including things like lock picking or hacking.
Unfortunately, we think as government steps in and publicly funds these organizations, regulation will increase and oversight will increase.
This means the total store of knowledge will overall go down.
We think these massive open online courses also have a role as an archiving source.
They are the best way for information to be saved in the long term.
Unfortunately, if government were to step in and regulate these industries and ultimately control the files with which are created through these industries, we think that the total access to information will go down both in the regards to the courses that are offered and the accessibility of those courses going into the future.
Now my third and final argument is this is fundamentally a band-aid.
The issue in the status quo about public funding for university has to do with loan payments, the regulation of loans, and how the federal government allocates aid.
We think that allowing massive open online courses to replace other forms of university will simply make senators and congresspeople writ large believe that the problem has been solved.
This means they're unlikely to pass important educational and loan reform which is essential to bringing students out of poverty as such, we should not subsidize massive open online courses.