We should abandon television.
No forms of technology has inspired as much laziness as the television.
Since the nineteen twenties individuals have plopped themselves in front of television and watched it for hours on end leading to a far more sedentary lifestyle and far greater disease among society as a whole.
Because we believe television leads to a system which causes obesity and heart disease as well as a system which caters to problematic niches we believe that we should abandon television.
The model that we propose to do this is that individuals should simply stop watching television.
It's not as though the government should intervene and actively ban television rather that individuals of their own volition should choose to stop watching this foolish form of technology.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First that it is unhealthy and second that it leads to problematic niches.
First on healthiness.
Television as a system is dedicated to keeping people in front of it.
Channels use their ads in strategic ways putting cliffhangers in putting shows in that require individuals to sit for a long amount of time in order to get more ads in front of them and as such it's led to people going outside less and interacting with their family less.
Although we think things like phones and laptops will largely take individuals away from their family in equal amounts as television we think television is unique in the its inability to move around which we think is incredibly problematic.
It leads to far greater obesity and heart disease as individuals choose to watch television rather than going outside.
We believe this is a clear tradeoff given that entertainment is largely zero sum the time spent.
And when individuals have fewer choices and further incentive to go outside and see what's happening they will generally take other options.
Furthermore when the strategies of television are not being used on them then it does not require constant viewing to actually keep up with a certain show they'll be more willing to go outside and be happy there and we think that individuals are incredibly bad at making long term decisions and as such the government assuming that the government but individuals will not take this option unless there is some some form of fiat as we state in the model.
My second argument though is that television creates problematic niches.
First off on entertainment.
We think entertainment in the status quo depends on carving out a small but loyal niche.
This mean shows like big brother can be racist sexist and generally fratboyish in order to attract that crowd and will never face meaningful scrutiny.
The niches that are created exist all over.
In the far left in the far right particular shows only cater to a certain crowd and as such there's no empathy between these crowds.
We think this effect is even more problematic however with news.
Print media with a particular number of main sources leads to general moderation.
We think the new york times could publish something that's far left or far right before and generally have a discussion between individuals from different political fields.
However with thousands of channels on the air and requiring only a small consumer base new shows are able to attract a particular crowd and continue catering them in an incredibly problematic way.
Where the most effective news channels at gaining a large audience and making money has been fox news which is dedicated to misinformation and far right pundints stating their ideas.
At the same time far left pundits can also create echo chambers which are incredibly problematic.
This leads to division and inability to create effective policy in the long term due to the sort of new shows and generally leads to the election of fascists from a particular area such as trump which we think is incredibly problematic.
Because of these harms we should abandon television.