I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban organic food.
Quite simply, this is a gross government overstep which threatens the health and well being of the whole of society.
Regardless of whether or not you think organic food or inorganic food is more effective, more efficient, more tasty, when government steps in and says that this can never be allowed, that regulation will always fail, we must ban organic food outright.
This harms the entirety of society.
I want to briefly discuss the model which my opponent discusses before giving two arguments.
First, about how this they gross overstep and second, how this harms the health and well being of the whole of society.
So first on the on the model itself.
My opponent suggests that we will ban the labeling of organic food.
This will have two disastrous effects.
First, it will cause individuals to be unable to decide on their own food, be unable to decide the very things which go into their body.
If they cannot find organic food they will consume inorganic food or otherwise have no effective information to determine what they want to consume.
We say this is unjust on face as the government deciding what we eat, what we decide to buy is manipulating ourselves and our hard earned money in a way in which is fundamentally unjust.
Secondly, this will have an effect on the market as organic food producers will have little incentive to continue.
It does cost more to make organic.
Much a the produce are thrown away if they are infested with termites or excuse me with parasites or a disease.
As such, firms will simply stop growing organic food.
This is disastrous as this will have a similar effect to just banning it outright.
My first argument is how this is a gross overstep of government power.
Quite simply, government has an obligation to protect its citizens to a certain point.
There's no perfect information in any transaction.
There's no perfect understanding of the repercussions of any action.
The butterfly effect states quite simply that even a butterfly flapping its wings can cause massive effects throughout the world.
Suggesting that you must have perfect information or perfect understandings of the repercussions of an action, means that we can never truly effectively buy anything or engage in any communal activity under this sort of criteria.
As such, we would say that government stepping in and demanding this simply in the case of organic food causes individuals civil civil liberties to be violated.
Furthermore, this would disrupt the market in a massive way as individuals will feel that the government is willing to ban anything which is simply labels as not optimal.
At that point, investors will be incredibly afraid to invest in anything as the government could step in at any time and simply remove the possibility of investment.
As such, the entire economy will fall to it's knees and fall to bits as investors feel completely unsafe investing in any market.
Now my second argument is about the well being of society.
Organic food as better for two reasons.
First, it's healthier.
Quite simply, the incredibly poisonous pesticides that are sprayed on many inorganic foods are actually dangerous.
There's a reason that many individuals recommend washing your food before you eat it.
It's not just to get dirt off it's because there are dangerous chemicals on your food.
Any individuals feel they don't to feed themselves or their children is incredibly dangerous food and they so they have the right to buy organic food.
-is increases their health, and increases their well being.
If individuals can't buy organic vegetables they're less likely to eat vegetables.
Can't buy organic meat the less I could eat meat.
This leads to more processed items like bread or carbs which we think are incredibly bad.
Additionally, they simply taste better.
Organic food tastes better as it's usually not frozen for as long, it's usually not grown in the off season, and as such, it just increases people's quality of life in general.
As such, we should not ban organic food.