I stand in firm opposition to the motion for organ donation should be mandatory.
I have three arguments for why organ donation being mandatory is unjust.
First being that there is a right to control your own body and secondly that there are religious exceptions which must be appreciated and third that there's less capital for other technology which is important.
On the right to control one's body, we would say that the ability to control one's body despite the will of the government is fundamental.
The idea of bio power as articulated by foucault depended on the government essentially controlling how we use our body, controlling the very actions which we take, controlling the usage of the building blocks of our body essentially organs.
As the government expresses power over our organs tells us that we don't have ownership, they're expressing power over the entirety of our body.
We think that regulation which extends to our body must have an incredibly high bar to justify.
It must first be something which individuals cannot conceptualize themselves and secondly be a pressing need for the whole of society.
We would say that individuals can conceptualize the idea of organ donation and many choose not to do it as they don't sign up on their driver's license or through another any other mechanism which would allow them to donate their organs.
And secondly we would say that very few people actually need these organs in the short term so unless there's a universal cause to control in the citizens bodies we would say this is unjust.
Secondly we'd say that there are religious exceptions which are incredibly important.
Many religions depend on the entirety of the body being intact.
Religions religious organizations such as the jehovah's witnesses would take profound offense at this particular action and essentially feel as though they're going to hell.
We would say that any action which forces someone to be put in a situation where they are literally believing that they will suffer from eternal damnation cannot be accepted and cannot be the official stance of government.
Will doesn't say explicitly whether this is in the united states but because the united states has an obligation not to intrude upon any particular religion we would say that this act is unconstitutional and in other states western liberal democracies ought give due consideration to religious incentives and religious imperatives which state that people can't give up organs in particular cases.
Well the third argument is that there will be less capital for other important technology.
In the status quo there are huge pushes from health organizations towards things like cloning towards things like growing an organ in a lab.
First we would say this will mitigate all of the harms discussed by will in simply a year or two.
But additionally we would say that removing the incentive to invest in these technologies will inevitably leave people falling through the cracks.
Even if we make organ donation mandatory it is incredibly difficult to harvest organs in a timely and effective fashion.
Individuals must be at the place of death as soon as it's happening.
Typically incredibly old people can't donate their organs so people who are dying in hospitals people who are very sick aren't going to be usable, so essentially we're just waiting for people to die due to accidents.
Because we think this is incredibly rare we think that people will still fall through the cracks on the organ donation list and as such will have their rights violated.
Continuing to invest in important technologies is a way that we can solve this for a literally everyone without violating the rights of individuals.
As such so proud to oppose.