I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should invest in embryonic stem cell research.
I have two overviews followed by two independent arguments for why investing in stem cell research is a terrible idea.
First off I wanna clarify: this is not just about stem cells but embryonic stem cells.
Guess what - embryonic stem cells aren't the only type of stem cells.
There are a very variety of other types like pluripotent stem cells which are not taken from unborn children, which are not taken from fetuses, not taken from otherwise politically charged sources.
Can be used for all the same purposes.
At the point where we are investing in embryonic stem cell research all that we're doing is pissing people off and investing in and in an in-optimal form of stem cells and essentially making the entire issue politicized when it is completely unnecessary.
At the point where this is true there is no reason to invest and stem cell research, excuse me, embryonic stem cell research.
The second overview is that stem cells aren't just a mystery salve.
Danny labors under the misconception that the usage of stem cells can be used simply, easily for a variety of problems.
It is very unclear why it would be possible to solve most forms of paralysis, particularly long term forms of paralysis, or stall things like disfigurement or even brain damage as well.
It is very unclear stem cells will be effective in treating these sort of diseases and in a variety of cases stem cells can be rejected by a body and cause far greater harm.
At the point where it trades off with other forms of medication and other forms of health research, it is unclear why we should use a dangerous, risky and largely unsuccessful form of medical technology.
Two arguments: first off, embryonic stem cells are politically charged.
To have an effective scientific community and a an effective market for scientific investment, there must be political support for science in general.
Two reasons why this is the case: first, the vast majority of science research comes from the government.
Universities and private labs fight for grants from the government and largely cater to government whims because they are the largest investor in science overall.
At the point where there's a general political opposition to a certain form of science or even science in general, the entire scientific community is harmed.
Clearly embryonic stem cells are this politically charged issue insofar as they were literally banned just a few administrations ago.
Secondly, if there's not political support for science, individuals who, say, oppose evolution or otherwise take drastically anti-scientific views can mobilize their efforts to get into schools and other forms of scientific teaching, which is incredibly problematic.
If the next generation does not appreciate science either, this will lead to even more anti-science politicians being voted into office and the entire community of health being harmed.
At the point where this is far more drastic, at the point where literally every benefit that danny lists is taken away by a government which opposes science, it is unclear why we should invest in embryonic stem cell research rather than alternatives.
My second argument is that embryonic stem cells research trades off in an huge way.
It takes large labs, long term studies, and huge amounts of investment to actually get stem cell research to be effective.
When there are a variety of drugs which can be created with this sort of money, when there are far more pressing needs such as starving solving starvation, preventing global warming and stopping the current problems which are occurring with antibiotic resistant diseases, it is unclear why we should invest in a fringe and largely unsuccessful form of technology like embryonic stem cells.
For this reason so proud to oppose.