We should disband nato.
Although nato served an incredibly important purpose in the middle of the twentieth century, we think it is currently outdated.
It binds small nations to a massive defense pact, largely misallocating their budgets while also creating antagonism with countries around the world.
We think that nato is inherently exclusive and inherently imperialistic and, as such, we would propose the following model: that all nations in nato fundamentally abandon its usage.
We think that individual states can still sign treaties, can still work together for joint military ventures, but we think that nato and the obligations therein should immediately be removed from all nations.
I have three arguments for why this will improve our world.
First, nato is antagonistic to russia.
Looking at nato's mission statement, it's incredibly clear that they are inherently anti-russia.
It discusses the need to protect ourselves from eastern threats.
We think that nato, as an organization that's dedicated to world peace, cannot be antagonistic to one of the world's major powers.
But going past the mission statement itself, if you look at its past attempts and operations, we see the same sort of problems.
Nato was responsible for anti-missile defenses throughout eastern europe which ultimately led to the cuban missile crisis.
Earlier, or excuse me, later in history, in the eighties and nineties, we see that nato took the lead on many operations that ultimately cost the lives of thousands of innocent people throughout the middle east and southeast asia.
We believe that nato's inherent antagonism to small states and to russia make it impossible to be an organization for peace.
This leads me to my second argument: that nato expands imperialism.
Nato is largely controlled by the united states, france, britain, large american and european states with huge militaries.
We think that these states both have a history of colonialism but also continue to utilize imperialism to expand the their corporate power and military power.
We think that hard power is largely a tool of the past and depending on it largely puts civilians in harm's way only to empower the wealthiest individuals throughout the world.
It is largely unclear why the united states needed to continue to fight through vietnam, why it needed to engage in the middle east as aggressively as it did, but we think that nato, as a inherently militaristic organization which puts war hawks into power, will always lead to greater intervention and greater violence simply to justify its own existence.
My third argument is about the problematic policies that we see in nato now.
Nato currently stations nuclear bombs in turkey.
They may be gravity bombs but we think that fizzle material in unstable states is not a good thing.
We see that nato currently engages small states in military action which also requires that small states that are members pay massive amounts into their defense spending simply to retain their membership and enjoy the benefits of the US security umbrella.
We think that this is fundamentally unjust and largely misallocates resources from essential goods and angers the populaces where nato is active.
Because we think it is inherently problematic on an international and domestic level, we should disband nato.