We should subsidize renewable energy.
Renewable energy is essential moving forward.
It necessarily produces less carbon and less toxic chemicals and vapors which destroy our atmosphere while also improving the industry of all states involved in the renewable energy trade.
As such, we would support the following model: that all states around the world contribute substantial amounts of money into the renewable energy industry, both allowing the renewable energy industry to innovate and substantially decreasing the price for consumers to access renewable energy on a reasonable basis.
This can include what changing the local power plant to all-renewable energy or it can simply be solar panels on top of houses.
We think that any place where renewable energy can occur, the government should subsidize.
With that in mind, we have three arguments: first off on global warming.
Renewable energy will necessarily decrease the amount of carbon and harm that we do to our environment writ large.
Why is this the case?
A massive contributor to global warming, in the status quo, are oil industries and the expansion of practices like fracking.
As we develop larger amounts of oil, as we develop new ways to get this sort of oil, these practices are necessarily more destructive.
Recognize that fracking involves putting pressurized water into the earth, necessarily pushing oil into areas where it was not before.
As such, we think that the expansion of global warming must be a first order priority of governments.
Global warming is problematic on two fronts: first, it necessarily represents the existential destruction of the human race.
Why is this the case?
As global warming expands, the ice caps melt, flora and fauna around the world die, and those which don't die move to other areas where they destroy that ecosystem as well.
The destruction of food, property, essentially all of our ways of living will threaten huge numbers of individuals and cause millions of death deaths.
The second way that global warming is problematic is the less extreme way which is, even in the status quo, it is displacing individuals.
Rising sea levels have put some states, like the state of tuvalu, underwater, and they threaten local fishing villages which is both fundamentally unjust, as these areas are necessarily poor and bear the largest brunt of damage that they have not caused, but also just bad for the global economy as prices of fishing, manufacturing, and other goods increase as we displace poor communities.
My second argument is about environmental quality.
Renewable energy is important cause it does not produce the smog and vapors which we find so problematic on a daily basis.
We think that environmental quality comes in three forms which will all be improved by renewable energy.
First off is air quality.
If you were to go to any city in california in the nineties or beijing now, you would see massive amounts of smog, which give people asthma and make it miserable to live there.
Renewable energy will guarantee that the smog decreases and improve individuals' quality of life by preventing diseases which would otherwise be debilitating.
The second way that renewable energy's good is in water quality.
As oil is pushed through the ground, as it's collected even in traditional ways, it can get into the water supply, destroying crops and harming people.
We think this is inherently problematic and can be avoided by renewable energy.
The third way is through land destruction.
As oil is integrated into the land, it becomes difficult to grow goods and kills many animals there.
As such, we think that we should switch to renewable energy.
My third argument is about energy security.
Renewable energy is only controlled by the state which is using it, while other energy is controlled by a couple of monopolistic individuals, like canada or saudi arabia.
We think that all states should have energy security to guarantee that energy is not used for political gains or to pressure them politically.
As such, I am so proud to propose.