I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should cancel pride parades.
Pride parades represent one of the most genuine forms of expression which exists in the LGBTQ community.
It allows all groups to come together and express their queerness in a safe space.
They're incredibly few forms which allow a similar form of expression, so canceling pride parades will do little more than fracture the LGBTQ community and make it incredibly difficult for questioning individuals to truly experience pride in a meaningful way.
With that in mind I have one overview, one form of extraneous rebuttal, and then two arguments.
First my overview.
Danny suggests that we can replace pride with other kinds of events like days of silence or other ways of expressing pride which are more socially oriented, which are more tasteful or palatable to moderate and conservative communities.
Quite simply we can do all forms of expression.
There are enough days in the year to have a day of pride, a day of silence and a day of activism.
It's there's no way that having a pride parade in any way gets in the way of other forms of expression.
This leads me right into my point of extraneous rebuttal.
Danny suggest that having a pride parade makes it so we make people think that there's no more progress to be done.
Simply put it suggests that active pride means that we've gotten all the policy and social outcomes that we want.
This suggest things like black pride, latino pride, essentially any form of pride expressed by oppressed communities including individuals who've gotten out of jail or felt systematic oppression just is completely invalid because it suggests that progress has already been completed.
This is not the case.
All that pride is celebrating is the expression of a queer identity and the community which has come together to support one another.
By putting the spotlight on pride it creates a positive face for queer activism rather than a negative one actually allowing questioning individuals and moderates to find a much more palatable and happy place than they would otherwise.
With that in mind I have two arguments.
First is efficacy.
The group that matters most for pride parades are not straight individuals or conservative individuals, it is queer individuals.
We would say that whichever side is more efficacious for these individuals is the one that ought win this debate.
It is very clear that having a pride parade is better for queer individuals for a few reasons.
First for questioning individuals it allows them to come together to discuss their identity with other people, to truly immerse themselves in a culture which they have never been a part of before and otherwise make a determination of who they truly are.
We think that individuals have a right to self-determine and honestly try a variety of different situations so canceling pride would take that away from them.
For individuals who are out of the closet and actively expressing it to other people, it allows a safe space for them to express their queerness.
There are incredibly few areas where expressing your own queerness will not get you hurt, will not get you abuse, will not get you made fun of.
Pride is one of the few exceptions which allows individuals to truly be themselves.
Taking this away from people would hurt them in numerous and insurmountable ways.
My second argument is the idea of history.
We'd say that pride parades are continuation of a long tradition which must continue for continued progress.
Even in the status quo it exists as a locus of power and a way in which political activist groups and discuss their ideas with one another and communicate them to the general public in an acceptable way.
However discussing history we would say that's things like stonewall which was one of the first pride parades ever and turned into a riot in favor of gay rights is essential and ought be remembered and will not be remembered if we cancel pride.
Activists groups throughout history such as glad have always used pride parades as a central forum for their own discussions and queer clubs which have been oppressed or attack throughout history have been able to come out for pride and find solace in one another.
We'd say that the continued tradition of this is pays homage in respect to the the individuals who once fought for their own liberation, but also continues this tradition empowering the queer community overall.
For this reason, we should not cancel pride.