We should abolish primary elections.
Primary elections represent one of the worst features of our democracy.
They are anti-democratic, are not representative of the general election and, ultimately, play to the extremists within a population.
But because we think the united states' election system is so fundamentally flawed, we would support the following model: that the united states should adopt a parliamentary system.
Parliamentary systems typically do not have primary elections, as you don't really vote in politicians as much as you vote for the party, who then nominates a particular individual.
Three reasons why this is a good idea: first, on gridlock.
The current system we have of two parties, where only a single individual can win in any given election, is incredibly problematic.
A few reasons why: first, we think that two parties means that there can be winners and losers that are very easily defined.
Now this is very problematic.
If the democrats are trying to pass a bill, it is always good for the republicans to try to block that bill.
This is because a loss for the democrats in terms of faith from the public is always good for the republicans, even if they lose faith as well, as long as they lose less faith.
We think that a system which incentivizes sabotage and incentivizes pushing the government to a halt when the other party's in power is very problematic.
The parliamentary system does not do this.
If I want to sabotage another party, I can.
This will hurt both my party and their party, but a third, fourth, or fifth party will then fill in that void, rather than me gaining everything that the other party loses.
Essentially, our system is a zero-sum game which inherently leads to gridlock, while the parliamentary system is not.
Additionally, we think that the current system is all about getting a super majority, winning as many elections as possible.
The parliamentary system is largely about compromise.
It's parties working together to get similar goals passed.
We think that larger parties can stay more true to their goals and can stay more true to their platform as they have greater leverage in these kinds of negotiations.
And as such, we think you still maintain the democratic nature but also force parties to work together.
This leads me to my second argument about how parliamentary systems are inherently more democratic.
In the status quo, we the primary elections occur from individuals who are the most extremist in the party.
We see this on both the left and the right.
Democrats cater almost exclusively to their most extreme base when they try to win the primary elections, cause those are the people who turn out and because they don't need to win any republican votes.
Conversely, republicans appeal to the most right-wing, extremist, warhawk individuals possible and as such, both parties look odd or awkward going into the election.
The result of a primary election is either that a: the candidate lied in the primary election, is not nearly extreme as they say, or b: that the candidate simply loses in the election because they are extreme as they say, and that just does not win the general.
A parliamentary system will always be better as it allows people to easily identify the issues and the issues that the party stands for and as such, vote in favor of them, rather than having a candidate who flip-flops or is otherwise problematic.
It's also more democratic by having a multiparty system with more options.
We think the choice of democrat or republican can largely be a vacuous choice, and it's very important for other parties to come to power to create more choices for the people.
My third argument is that the voting system is inherently problematic insofar as you do not vote for the principles as much as the person in the current system.
With a parliamentary system, you elect the party, who can then appoint people to certain seats.
This is considerably better as it makes it so it's all about the issues.
The party does not really have a face, the party doesn't really have a voice or a height and as such, you only vote on the issues.
In american elections, we largely see the taller candidate winning, the more attractive candidate winning.
This is problematic and leads to worse policymaking overall.
For this reason, we should abolish primary elections.