I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should fight urbanization.
Urbanization has been a major boon for the vast majority of states in which it has occurred.
It is lead to a greater social consciousness in which many types of individuals have been put in constant contact, creating friendships and bonds which diminish racism and prejudice.
Additionally, it has increased the efficiency of many urban areas which have better infrastructure and better organizational and political structures.
With that in mind, we would say that urbanization is essential, and any attempts to fight it will not only cause massive harm to the market through unjust government regulation, but also decrease the efficiency of the state while also decreasing social contact.
I have two arguments in today's debate, but first some brief rebuttal regarding my opponent's first argument regarding the environment.
The majority of this argument was about things like smog, about things like pollution, about flooding in urban areas.
Everything they said was patently untrue.
In the united states, smog is not an issue in any state.
In los angeles, where smog was an issue in, say, the seventies, this has massively been fought through regulation on cars and industry.
There are no areas in the united states in which living in that city will massively harm your health due to the environment that you are in.
If my opponent wants to talk about areas like china, where there's massive overcrowding in urban areas, going into the world environment there's also massive amounts of pollution and environmental waste.
The most horrific pictures of trash piles and of smog occur in these rural environments in china, where there's mass amounts of pollution, and individuals die due to diseases and harmful chemicals running into the water supply.
If I want opponent wants to talk about the environment and things like global warming, they're also incorrect, as rural environments require you to constantly drive a car, usually require individuals to take up things like farming, as there are not many jobs they can access easily.
This also causes massive amounts of pollution.
Honestly, farming is one of the greatest causes of pollution, as individuals cut down forests and other wooded areas to create their farms or their rural homes.
As such, urban environments are clearly better for the environment.
With that in mind, two arguments.
First off, on efficiency.
Urban environments are far more efficient than rural environments.
You can put far more money into schools, into hospitals and other healthcare services, and into stores, because they serve a greater audience.
When you need to serve a thousand people who all live within twenty blocks of one another, you can build a massive school, a massive hospital, a massive store which has incredible amenities and serves people considerably better.
If you need to serve a thousand people in a hundred mile square, you will ultimately have to build multiple schoolhouses or force the individuals on the outside of that environment to drive hours simply to get to basic amenities.
This will either cause a variety of bad schools and bad infrastructure or will cause a clear ghettoization effect, where individuals on the outskirts of an area have to spend hours getting in and hours getting out, increasing the costs of simply being poor, while also increasing the costs of property around the infrastructure and making it impossible for people in poverty to access it.
My second argument is about contact and social efficacy.
My opponent like to argue about how it's better for society to live in rural environments.
There's a reason why most rural environments vote voted trump in the last election and vote for hateful politicians time and time again.
They do not have close contact with a variety of races and ethnicities who would who are otherwise their friends and ultimately prove that all people are equal.
It doesn't matter if you're in an urban environment, if a white person or a black person is screaming at you, the simple fact that you see them as another individual on your day-to-day lives means that you are far more likely to appreciate them and work for progressive goals.
As such, we should not fight urbanization.