We should ban factory farming.
Factory farming is inherently a corrupt practice which disregards the rights of animals simply to increase the profit of corporations.
It takes the act of farming and attempts to remove as much space as possible, as much time as possible, and as many health standards as possible simply because corporations want to increase their bottom line.
Because we think this is inherently corrupt we would support the following model: that all states ban factory farming requiring that the cultivation of animals be given a decent amount of space to move around in and banning acts like pumping them full of hormones simply to make them grow larger in a small amount of time.
I have two arguments in today's debate.
First off on how factory farming is inherently cruel and second on how it is actually dangerous for the general population.
Factory farming is cruel on two levels, first to humans and secondly to animals.
Individuals who are work in factory farms are typically paid incredibly low wages, they are largely immigrants who do not have the political impetus or the political ability to get another job due to stigma, and as such they have very little ability to hold their corporations accountable.
As such, most factory farms have incredibly poor health standards and work their workers to the bone.
This is incredibly dangerous as there are a variety of workplace incidents which occur at factory farms but we would also say it is psychologically damning working this much time with animals who are constantly suffering.
Additionally, factory farming is cruel because it puts animals in tiny, tiny spaces.
These spaces are essentially where they spend their entire lives, a cage which is six inches by six inches can be the entire space which a chicken gets to be for the entirety of its life.
Although we would say that animals do not have as many rights as humans, having them suffer profoundly, have non -working legs, be unable to ever fully extend their wings simply because a corporation wants to draw profit clearly violates their rights.
Animals clearly have sentience and refusing them the ability to even move around and express their sentience and autonomy is essentially treating them as non living beings and being unnecessarily cruel.
It is clear that corporations can sacrifice some of their profit to expand their the animals living spaces and provide them with greater rights.
Now my second argument is about how factory farming is dangerous for the general population.
A lot of the time factory farms pump their animals full of dangerous hormones.
These kind these particular kinds of hormones can be dangerous for children who eat them and can cause long term health harms for individuals who consume large quantities of meat.
Similarly, the health standards at these factory farms are not up to par.
All if you compare factory farms to largely open air farms you will actually find more dangerous bacteria more illnesses in these animals then animals in open air.
This means things like salmonella and e.
Coli are going to be far more prevalent in meat which comes from factory farms rather than meat which comes from open air farms.
It is the obligation of government to keep the citizens safe.
It is impossible for someone to know before they open a package and eat something if it is tainted or otherwise dangerous to consume.
The only actor which can protect the people is the government and as such we have an obligation to ban factory farming.