We should abandon online dating services.
Although individuals who use online dating services are simply looking for love, many times they provide them with little more than faulty dates and a system which ultimately cheapens human interaction.
Online dating services are mostly ineffective and ultimately make individuals lives worse.
As such we have three arguments in today's debate.
First off on how it makes dating worse, second on how it crowds out real interaction, and third how it creates echo chambers among our relationships.
First on how it makes dating worse.
We think that there is a certain part of dating which has to do with knowing another individual and getting to know them more effectively.
Online dating largely gets rid of this.
It makes every individual have a up front profile.
This is problematic for a few reasons.
First we think it makes individuals less likely to effectively know how to understand the other individual.
When someone is a is completely unknown to you, you ask a number of questions, you can determine things about them that you did not initially know to ask or did they didn't initially know to tell.
However, with the online dating profile format, we think that most of the exploration is done immediately.
As such, the individual is less likely to reveal information that would otherwise make you more close with this person and you are less likely to ask about important information which would otherwise make you more empathetic to this individual and have a better time, having an effective relationship.
The second way it makes dating worse is simply because we think that human interaction is incredibly different an online interaction.
As such, many individuals who are effective at online communication end up being horrifically bad at real interaction.
This is both a waste of time but also it skews your perception towards the dating pool making you let more pessimistic in general.
On the flip side, there are individuals who are very effective at in person communication but not at online communication.
These represent missed opportunities for people who would otherwise get together and as such we think that many individuals ultimately end up with a less effective partner which will ultimately make their lives worse.
Now my second argument is about how this crowds out real interaction.
We think that places like the bar, we think that social gatherings are were incredibly important for meeting your future partner.
However, these have largely fallen out of popularity because of things like online dating.
The removal of online dating would be effective in recuperating these fields because we think that individuals will always look for a partner whether it's for their own urges or simply because they want to have someone to talk to on a regular basis we think they'll continually pursue other individuals who they're attracted to.
As such, we think that the online dating world has allowed these these areas to collapse because they necessarily subvert and supplant them as fields for interaction.
This is problematic because we think the average person is has become less effective at communicating with one another.
This has both immediate social effects as you are less likely to make friends, less likely to meet new people if you cannot communicate effectively with them, but also political ramifications.
If I cannot empathize with another person with unless they already agree with me and fit my perception of what they should be, then I'm less likely to be a happy person and less likely to find political cooperation.
My third and final argument is about how this creates dating echo chambers.
We think that the adage opposite attracts is sometimes true.
It is very nice to date or otherwise meet someone who is very different than you because in these situations you can learn about a variety of new things, you can learn about new political ideas, you can about new activities.
However online dating massively incentivizes individuals to meet people who are very similar to them.
This is problematic because we think that individuals will always create echo chambers where they cease to grow and have somewhat political ideas so they can never empathize with the opposite party which will ultimately decrease the well being of the entirety of society.
As such, we should abandon online dating services.