We should not ban chemical weapons.
Chemical weapons come in a variety of forms.
They can be horrific or they can be largely benign.
This is true of all sorts of weapons whether its missiles.
You have nuclear missiles or missiles the defend against other missiles.
It's true biological weapons in cases where you have something that can spread a small sickness that prevents people from fighting one another or you can spread smallpox.
We think outright bans on chemical weapons are wholly illogical given that chemical weapons are such a varied and important field in terms of both study and in terms of warfare.
We think that any weapon that decreases the total amount of bloodshed is good and chemical weapons do just that.
As such we would propose the following model: that all treaties, all agreements, all laws that outright ban chemical weapons should go away.
Instead we think that individual states can use their discretion to determine which chemical weapons are good and which are bad.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, mutually assured destruction.
Usually assured destruction is something that keeps our world in balance.
We think that nuclear bombs have prevented mass amounts of on the ground warfare between large states from the fifties to now.
However there's a few problems with this.
First we think that small countries simply cannot access nuclear weapons.
Nuclear weapons cost massive amounts of money.
As such, small nations cannot build them.
Even when they do, they can't afford ICBM's which is essentially a rocket which they just don't have the technology to build themselves.
As a result, we think that they do not get the protection that mutually assured destruction provide, states like yemen, states like pakistan.
Pakistan has nuclear weapons but pakistan before it had nuclear weapons all suffered from massive ground wars and as a result massive death.
However, chemical weapons are far more easy to build.
We think that small countries can build chemical weapons which are horrifying, which could destroy whole nations, for far less than they could build nuclear weapons.
This may seem horrific, but we think that even small states have logical and very measured responses to conflict.
They're far more likely to actually understand what is at stake when they use a weapon and as such simply will be preventing other states from invading them, rather than using chemical weapons in an aggressive way.
Secondly though, we think that mutually assured destruction is threatened in the status quo.
Nuclear weapons are all well and good, but as missile defense is improved, they might not actually provide an absolute deterrent.
Chemical weapons, which can be dispersed not just through missile but simply though someone in a truck opening the back or a variety of other means that simply cannot be stopped, ensure that mutually insured mutually assured destruction will continue ad nauseum.
My second argument is that it reduces weapon spending overall.
We think that countries that have to build nuclear weapons must continuously upgrade their arsenal to continue to show they are powerful, that they can keep up with their enemies, that they ought not be messed with.
Chemical weapons though cost considerably less.
You don't have to refine plutonium to actually build them which is an incredibly expensive process.
You would have to build incredibly complicated rockets to use them and ultimately we think that you decrease the total cost that countries spend on weapons.
The result is that that more money can go to schools, hospitals, and infrastructure which will improve the well-being of all people.
My third and final argument is about discretion because we think that yes, some chemical weapons might not be good maybe they should be banned, however things like pepper spray should not.
They're an incredibly useful tool in preventing protesters or even vigilantes from harming one another.
We think that having this sort of discretion is essential and ultimately we think that states are the best arbiter to determine what is best for their own population.
Removing the ability to have discretion, using blanket bans that are completely shallow, ultimately removes a lot of power from states and makes everyone's lives worse.
As such, we should not ban chemical weapons.