We should abolish personality tests.
Pseudo-science has no role in government action however, many government agencies rely heavily on personality tests when conducting interviews whether it be of a potential job candidates or of prisoners of the state, that is individuals taken by the police.
When we use personality tests, we say that the world can be concretely and easily separated into generic blocks and that those blocks deserve differing punishment based on how we fill in a simple and ineffective test.
Because personality tests are so insidious and they must be stopped immediately, would support following the model that all government agencies stop using personality tests.
To briefly define personality tests we would say that these are based on an over arching personality, that they're based on the idea that there are certain roles that people can play based purely on the answers to these tests.
What we are excluding from this is things like cop personality tests where we ask whether or not you are fit to hold a gun, if you understand the implications of your action.
We think that testing whether someone has a particular understanding of their own actions and how it affects other people is probably a good thing to do, but when we're trying to use personality tests to suss out what they think is most important, we do very little service to the person doing the interview or the person trying to get the job.
Two arguments today.
First, on how these personality tests are ineffective and second, that it lends a false sense of legitimacy to problematic power structures.
It is essential to understand that personality tests have no scientific basis.
There's no way that you can place people in these sort of neat boxes.
Additionally, there's a market incentive for these personality tests to be useless.
This is because both personality tests are created in order to have some profound revelation at the end of it.
You can't simply say this is an average person with average goals and ideals because that would seem disingenuous to the interviewer or would it offend individuals as they seem not special.
As such, there's always an incentive for the creators of these tests to blow these things out of proportions.
They much like horoscopes.
If your horoscope said you're gonna have a boring day, you're gonna eat oatmeal and then go to your job, you would stop reading horoscopes.
In the same way, personally tests must have profound and interesting results simply because there's a market incentive to misinform the public.
Additionally, personality tests are based on the day in which the test is taken and the opinions of the person doing the test and providing the test.
What we mean by this is that people get different results on the different day that they take a test and as such, they're completely arbitrary.
Given this, there's no information that can be gleaned from these personality tests and as such, they ought be abolished.
At best, they are simply a fun party trick which has no role in government and at worse they are a racist and sexist institution created by powerful individuals in order to entrench their own goals and place in society.
Now my second argument is that they provide a false sense of legitimacy to problematic systems.
Recognize that these personality tests have major effects on people's lives.
They are use for things like parole where we decide if someone's fit to go back to society.
Rather than sending them to a therapist, many time parole boards do simple personality tests which largest say that this person ought be put back in prison unless they give generic form letter answers that say I'm a reformed individual who will not harm other people.
Additionally, it can affect the kind of therapy you get to whether it's an institution and you're institutionalized or simply working with a therapist.
Worse quality of care is a problem and as such, we should abolish personally tests in these cases.
Finally, it can affect your placement in school.
Sometimes personality tests are used at a young level in order to determine if someone deserves to be in advanced placement or not.
As such, we would say that all of the uses of personality tests are problematic and lead to individuals making incorrect decisions based on bad information.
As such, we should abolish personality tests.