I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit windpower.
As a brief overview I want to discuss what this round is actually about.
Yaar continuously pulls out basic economic principles and claims that we can only debate about things like supply and demand and the basic the basis of profit.
However he leaves out a very basic economic principle which is essential for this round, the idea of opportunity cost.
The idea that every time I put my dollar toward something, I can't put that same dollar towards a different project.
In this round I'm simply going to prove that other alternative technology such as solar hydro are considerably more efficient and even other nonrenewable technologies are better than windpower.
Three arguments.
First off wind power is unreliable.
Is incredibly difficult to know when and where the wind will blow in the long term.
Yes we can predict it on a day-to-day basis but understanding the most efficient places to put windmills and turbines is very difficult for engineers particularly as global warming expands.
It's impossible for a single effort to eradicate global warming so further exploiting windpower will not make this any more reliable.
As such we think as climate shift as wind patterns shift as the the basic geography that we have come to know shifts due to changing weather patterns, we think it is incredibly difficult to place these in an efficient location and reliably get power from it.
What this means is that relying on wind power could easily cause certain parts of town to lose power.
This is on face incredibly economically inefficient.
If I'm uncertain if my business will lose power, first off I'm less likely to adopt new technology or use other methods which use a lot of power which are would otherwise increase my economic efficiency, but secondly I'm not going to move to an area if I could very well lose power for a day simply because they'd rather put energy towards the hospital than my business.
As such any area which further exploits windpower at the expense of other renewable technology will always lose economic efficiency efficiency while providing very little to efforts to fight global warming.
Secondly though we think that windpower is generally unpopular.
Although I personally don't think turbines are ugly many business owners have fought against wind turbines being put near their businesses particularly hotels and resorts.
They feel that these turbines block important views and as such fight against them whenever they're proposed in legislative bodies.
We think that having a united front against global warming is essential to creating long term change.
It is never an individual issue never a there's never a way to solve global warming with a particular strategy.
It must be a wholistic strategy where every individual is involved.
We think that any who attempt to fight global warming which is generally unpopular will always fail and as such ought not be adopted.
Third and finally we think that windpower is actually isolated, that this is incredibly problematic.
The only place where you can actually have wind power is far away from civilization.
If you put it near tall buildings, if you put it near even tall trees, it can block the wind turbines and make them considerably less efficient.
So only wide open fields can actually use them efficiently.
The problem with this is that distance over large long distances the amount of energy produced is considerably decreased.
It's very difficult to send energy hundreds of miles away as you literally lose it to the coils as it travels through.
As such we think that this further decreases the efficiency of wind power and makes it incredibly difficult to actually power whole cities.
As such the other more reliable forms of technology will have to be adopted.
This means that there will be a waste of resources and generally an increase in global warming as you put money towards fossil fuels as well.
As such, we should not further exploit windpower.