We should subsidize women in science.
Science depends on a diverse group of individuals investigating interesting and important phenomena around the world.
When we systematically oppress and remove an entire section of our society at least half of our society from science all that we do is make everyone's life worse off.
By subsidizing women in science, we will substantially improve our society while also undoing systematic injustices which have been entrenched for far too on.
With that in mind, I propose the following model: that women who are getting STEM degrees will have their degrees subsidized.
That is to say they will pay ten percent less than men for the same degrees after taking all other considerations into account.
So someone who's making only forty thousand dollars a year with a similar GPA as a man applying to the same school will pay ten percent less.
Additionally, anyone any women who works in a STEM field will pay lower taxes, about five percent less than men for the same jobs.
I have two arguments for why this will improve our society and generally be a moral good.
First off is about justice.
There are reparations that are necessary to guarantee that women have their past injustices undone and to ensure that the future of women in tech and science is improved and insured.
First let's talk about past injustices.
Throughout history women have been systematically disenfranchised.
Their ability to get educations, particularly in science, has been incredibly difficult.
Each time that they tried to apply to a particular job but they were told that their position in a job or in their university was taking that same spot away from a man and that in doing so they are being a bad person.
We have an obligation to undo these past harms by ensuring that women get a stronger role in the science fields.
Additionally, we must ensure that equality is performed.
We believe that equality of beginnings is the most important thing but many women start at a place that is worse than men in a variety of positions.
The reason why this is the case is because throughout elementary and middle school even high school women are told that because they're women they should not be pursuing things like math.
By subsidizing women's access to science, we will guarantee that they get a stronger role in all scientific fields.
Additionally, by having this sort of system we improve the future justice of STEM fields as well.
First we're going to see less harassment in the workplace as women have can act in solidarity as women start to get into more managerial roles as things like jokes about women jokes that are problematic are called out more often the entire field will be reformed and be a more safe place for all people.
Additionally we think they will be less discrimination women currently face discrimination while applying for jobs as they move into more hiring manager jobs for science fields this will start to dissipate.
My second argument is about the value of diversity.
We believe that as they're a more diverse workforce comes to power there'll be more ideas proposed.
Women generally have different lived experiences than men and appreciate things differently based on the societal conditions of their upbringing.
This means that they have different ideas that they can bring to the system.
This means that they have different things that they focus on or view that men simply look over or see as unimportant.
Generally we believe that more ideas, more ways to investigate a an issue is more likely to produce a better product and as a result as women start to join these fields we'll get better products which will increase our efficiency and our happy our happiness overall.
Additionally we believe diversity in the workplace is good because when women have cohorts when they have people that they can depend upon it when they have certain issues that men simply can't understand or are unwilling to understand they'll be able to find solidarity and happiness in other women in tech having idols having friends in your field is generally a good thing and a happier employee is a more efficient employee is and a more efficient employee in science makes the entire world a better place.
For this reason we should subsidize women in science.