I stand in firm opposition to the motion physical education should be mandatory.
Forcing children into physical education does little more than breed resentment and force schools to use valuable time on things that honestly do not constitute learning.
Three arguments for why physical education should not be mandatory.
First we ought oppose all federal regulation over education.
When the federal government forces schools to take certain actions very bad things happen.
It is essential that schools have control over their own curriculum and over their own time.
When the federal government gets involved they act without nuance.
It is impossible to regulate every single school in an effective way.
We would say that schools in poverty, schools in low income areas, which do not have access to ample physical education equipment and who do not have the resources to watch kids all going outside at the same time, probably do not need physical education.
We would say further that schools that are dedicated to say science or the arts do not need physical education when there are other alternatives which are far more effective.
When the federal government steps in to pass policies over education, the freedom of schools are threatened and inevitably education is worsened.
The second argument I'd like to make is that unstructured play is a far better alternative.
We would say that things like recess allow students to do whatever they want.
Suggesting that students should be running around, should be playing, is probably an important thing to do during recess.
This'll allow them to get physical education, to stop them from suffering from heart disease and and other problems in the long term as they learn to love physical education and learn how to do it themselves.
All that pushing physical education does, particularly at a young age, is breed resentment among children.
Many children have resentment against exercise because they remember it as a thing they were forced to do in elementary school, middle school or high school.
Allowing students to decide how they use their physical activity is far better in the long term.
Furthermore we'd say it's not the school's responsibility to have these kids do physical education.
There are many studies which show that starting an hour later, allowing students more time to rest, would actually to better students.
Packing more into the day will do little more than hamper their education in other realms.
We think that the purpose of school is to teach students things that they could not learn elsewhere and physical education is certainly not something that schools need to teach.
Third and finally we think that physical education and physical education classes are honestly traumatic for many individuals.
Students are regularly bullied in these classes, students are made to feel uncomfortable about their bodies, the culture around gym teachers in the united states is one where they harass students on a day to day basis about their fitness.
We would say that it is important that students do get out there and run and that there are probably is some just cases where students are told that they need to lose weight.
However, the way the gym classes have been conducted in the united states means that they are in many ways not a safe space for people.
Making that these mandatory forcing people to go through a traumatic experience day in and day out will do little to improve their lot in life.
Furthermore, as I discussed above, when they are traumatized through physical education we think that they are less likely to adopt it themselves.
Many people who are overweight or feel uncomfortable their bodies are unwilling to exercise because they think if they go outside and wear exercise clothes they'll be embarrassed, they'll be ashamed because of these physical education classes which taught them this when they were younger.
Because we think that federal regulation is bad, because we think that schools ought not be taking this particular action, and because we think it is, in cases, traumatic, we would say that physical education should not be mandatory.
Thank you.