I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize public service broadcasters.
Although broadcasters in general serve an important purpose in order to have an informed electorate subsidizing public service broadcasters is a profound misuse of funds, leads to invalid association associations between the government and certain broadcasters and inevitably leads to capture.
We would say that any attempts to increase funding or even give initial funding to public service broadcasters will inevitably turn the people against the government and create more conflict than would otherwise be had.
First off on how this is a government overstep and misuses funds.
Governments can only act in a market when there is a failure.
When that market does not operate without government intervention.
We see this across the board we see even internet companies who are willing to adopt sometimes predatory practices do not have their business taken away by the government because we think that government stepping in have a few problems.
First we think it is inherently restrictive the government has essentially unlimited funds.
They can tax the citizens.
It can seize funds if it were to compete against other funds that will inevitably put them out of business which we think is generally bad.
Furthermore we would say that government stepping in is invalid given that it decreases investor confidence.
If you don't know whether or not your money could just disappear if they got the government decides to step into your industry you are less willing to invest in the market particularly in areas which you think are high of high importance or otherwise high profit.
This is very clearly it is very clear that government ought not step in in this case given that private news organizations and profit based use organizations can cover the news without a problem.
Because there's no capital t truth it is impossible to say objectively whether a particular news organization is better than another and as such we would say that there's also no objective failure which would justify government stepping in.
And my second argument is the idea of capture.
If government starts to subsidize public service broadcasters it will inevitably kowtow to the demands of that government.
If your paycheck is signed by a certain person you will always have the fear that that person could take that money away or you to say something that offends them and as such you will never have critical discourse regarding the failings of government.
We think this is incredibly problematic as broadcasters will be unwilling to critique the government in a meaningful way.
Even if you take perfect implementation if you assume perfect implementation broadcasters will still be afraid because of the chance that they could essentially lose their entire livelihood and be blacklisted from an industry due to government intervention.
Additionally the perception of capture is horrendous if it occurs among the citizenry.
If the common person thinks that a news organization is corrupt they will stop watching it.
The news organization will fade from prominence and we will essentially be throwing our money into a money pit.
It leads to the destruction of the news organization.
We think it is inevitable that people will see this as capture given that they understand that news organizations always have some bias towards the individuals who fund them.
Now my third and final argument is the idea of invalid association.
We think that funding a particular organization that puts that organization under your aegis.
That is to say if you give a million dollars to someone who then spouts racist sexist or fascist propaganda it will inevitably be associated with the person who gave them that money in the first place.
We think that certain individuals will be bold enough to say whatever they think is true even if it's essentially horrendously offensive.
This will inevitably come back to harm the government and decrease trust between the citizens and the government who decided to fund the public service broadcaster.
Because of this we should not subsidize public service broadcasters.