I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt teacher tenure reform.
The status quo, while not perfect, represents the will of school administrators, school teachers, and the general society as a whole.
It allows teachers to feel secure in their job, providing them for greater freedom, greater protection, and also creates a situation in which there's less tension between the union and the average school.
We think that this is essential not only for the short term but for the long term as well.
Three arguments.
First off, on union opposition.
Now this is a short term argument but it is incredibly important.
The hill that all teacher unions are willing to die on is teacher reform.
Excuse me tenure reform.
Threatening the protection for their jobs will lead to considerably more strife in the average school and will inevitably lead to protest from teachers.
We think that that any state which adopts teacher tenure reform, where tenure currently exists, will have a strike on their hands because teacher unions are willing to fight tooth and nail for the protection of the status quo.
As such, schools will shut down.
This is incredibly problematic for two reasons.
First off there is massive overhead with very little education actually occurring.
Increased overhead costs the taxpayers huge amounts of money without giving them anything in return.
We think that this is never justifiable and as such government ought not take action which causes this.
Secondly though we would say that students lose the ability to learn.
We think if students miss years of their education or have to delay their education even by one year, the entire economy takes a massive hit.
The dependent population gets a larger as individuals have to spend another year in school, another year with their parents, another year trying to get in the college.
This is problematic both for schools and the ability to learn effectively given that students who take a year off are less likely to remember the remember the knowledge necessary to move on but also represents a huge economic loss.
My second argument which is about inherent to all tenure reform is the idea of freedom.
The best teacher is a free teacher, one who feels comfortable altering their curriculum to actually cater to their students.
A huge issue in the united states after no child left behind was inner-city schools who had to teach the current level that the student was teach a certain subject based on the year that a student was in.
If a student was a freshmen in high school they had told be learning algebra or a more advanced topic.
This is incredibly problematic for students who didn't even know the basis of math, who needed to go back and learn fractions, multiplication, basic arithmetic.
Teachers with tenure have the freedom to do whatever they want.
They don't have to teach the test, they can teach in a way which helps their students in the long term and creates the best educational atmosphere possible.
We think that without tenure teachers will inevitably turn to the most safe tactics possible which will lead to a worse teaching environment.
My third and final argument is the idea of protection.
When individuals are old enough to have tenure, they can't find other jobs.
They are too old to get training in other fields and as such if they lose their job they could essentially be homeless.
We think that they need particular protections not to lose their job and have to face a situation.
It's also important to note that the elderly will be the first to lose their jobs in instances of economic recession or hard times for the school.
The elderly teachers get paid the most as they demand a raise every few years and as such when you want to save money you will cut them first.
This means that in whenever there is even mild strife economically with schools, many elderly teachers will lose their jobs, be put on the street, and essentially have no good quality of life.
We think that the school system must serve teachers as well as students and as such we ought not adopt teacher tenure reform.