I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase racial profiling in airports.
Racial profiling is a scourge upon law enforcement in any theater.
Codifying it in law and suggesting that particular agents of that law should racially profile individuals decrease their humanity, harms the whole of society, and harms the very purposes which these individuals are trying to fight for.
What we mean by this is if racial profiling increases in airports it will actually harm efficacy and have a slew of other issues.
I have one overview before my two arguments, my arguments being social effects, and secondly on how this harms efficacy, but first an overview.
If this is modeled in the united states, if we accept that the united states, or honestly any state which has used the canadian bill of rights or the united states bill of rights as a foundational document for creating their own constitution, which, news flash, is the vast majority of states on earth, then unequal treatments under the law, unequal treatments based on the policy codified policy of certain organizations is against their the citizens constitutional rights.
What we mean by this is before we look at any efficacy, the fact that racially profiling individuals treats them differently under the law is both inherently unjust and a gross violation of the contractual obligations of governments to their citizens.
As such, we can never vote in favor of this policy given that it is inherently in violation of the foundational documents of a variety of states.
But if you don't believe that, there are still two reasons why we should not increase racial profiling.
First, is the social effect of racial profiling.
There are two theaters in which this is incredibly problematic: first, in just the airport itself.
Training particular officers to racially profile individuals breeds into their mind the fact that these individuals are more likely to commit terror.
This means that although they are more likely to be searched, they are also more likely to be harassed, treated poorly, having have their things stolen and otherwise face the brutality of law enforcement officers in the areas in which they are racially profiled.
When they are treated as more likely to be criminal, criminal based on their blood, these the law enforcement officers will be far more violent with them and feel violence back.
As such, this will cause considerably more harm in the airport but also train the entirety of airport law enforcement into a mindset where they are inherently racist.
This will also spill over into the whole of society as people who go through the airport see these people getting scanned every single time and as these airport officials leave the airport to their day to day lives, they will transcribe that racism into other situations.
This increases the overall racism in the whole of society increasing violence on a day to day level and making individuals more likely to commit terror against those states which they feel are inherently oppressive and racist.
Now my second arguement is about how this harms efficacy.
I would first want to address the argument my opponent gives before giving them some unique analysis of my own about how this harms efficacy.
First, we would say that anyone could be a terrorist.
My opponents suggest that the people who are committing terror are always going to be darker skinned.
First, we think that through propaganda and recruitment tactics people of any race could become a terrorist and secondly, people who are white exist all over the world.
Finding a light skinned person in a war torn area might be more difficult than say in the united states, however, it is not actually that difficult.
As such terror organizations always have people who will not be racially profiled which means that there's no increased efficacy by racially profiling these people.
Additionally, a lot of the time airport officials can't tell someone's race.
They can't tell the difference between someone from the middle east or someone from a spanish speaking nation.
As such it will have no efficacy and all you'll do is racially profile people who have literally no correlation with terror.
Finally we think it'll lead to more anger and ignoring other individuals who are not of a a race other than white allowing white people to get through with more violations, decreasing overall safety.
As such we should not increase racial profiling in airports.