Organ donation should be mandatory.
When there are thousands of people on waiting lists simply dying in hospital beds because they cannot get an organ, it is illogical that we do not make organ donation mandatory.
Simply put, forcing individuals to donate their organs upon death will save tens of thousands of lives, depoliticize the issue of organ donation, and simply put, increase the rights of all individuals who currently want organs and who will need organs in the future because their organs fail.
With this in mind, we would support the following model.
That all states with the resources to do so should force individuals to give their organs upon death.
It's unlikely that individuals will attempt to hide their organs or otherwise make it impossible for the state to get them.
So we won't need to punish dead individuals for not donating their organs.
We would say there'll probably be fines or other punishments for individuals who want to stop the government from getting organs after their family members die, but we don't think that will be a major issue.
With that in mind, two arguments.
First off is about rights.
We would say that individuals do not have a right to their body or honestly, any property upon death.
My opponents might come up and discuss the idea of inheritance.
That we allow individuals to allocate resources upon their death.
The only reason that we allow inheritance to exist is because of the utility of the issue.
We think that's more effective for people to decide and define what they where they want their resources to go so they'll continue to save their money in later life and continue to work for money as their life goes on.
This is a completely different issue with organs.
There's no incentive to destroy your organs upon death because that would simply be a greedy move that would be stigmatized by the whole of society and as such, there's no utility to be gained by allowing individual to have property rights upon their death over their organs.
At this point, we don't think there's any affirmative right your body.
Once you are no longer a moral actor and you do not have the ability to define those rights.
Similarly, we don't think this right would even belong to families.
Even if you think some individuals ought inherit these rights simply put, because family members cannot gain any true utility from using these organs effectively unlike things like property and money which would be effective for inheritance.
Another rights claim that's important in this debate is the idea of inequality.
In the status quo, poor individuals cannot get organs because they die on the waiting list.
If they can't pay for things like dialysis or expensive drugs they die because they can not get organs.
The idea of making organ donation mandatory will likely equilibrate the system and make it so poor individuals are likely to access organs because the list will be far shorter and far faster once you get on it.
Without any other analysis but the number of lives saved, we think that when rights are truly unequal based on money, the system is being oppressive.
We would say that solving impressive system by equilibrating it and allowing all individuals to benefit from it, is a moral good in and of itself.
Now my second argument is simply put that organ donation saves lives.
When you make organ donation mandatory the number of organs that hospitals and other organizations have increases massively.
As such, individuals are able to get an organ and save their lives.
We think that this means that individuals will live longer lives, more fruitful lives, be more efficient overall, making individuals happier.
Individuals who experience loss less often are less likely to feel depressed or otherwise unable to contribute to society meaningfully.
Additionally, we think that there'll be fewer stipulations on individuals who get organs.
We think that in the status quo, it is necessary to be incredibly selective.
People who get new lungs can't smoke at all, can't even be around smoky products.
Individuals with new livers can't drink at all even in moderation.
We would say that removing these massive restrictions on individuals, removing the ability for them to have autonomy is a good in and of itself.
Making organ donation mandatory and having a plethora of organs with which to give individuals will likely remove these policies and allow individuals to do what they want even after an organ donation.
As such, organ donation should be mandatory.