I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should raise the corporate income tax.
Corporations are the foundation of our market based economy.
Whenever we harm firms, we fundamentally decrease the amount of revenue going to all people.
When government steps in and interferes with the free market all that we see are dead weight losses and essentially a decrease in the total efficiency of our economy.
We believe that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good.
So when government steps in and uses its problematic policies to change how we actually spend our money, all it does is harm all people.
With that in mind, I have two arguments.
First on the purpose of taxation and second on how this actually harms the amount of revenue going to the state but first I'd like to address some of the arguments my opponent gives.
The fundamental assumption that we get out of my opponent's first argument is that by increasing the corporate income tax rate we will incentivize consumption on behalf of corporations.
There's no clear reason why this is the case.
What we do by increasing the corporate income tax rate is make it so all corporations have less money coming in.
This means that they have less of a capacity to both save and less of a capacity to consume.
If we were to increase the corporate tax rate all that we would do is change the amount of money that corporations have to actually spend on expansion and investment.
We think that corporations would actually save more money on my opponent's side of the house because once you change the amount of revenue going to the corporation and once they have less of a consistent and profitable form of income, they're more like to save for a rainy day.
This increases the total savings rather than increasing consumption slowing down the total economy.
I will address further how this actually decreases the amount of revenue going to the state in my second argument but first on the purpose of taxation.
There two purposes to taxation.
First is to raise government revenue.
Now this is inherent to any kind of taxation.
If I were to tax paper, if I were to tax driving a car, if I were to tax individuals for simply existing, then I would be raising revenue.
This means that you cannot decide between certain forms of taxes through this sort of criteria.
The second reason that we tax things though is to disincentivize or to incentivize particular action.
This is why we tax alcohol and cigarettes.
We don't want individuals to actually be consuming them so we are okay with increasing the total cost of their consumption.
We believe that disincentivizing corporate income is horrific for the economy writ large.
We don't want individuals to stop investing in the company however, when you increase the corporate tax rate you effectively decrease the value of each additional hour that individuals invest in their corporation.
If I invest an extra forty hours in a week to improving my corporation's standing, then I get a particular amount of money from that.
If the government decides to take thirty percent of that off the top that essentially reduces the value of my time by thirty percent.
This means that I am less willing to put money into my corporation when I could be spending time at the beach or spending time just eating ice cream.
Essentially by disincentivizing corporate income, you essentially depress the whole of the economy and make corporations worse.
This decreases innovation, decreases pharmaceutical goods, decreases healthcare based goods, ultimately leads to loss of life and loss of jobs.
My second argument is how this decreases the capability of corporations to invest effectively and ultimately decreases the total revenue of the state.
Now if we were to tax corporate income more stringently and more aggressively, all that we would do is decrease the total incentive to earn.
This is problematic.
If we decrease total GDP then we have less of a taxable income going to the government.
If I increase my taxation rate by five percent but the total amount of money that corporations earn decrease by ten percent, then all I'm doing is decreasing the total amount of money going to the state.
Ultimately, this will decrease the total revenue that corporations get and in doing so decrease the revenue going to the state.
This is problematic if we want to invest in things like healthcare and welfare.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.