I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should fight for palestinian independence.
The current system of government in palestine is simply not equipped to take over the regions in the gaza strip, in the west bank, or israel to completely pull out.
Furthermore, it is largely unclear if israel would capitulate to the the the demands of the world government were they to demand for palestinian independence.
As such, fighting for these sort of things when they're profoundly worse outcomes as a result is fundamentally unjust.
We think that is doubly cruel to subject individuals who have suffered for so long to worse outcomes simply because of the moral high grounds the west wants to take.
I have one point of rebuttal before two independent arguments.
So my opponent talks at length about the right to self determination, how every individual deserves to move forward.
I'm going to break this down on individual level.
So first, no individual deserves the right to self determination.
No one is an island, no one deserves the ability to control government just based on their own opinions.
Clearly my opponent would agree to this as this would suggest that a state of anarchy or a state where each individual is the only arbiter of their own like good and law would clearly be unjust and ineffective.
Similarly though it's clear that no ethnic group deserves control of government simply because they are an ethnic group.
Were every ethnic group in the united states or in israel to separate and form their own governments, these governments would be in conflict.
There'd be essentially no way to effectively live your lives or have true mobility as different ethnic groups would fall under realists power dynamics where they would continuously compete for goods and resources.
We would say that then the right to self determination is purely based on effective outcomes.
If we can prove that palestinians are better off and still have more control over their government here they to be under israeli control or under the status quo, it's very clear that we should not provide them this sort of independence.
Independence is not an inherent right.
If you still have some voice in government, if you can engage politically at all, we think that you are having your right to self determination fulfilled.
This leads me to my first argument about how this will entrench israeli fear.
The main offenders in the palestinian israel conflict is not necessarily the government.
Yes there have been operations such as cast lead where israel has taken major operations to destroy hamas-controlled areas at times to at cost to the civilians there.
However, thet major controllers of settlements, the ones who build the most, are the ultra orthodox those who want to expand israeli land based on religious teachings.
We think that when the governments of the world all come out against israel, this is where these people become the most afraid.
Furthermore this is where more liberal israelis also fear the oppression that they have faced throughout history.
This is when they strike out and become more violent.
This will clearly make situations worse for palestinians and as such we should not do this.
My second argument though is there's simply no central body to justly control palestinian territories.
Yes there is hamas?
Yes there's the palestinian liberation front, and .
That being said, none of these can justly control palestinian territories either because a they have not been voted into power, b they are explicitly violent, or c they simply do not have the resources to effectively do these sort of things.
Even if a just government were to come to power, the most entrenched and strongest organizations in palestine right now are largely violent.
As such the result of independence would largely be increased conflict with israel, increased death, and worse outcomes for all.
For this reason, we should not fight for palestinian independence.