We should abandon feminism.
Although feminism is an incredibly important tool and political movement in the status quo, it is largely held back by its name.
There are numerous outdated and polarizing ideologies which link themselves to feminism in name only.
Because of feminism's incredibly wide net, it captures many groups who are otherwise problematic, and who true fighters of equality would otherwise oppose.
Because these two concepts are forever linked, that is, women's equality and feminism, future efforts and expectations will always be limited and always harm the movement as a whole.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the term feminism should be abandoned and the individual subsets should be liberated from the term by adopting their own names.
This will allow each group to identify well under their own name, getting better publicity and better understanding of their goals and reduce the expectations upon them such that they have greater autonomy and can better fight for their purpose.
My first argument, then, is about publicity.
Unfortunately, feminism gets a bad rap.
The first wave of feminism is universally supported.
Women suffrage is an idea which is only opposed by the most extreme individuals.
However, in second-wave feminism, we started to see the movement branch out.
Instead of only fighting for suffrage, only fighting for equal pay, we started to see philosophical movements who oppose certain ideologies that were important to the mainstream.
Religion was greatly critiqued, capitalism as a whole was greatly critiqued, and although each of these critiques were meaningful, the fact that they are all linked and the fact that each future group will always be expected to fight for them or at least be partially linked to these ideas means that they're weaker.
Certain current groups as well also harm feminist goals.
Trans exclusionary radical feminists, although a small subsection of feminism, largely hurt the goals of other feminists.
Trans individuals sometimes do not identify as feminists because of individuals who believe that they cannot be part of the movement because feminism is only for women.
We also see the dichotomy between moderates and radicals being incredibly problematic.
Because moderate individuals fight for feminism in a way that does not involve as much aggression or as much active attacks on the mainstream culture, it harms radicals who would otherwise try to fight and be more direct in their attacks.
On the other hand, the fact that radicals are so direct sometimes makes moderate feminism be seen as an impossibility by certain individuals and as and feminists, as a whole, are then painted by more conservative advocates as being inherently problematic.
Finally, we see that feminism has incredible difficulty tracking its history beyond certain subsects which are more mainstream.
This is incredibly problematic as a strong genealogy, a strong history, an idyll to look back towards, are part of how political groups maintain and achieve the most efficacy possible.
My second argument is about the expectations.
We see profound political implications and expectations when someone uses the guise of feminism.
We see cultural relativism is a current debate in feminism and as such, certain groups are unable to advocate effectively because of this guise, simply due to their name.
Secondly, we see that feminism is inherently against certain ideas.
Things like the pro-life movement may have individuals who would rather fight for women's rights, but don't believe in the right to abortion.
The fact that feminism is intrinsically against particular ideologies exclude these people, even if they would like to fight for equal rights in other realms.
To get the strongest movement possible and to achieve equality as fast as possible, these individuals cannot be excluded.
As such, we should abandon feminism.