We should fight sedentary lifestyle.
We think that a sedentary lifestyle is far more likely to make someone less happy.
Obviously people don't like running, don't really like walking as much as driving, but when taking the sum of their experiences considering the diseases that people get due to obesity and heart disease, considering how individuals feel whether it's self conscious due to the fact that they don't feel comfortable in their own skin, or if they simply feel depressed because they're not getting this sort of exercise and endorphins that are required for them to feel as happy as possible.
We think that fighting a sedentary lifestyle then improves individuals' quality of life in a massive way.
Think it makes people happier, healthier, more efficient, and also improves our environment.
With that mind I have three arguments, first on health.
The most common cause of death in the twenty first century is obesity.
It's individuals getting heart attacks, heart disease, which ultimately destroys them into the long term.
When your heart itself stops functioning, when it spasms and leads to a heart attack, we think that that is ultimately horrifically regrettable.
No one who has a heart attack thinks oh this is just the end of my life, this is what I deserve.
They wish they could go back and change how they acted.
But in many cases what we see is individuals who are unaware of how to actually change their lifestyle or unwilling to because they don't have the correct external validation or pressure.
We think that fighting a sedentary lifestyle then on a societal level is far more likely to push people away from obesity, push them away into a world where they are far more healthy and happy as a result.
This has a few effects.
First we think it just improve peoples' quality of life.
Living longer lives, living happier lives, is ultimately a good thing and this will come about if we fight sedentary lifestyles.
Secondly though we think this will save huge amounts of money.
Because our emergency rooms are filled due to heart attacks, due to obesity related illnesses, costs go up.
If the emergency room wasn't constantly full, if people don't have an hour to get urgent care, we think that you can charge less money.
Or not even just that you can charge less money, you must charge less money.
Every second doctors are simply waiting around twiddling their thumbs is money that the hospital loses.
As such with less demand or less requirement for these sort of healthcare services, the costs of the healthcare services will decrease.
My second argument is about efficiency.
We think that people are just more efficient when they don't live a sedentary lifestyle.
This is because moving around, getting exercise, getting out into the sun improves your well being, improves your mental state, gives you vitamins which make it far more easy to live, and ultimately make you a makes you a happier person.
Being a happier person also improves your efficiency, makes it far more easy if you to go to work and be a happier individual and as such produce better work.
We think that the efficiency that comes as a result of fighting a sedentary lifestyle is incredibly important and ultimately leads to a world in which individuals can feel comfortable, happy, make more money, and our entire economy can get better.
My third and final argument is about pollution.
A massive cause of pollution in the twenty first century are cars.
The thousands upon thousands if not millions of cars around the world spew out pollution on a day to day basis.
If we were to fight a sedentary lifestyle, if we were to make it so individuals feel more comfortable walking and biking to their destinations instead of driving, we're far more likely to see pollution decrease.
Global warming is a massive threat which could potentially lead to the existential destruction of all of humanity so any attempts to fight it are essential to guaranteeing that we live longer, live happier, and live better.
For this reason we should fight sedentary lifestyles.