We should subsidize condoms.
In the status quo condoms are priced at a far higher price than they should be.
Why is this the case?
It's because a condom is a essential good for many individuals.
This means that no matter what the price of condoms are, people will always have to buy them.
Furthermore they're largely plagued by brand recognition.
When choosing between a very very cheap condom or one with a brand that you know will never break individuals spring for brands even when they don't have to.
This means that the they are, many individuals are priced out of essentially buying condoms.
We think that the effect of condoms are not really internalized by individuals and as such there are necessary externalities when people cannot purchase condoms.
We think the government can step in to remove this externality and price condoms at a more appropriate price by subsidization.
We would further say that subsidization would improve general equality because despite the fact that condoms are only used by men, in the vast majority of sexual encounters men and women will benefit from condom use.
With that in mind we have two arguments, but first I'd like to propose a model.
We think that condoms should be subsidized at about ninety five percent.
Meaning that individuals will have to spend incredibly little money for each condom they buy.
It'll be pennies on the dollar to get a condom.
Two arguments for why this is a good: first off on access.
In the status quo individuals do not purchase condoms because they're too expensive.
Why is this problematic?
We think that many individuals get to sexual encounters but necessarily don't want to run and get a condom, so they only use condoms if they are necessarily readily available and near them.
If they are priced out or otherwise decided not to buy a condom in the past this means that an individual would all like to not to use a condom.
We think that access is further problematized as individuals in poverty just can't afford condoms.
While someone from a privileged position might see condoms as a very very cheap good, having to spend about twenty dollars on a decently sized box of condoms means that individuals will have to forgo their weekly entertainment, have to forgo food if they are in abject poverty, and as such individuals are priced out of STD prevention and pregnancy prevention.
We think that this is fundamentally a violation of their rights but generally just worse for the population writ large.
This brings me to my second argument: the idea of the effects of condom subsidization.
Now why do we think that condom subsidization will be good for all people?
First off, they prevent pregnancy.
We think that individuals who are not ready for pregnancy generally should not have to have a kid.
We think that raising a child is incredibly difficult if you are unprepared to do so, or have to pay for an abortion to prevent having a child, you'll have a considerably worse life.
If someone can't afford a condom in the status quo, having to spend hundreds of dollars on a procedure will make it so they cannot afford even simpler goods, necessarily hurting them in the long run.
We'd also say that decreased amounts of pregnancy and decreased amounts of children are largely good for society writ large.
Having larger classrooms, having to spend more money on child welfare, having to spend more money on maternity wards, mean that we can't put this money in other places which is necessarily bad for all people.
Decreasing decreasing the total incidence of of pregnancy will improve everyone's well being.
The second general effect of increased condom usage is decreased STD an STI infections.
This is incredibly useful as STD will can harm many individuals in the society.
If they're passed to a sexually active individual who regularly does not use condoms they can affect huge numbers of people.
We believe that decreasing the total incidents of STD's will mean that we have to spend less money on hospital bills, but also will just make people happier as no one wants an itchy crotch.
With that in mind, we should subsidize condoms.