I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt multicultural culturalism.
Although we would say that no single culture is inherently better than another when cultures collide it regularly results in violence and strife within the states where multiculturalism is adopted.
I have two arguments today.
First off on the violence that inevitably follows multiculturalism and secondly on how multiculturalism harms developing states.
But first I'd like to address the underlying assumptions prevalent in tim's case.
He addresses at length how states are unable or don't have the right to restrict individual's ability to articulate their own beliefs and their own cultures.
We would say that a state refusing to adopt multiculturalism has a few tenants.
First it is less likely to allow individuals from a particular culture or state into the state.
Secondly we would say that it has clear preferences for one culture of above another in the public sphere.
What we mean by this is that a christian would not have more rights than a muslim in say the vatican we wouldn't just see that as good but would say that having a non multicultural state would be like the vatican still accepting that christianity is the core tenet by which it subscribes.
What we mean by this is that individuals still have the ability to come in or leave the state and they ultimately have the choice about whether or not they consent to the state's belief system.
We would say that this is not unjust given the peoples can still leave if they think it is not a good belief system but secondly we would say that if the state promotes a particular set of beliefs it is unlikely that individuals born in the state the people who have the least ability to leave will actually deviate from this belief system in general.
With that two arguments.
First off on violence.
We would say that all action is competitive that is to say if I take up a certain spirit with my prayer or with my cultures it is difficult for other cultures to possess that same sphere.
As such we see that individuals are inherently going to clash.
However we think that a more nuanced discussion of culture is also available.
One will reconsider cultures actors in and of themselves with self interest.
This is supported by a few things.
First off we think that a variety of cultures inherently suggest that they are supreme.
Religions particularly state that believing in another god believing another set of beliefs is inherently bad and as such it puts religions at inherent tension.
Additionally we would say that multiculturalism cost certain people power.
If the vatican were to cease to be a christian state a variety of individuals who derive their power from christianity would lose power and as such lash out against the people or the systems that threaten them.
We think this inherently leads to violence between cultures which is particularly pernicious because as the discourse around other cultures becomes more violent it is likely that they will harm other individuals in a incredibly cruel way particularly innocent people who are just going about their daily lives.
My second argument is how multiculturalism harm developing states.
When a western level democracy adopts multiculturalism and says that we'll accept people from any state it leads to brain drain in a variety of states that are not developed.
We think this is incredibly problematic when people leave the middle east after they get an advanced degree we think that that is a massive loss for the place that they're currently in where their human capital could go much further.
Because multiculturalism will inherently be a draw from other states it is imperative that western liberal democracies do not adopt it as the collective good is always better than the singular good that would be provided to the individual who goes to the western bubble democracy.
As such we should not adopted multiculturalism.