Lotteries abuse positive feelings which individuals have and a fundamental lack of math education which many individuals in poverty suffer from.
Because lotteries represent a cash transfer from people who work hard and who believe in the economy to people who do not deserve this sort of money, we should ban lotteries in all western liberal democracies.
We have two points of substantive material which will show that lotteries are fundamentally unjust.
First, the individuals who are harmed by lotteries are largely did not deserve to be harmed.
We are okay with individuals losing money in the stock market because they have consented to these losses, and the gains and losses as a result of the stock market are very easy for humans to comprehend.
They usually represent percentage changes at most of fifteen to twenty percent.
However, what lotteries do is they abuse fallacies which humans inherently suffer from.
The inability to internalize large numbers makes individuals bet on lotteries, even though they should not do this.
Individuals who hear that they have the chance to earn billions will invest their money, even when the expected return of the average lottery ticket is around negative two dollars.
This means that individuals who are harmed by this sort of policy will almost never see this money coming back to them.
The general result of this is that people in poverty, people who are not who have not been educated about lotteries, are harmed.
While wealthy individuals do not have to depend on this sort of hope just to get through the day, poor individuals, who have not been taught about how unlikely it is that they'll win the lottery or who have not really had it drilled into them how bad an idea it is to bet on a lottery, will lose money and as such, we think it is fundamentally unjust.
Our second point of substantive material, though, is that it's hugely inefficient.
The individuals who run lotteries do incredibly little work for massive gain.
All they do is design pretty scratch-off tickets or pretty lottery tickets in order to gain individuals' money and as a result, there's a huge deadweight loss.
There's no there's no it's impossible to be efficient when the money is being transferred from hand to hand.
It is inherently a leaky bucket, where the money going up is essentially spent inefficiently.
But we'd say, additionally, that individuals who are spending this sort of money could use the money more effectively than the wealthy people who benefit from these sort of lotteries.
If the owner of a lottery is getting millions of dollars a year, they'll spend that additional million dollars on, say, caviar, a yacht, or other luxury goods, while people in poverty would spend the two dollars each that they lost on things like food, shelter, or other essential goods.
As such, this nests more money at the top of the economy than on people in poverty, who could use the money better and more efficiently.
Additionally though, it's horribly inefficient for people who win the lottery as well.
Most people who win the lottery end up going bankrupt.
Because, as I said before, the people who win lotteries are people who've not been taught things like financial responsibility or how to use this money effectively.
They spend the money superfluously, go hugely into debt, and are largely unable to recuperate their losses or even live a normal life after having millions of dollars at their disposal.
Because the lottery is good for no one except for the wealthy people at the top who get to benefit as a result of the lottery system, we would massively support banning lotteries in order to protect people in poverty, protect good feelings within society, and also protect lottery winners as well.
Thank you.