We should tax plastic bags.
Although plastic bag seem fairly inconsequential in our everyday lives, when they choke an animal or when they amalgamate into massive trash islands or into landfills, they necessarily destroy our beautiful and useful natural resources.
We believe that corporations do not respond very well to simple recommendations.
We would also say that an outright ban would be an overstep of government power.
As such, introducing a tax upon plastic bags guarantees that corporations feel the effect of their problematic action.
They will internalize the costs to the environment by internalizing clear dollar costs upon their plastic bags.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that all non-reusable plastic bags should face a substantial tax, up to one dollar per plastic bag that is used.
We believe that individuals can use reusable plastic bags to mitigate these harms and guarantee they don't have to pay this every day at the till.
I have two arguments, but first an overview.
Why do we think this will be effective in disincentivizing the action of using a plastic bag?
The response is fairly fairly simple.
Because plastic bags are not a major part of our lives, because they're largely inconsequential, when individuals internalize a large cost, up to ten dollars more per grocery visit simply because they refuse to buy reusable bags, they will stop using plastic bags.
It is not hard to stop using plastic bags.
It is not hard to buy reusable bags.
It's simply because we are too lazy and don't internalize any cost when we forget to use our reusable bags that we actually feel harm.
When individuals who forget to use their plastic bags are charged relatively considerable amounts of money, they will certainly change their tune and as such, improve our environment.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first, on global warming.
We think that the production of these plastic bags are incredibly problematic.
They're produced in massive factories that necessarily spit out huge amounts of smog, which utilize huge amounts of natural resources and as such, they contribute to global warming in an incredibly problematic way.
We believe that decreasing the total usage of plastic bags which are used millions of times every single day will actually have a substantial effect on global warming and slow the gradual destruction of our planet.
The second way in which plastic bags contribute to global warming is the amount of resources they use simply in their creation.
I don't mean the production process, but the fact they use oil in their creation, the fact that they use trees in their creation, means that they contribute to global warming because as we mine these resources from our earth, we necessarily increase the amount of carbon, increase the amount of chemicals that go into our atmosphere, degrading our environmental situation.
By banning them, we would although a ban would be unjust, taxing them to guarantee that corporations feel the cost of their actions means that individuals can articulate themselves in a market sense to guarantee the environment is protected.
And my second argument is about environmental harms.
Many times animals chew up these plastic bags and choke on them because they look like a jellyfish, because they look like a potential plant.
When animals starve as their environments are destroyed, they eat plastic bags and necessarily die.
This has made many animals endangered and as such, has robbed huge numbers of people from ever getting the opportunity to see things like a giant tortoise, to see things like many seabirds which are currently going extinct.
The second way that there's an environmental harm through plastic bags is through things like landfills and trash islands.
We think that these use up valuable land which could otherwise be used for productive means, but also just leach into the earth, leach into the ocean, destroying local crops, destroying local reefs, and generally are just bad for everyone involved.
It is unclear why being able to carry our goods in a plastic bag warrants the total death of certain species and the destruction of beautiful, pristine landscapes.
As such, we should tax plastic bags to a massive extent.