We should adopt socialism.
Few forms of political or economic engagement are as effective at socialism as mitigating poverty and other disastrous effects of the market.
When socialism is put in place effectively, it represents the best form of organization saving countless lives and increasing productivity substantially.
Under any value criterion, under any system of morality, socialism represents the best of what humanity has to offer.
As such, we would support the following model.
That all governments should adopt socialism in order to ensure their people's well being.
Before we get on to my arguments, I want to briefly define socialism and what we see this looking like.
Roughly, socialism is the ownership of the means of production by the community.
Rather than any individual owning the entire system of production, individuals own the lion share of it and this is largely distributed among the people.
Because we think that it's very difficult to give a huge number of people ownership of like a steel mill, or a particular factory, we would support incredibly large systems of taxation on the wealthiest individuals and wide scale distribution of their wealth to the whole of society.
This can come in the form of things like work credits where otherwise lower paying jobs are massively subsidized by the wealthiest individuals in a society.
I have two arguments in today's debate.
First on equality.
In understanding equality we must first discuss the role of government.
Now the role of government is typically defined by some sort of contract.
In the case of the united states government, it's defined in the constitution and the bill of rights.
However, in the ethereal government we discuss, this value must come from something else.
It must come from the most moral decisions which that government can make.
We would say that morality depends on either just simple utilitarianism or a deontological obligation to the whole of society.
In both cases socialism is the best option.
I'll get onto the utility aspect of my second argument but in regards the deontological obligation, we would say that there exists an obligation to each of your fellow individual in a community.
They're the individuals which supported you, that allowed you to get to the place that you are.
Furthermore, there's a simple cosmopolitan obligation as in a a society which allow certain individuals to starve while other individuals are allowed to flourish in massive ways, is fundamentally unjust.
Furthermore, the lottery of birth and systems of oppression which exist in many societies, put many individuals at the bottom of society unjustly.
As such, government has a obligation to step in and fix this particular misallocation of resources.
Now my second argument is on the utility of socialism.
First off, on democracy.
We would say that it is only possible to have an effective democracy when there is not massive systems of power where individuals can step in and change the system as a whole.
Socialism allows this as the wealthiest individual subsidize the income and as such speech of many of the poorest individuals in a society.
Furthermore, socialism increases the utility of society as allows for more innovation.
Innovation is incredibly difficult at the bottom of society when you're simply trying to make a living.
But when you have a comfortable weight you can think, dream, and go for your goals.
We think that this increases innovation massively as people look for higher paying and more interesting jobs.
Finally, it decreases things like crime, increases things like happiness and morale, as individuals don't need to live paycheck to paycheck wondering where the next meal comes and wondering if they will fall into starvation.
As such, it is incredibly clear that we should adopt socialism.