I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban home birth.
My opponent relies extensively on fear mongering, on the idea that home births are miraculously considerably more dangerous than hospitals births which we think is fundamentally incorrect.
Housewives excuse me midwives are typically considered very respected in the field of giving birth.
They are trained at length and very regularly certified.
At the point where home births simply put women in a more comfortable environment, we would say that it is a gross government overstep to ban them outright.
I have three arguments in today's debate, first off on how this is a government overstep, second off on comfort and safety, and third how bans fail and are problematic.
But first an overview.
We would say any chance of danger to the child, any recklessness on behalf of the parents are solved through other policies.
We would say that there are not if there is not a properly certified individual in the room, then that could typically be made illegal.
We would say if the parents are willfully negligent that can be made illegal as well.
At the point where home births actually typically have a lower infant mortality rate than hospital birth, it becomes incredibly odd that this motion is actually being supported.
My first argument is the idea of government overstep.
Government so will is fairly correct in when government can step in to ban something.
He says that government can only step in to ban something when there's an information asymmetry or when individuals can't consent to other individuals being put in harm's way.
I'm going to address each of these in turn.
First off on information asymmetry.
Yes you do not have perfect information with a home birth.
If you demanded perfect information every single time individuals took an action, everyone would be rendered catatonic.
I don't understand the implications of eating GMO's versus organic food, I don't understand the implications of driving a car versus going on my bike, I truely cannot trace out every possibility and understand the limits or effects of my actions.
However we would say that it's only an abusive information assymmetry when the information is first truly inaccessible and second a life or death scenario.
First we would say that the information is very easily accessible on the internet.
Much of the scientific literature about home births is easily available online, recommendations by doctors are always used in the case of home birth as prenatal care is incredibly common in the united states and we'd say that there's no threat to the individual's life insofar as as I've already said homebirths typically have a lower infant mortality rate than hospital births.
The second standard that will gives is that you cannot consent to harm to other people.
First this relies on the idea that hospital births are safer because he gives no clear warrant for this you're not consenting to any additional harms, your just consenting to a different action.
But the second standard is that we give this right to parents all the time.
I can put my kids on roller skates and that is consenting to harm's on their behalf, I can give them certain shots or refuse to give them certain shots because I am the parent.
We would say that this is a clear legal and moral precedent which allows parents to define how children are able to engage with the world.
Now my second argument is about comfort and safety.
Many women feel more comfortable in their home.
They understand the infrastructure of their home better and in the cases where they cannot get to a hospital it serves as the only place that they can give birth.
When government steps in to ban it people feel less comfortable, feel less happy during their birth, and generally have a worse quality of life.
My third argument is about how bans fail.
Now it is impossible to ban something like home births.
People who still feel strongly about having a home birth will continue to do so.
All that banning it does is make it so if the child is having difficulty, if the umbilical chord is wrapped around their neck and they need additional medical care, people will be afraid to call the police or the EMT's to help them.
This means that infant mortality will skyrocket in the home birth community as you cannot rely on outside support if there are complications in the pregnancy.
As such, you put more women and more children's lives at risk.
For this reason, we should not ban home births.