We should ban the church of scientology.
It's a bit of a misnomer to refer to the church of scientology as a church.
They're fundamentally unethical, regularly threaten individuals with legal punishment, they consistently use the laws to their own benefit while also suppressing the attempts of law enforcement to investigate crimes committed by their leaders.
It is undeniable that the church of scientology has been responsible for numerous deaths and it is incredibly likely that many higher level individuals within the organization have been responsible for the deaths of people close to them and yet the government has been unable to investigate these crimes due to the threat that scientology poses.
It is incredibly unclear why the church of scientology continues to benefit from its tax exempt status and otherwise being recognized as a church.
As such we would propose the following model: that the tax exempt status be removed from the church of scientology.
That in the eyes of the government they should not be seen as a religious organization but rather be seen as an organization dependent on self enrichment by stealing from others.
My first argument is about the crimes scientology has committed.
The camps that scientology runs, their refusal to release certain individuals who want to leave their church, their attempts to threaten anyone who investigates them and they're active part in many crimes that have been conducted over the last forty years is unjustifiable.
It is incredibly unclear why a criminal organization, even if it preaches the word of some god, should continue to benefit from a tax exempt status.
Any organization which prevents the US government from investigating crimes or otherwise doing its job should not be protected by US law.
The church of scientology has failed the people of our country and as such it deserves no protection under our laws.
My second argument is about lobbying.
The church of scientology is able to use its massive amount of funding to leverage particular individuals.
It is also able to use its position as an official church under government regulation as a way to recruit more people.
If the government is explicit and says scientology is a cult, we think it'll be far easier to try them for crimes, it will be far easier to guarantee that people are not sucked into this cult, that more people not robbed as a result of it and also that scientology does not attempt to push political ideologies.
The IRS and other government organizations have warned a variety of churches including the church of scientology to stop supporting certain candidates.
To stop actually trying to help them win elections.
It's unfair for someone to say: " god tells you to vote for somebody ".
That is wholly coercive and fundamentally unethical.
As such, we think that the church of scientology has failed in its burden and failed under the legal definition of a church and as such should be given no such protection such as tax exempt status.
My third argument is just about precedent.
Even if you don't buy everything I've told you about the church of scientology, we think that at the end of the day cults do exist and cults continue to benefit from these sorts of protections.
I do not believe that mormonism is inherently a cult, however its attempts to protect its leaders to its various sexual abuse cases and a variety of other harms it has done is in large part because the united states refuses to try or remove any religious exemption from any organization which has had in the past.
It's incredibly clear that the united states should take that next step.
Should push this precedent to guarantee that these further abuses do not occur, and that any organization calling itself the church must remain ethical.
For this reason we should ban the church of scientology.