I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should criminalize blasphemy.
Blasphemy, although sometimes harmful is a right that belongs to all people.
Restricting speech rights simply because we want to protect a certain religion does little more than breed hate in the shadows.
When there's an open discourse, that is what we can truly appreciate the nuanced opinions and educate people on the proper, or essentially most civil way to discuss things with one another.
All that criminalizing blasphemy does is restrict speech rights unjustly and ultimately lead to far more violation of rights than the alternative.
I have two arguments, first on speech rights and second on how this will be abused.
But first an overview: drew spends a large portion of his speech arguing that this is essential to protect minority rights, that this is essential to protect minority religions.
That's not how this will be used.
We'll see large organizations, litigious organizations, using this to criminalize speech against their religion.
If I want to say that god is cruel because a particularly heinous acts throughout history, I can be sued by every single religion.
If I want to single out a particular religion's inconsistencies I will be sued by them.
But we don't see small religions using this.
It's not going to be muslims, zoroastrians, buddhists.
Will see christians using this, the ones who have the largest power in a country overall, will be the ones using this law the most.
This for two reasons: first, we think that they have the best access to resources to actually sue on this sue for this reason.
Secondly though we think that given that most juries are made up of your peers, the result will be that most juries will not convict someone who say draws the prophet mohammed.
On the other hand if I were to offend jesus, it's very easy to find a group of my peers who would otherwise put me in jail simply because I criticize their religion.
At this point we will see the majority enforcing their opinion upon the minority, which is never good.
Now my first argument is speech rights.
The inability to speak your mind is the inability to engage freely with your community.
It also restricts your ability to voice your opinions and engage politically, which is essential for a functioning democracy.
Now restricting speech rights can never be justified unless there are massive and direct third party harms.
I tell someone to commit a crime that's when you can tell me that I'm violating their someone else's rights.
Criticizing someone's religion has no difference from criticizing them an individual themselves.
We would say that telling someone that they cannot say that a particular religion is incorrect or say a god is foolish ultimately will lead to an extremist ideology and it will provide more power to the theists of the world than the atheists of the world.
This clear asymmetry is impossible to justify but also leads to a lack of discourse on the failings of particular religions.
As such we think this harms all people but ultimately restricts the political and liberty based rights of the individuals within the state where we are criminalizing blasphemy.
Now my second argument that this is prone for abuse.
We think that small groups can become a religion and then criminalize particular speech.
We see this already, where small organizations decide that they want to become tax exempt through this.
This is largely not an issue because government doesn't need to pass judgment on whether something is or is not a religion.
Because avoiding a small amount of taxes going to your obscure church doesn't actually harm the people as a whole.
However criminalizing blasphemy means that the the government will have to decide whether something is or is not a meaningful religion.
This is on face unjust and harms all religions overall.
We also see large religions using this in incredibly problematic ways as well.
Scientology is already incredibly litigious.
It has absurd beliefs and is honestly a con which the german government has already banned.
Passing this particular law will allow them to become even more litigious, will allow them to ban any restrictions overall, and allow religious organizations to bring suits against people which will ruin their lives even if the religious organization does not win it, given that going to court costs so much money.
As such we should not criminalize blasphemy.