We should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
Given the profound lobbying power of fossil fuel corporations in the united states as well as the perception that they contribute meaningfully to our economy, alternative energy is massively under used in the status quo.
As such, we support the following model, that in the united states hydroelectric dams should be used far more often.
Three arguments to support this model.
First off, that the concerns over hydroelectric dams are massively overblown.
Now many individuals have opposed hydroelectric dams through the end of the twentieth century simply on aesthetic grounds.
Many environmentalist groups fought against dams even ecoterrorist groups destroyed dams because they were seen as stopping mother nature.
This aesthetic concern led to many environmentalist politicians and activist groups not fighting for hydroelectric dams.
Without them doing it conservative politicians, individuals who generally oppose alternative energy, also didn't fight for it.
As such hydroelectric dams are massively under exploited in the status quo.
There are rivers and other moving bodies of water which could easily be exploited for massive gain in the status quo and yet we are not exploiting them due to the aesthetic problem.
Furthermore the tech surrounding hydroelectric dams has advanced massively.
Fish ladders have improved, the ability to ferry living creatures and the water through a dam efficiently has also improved and as such there are very little environmental concerns which come from hydroelectric dams.
Because the concerns and the perception of hydroelectric dams do not match the reality, government ought step in to bridge this divide and increase the amount of energy going to the average city through hydroelectric dams.
Secondly, we think that in the status quo hydroelectric dams are politically popular.
We think that they are low-impact, many individuals don't actually see the hydroelectric dams nor the repercussions of hydroelectric dams, they're cheap compared to wind turbines and solar panels which require advanced technology, constant maintenance.
Hydroelectric dams require fairly simple technology and have very little long term costs after initially being built, and finally are high efficiency.
Bodies of water are always running allowing them to constantly produce energy.
Additionally the sheer force of like huge rivers allow hydroelectric dams to produce massive amounts of electricity for the surrounding area.
As such, when contrasted against either fossil fuels or even other alternative energy, they provide massive amounts of benefits to the areas around them.
Additionally we think as individuals see the benefits of hydroelectric dams, the political popularity leads to a shift in our the perception of global warming in general.
For global warming to effectively be fought, there must be wholistic and total opposition to problematic standards, to problematic ways of life which contribute to it and we think that this is a good step towards more people accepting alternative energy.
My third and final argument is that this prevents the existential threat of global warming.
In the status quo, fossil fuels are falling off the face of the earth.
They are not nearly as profitable as they used to be, it's very clear that they're not safe for many western democracies have to depend on foreign states to actually give them their energy, and they harm the earth as a whole.
It's very clear that if we continue to exploit hydroelectric dams, we will stop using fossil fuels rather than other alternative energy.
This will stop global warming which is currently an existential threat to humanity.
No matter what my opponent says about the aesthetics of dams, the effect of dams on the markets, the fact that we could effectively save thousands of lives in the short term by stopping the rising sea-level from destroying coastal areas but also save humanity as a whole, it means that you should always support hydroelectric dams.
Thank you.