We should ban telemarketing.
There are few things as profoundly annoying as picking up the phone and hearing a telemarketer on the other end.
Telemarketers use abusive predatory tactics in an attempt to drain money from the poorest individuals.
You do not see legitimate corporations implementing telemarketing because they understand that people who get a telemarketing call are less likely to shop at a place unless they are fooled into buying a product.
As such, we can see that telemarketing is an inherently abusive tactic which wastes huge amounts of time and generally causes headaches for the whole of the population.
As such we would support the following model: that governments around the world should ban telemarketing refusing to provide numbers to corporations which attempt to implement telemarketing and if they do somehow find a way around it they'll be levied a huge fine which will massively disincentivize their continuation of telemarketing.
With that in mind we have two arguments.
First, that telemarketing is inherently wasteful.
Telemarketing takes up huge amount of time throughout the day.
It has thousands of people in call centers calling people around the world and in an attempt to sell them a wasteful or otherwise bad product.
It costs the whole of the economy thousands of dollars per day as individuals are distracted by telemarketing calls and as there is an inherent dead weight loss to telemarketing as anyone who spends their time in a call center doing this particular kind of work does very little to contribute to the overall society.
Because we think telemarketing is so inherently wasteful we would say that the government has an obligation to step in and ban it.
It is impossible for individuals to truly check telemarketers.
Because telemarketers depend on small niche customers buying their products after being fooled, attempts to regulate them through the market will always fail.
The only way that telemarketers can truly be checked that we can allow the will of the people to be expressed is if we force telemarketing to be banned outright.
My second argument is that telemarketing is predatory.
As I've said time and time again telemarketers do not expect to make sales on the vast majority of their calls.
When they call someone who is fairly wealthy, who is fairly fine, telemarketers almost always get hung up on.
What they do they make the vast majority of their sales to individuals who are unaware of the opportunities which exist in the other products which exist or the elderly who they use predatory tactics upon.
Some of these predatory tactics include things like spoofing phone numbers.
They will find someone's phone number and call them from the number of one of their neighbors.
It's very easy to find someone's phone number once you have them on a list that you're going to call.
You can find their address without much difficulty on the internet and then find the number of their neighbors.
It's incredibly easy for these telemarketers to use technology to change their phone number temporarily allowing them to call with the number of someone who is close to the client they're trying to sell to.
This is problematic because it can generally cause stress as individuals pick up the phone expecting that a neighbor or other family members is in danger and can otherwise be predatory as these individuals can pretend to be someone close to the the person they're trying to sell to.
We would say that attempts to fool individuals into buying products is clearly not a good end.
Although some would claim that marketing is inherently fooling people to buy products, telemarketing takes it a step further by explicitly lying to individuals and using deceptive tactics like the one I just outlined.
Because we think the government is the only actor which can truly fight telemarketing, we should ban telemarketing.