We should ban whaling.
Whaling and fishing have a long and interconnected history.
However, due to overfishing and over-whaling, a variety of species are currently under threat.
We think that whales are truly incredible.
They're majestic.
They control the environments that they live in, and they are very important to a variety of cultures.
We think that whaling has quite simply gone too far, and attempts to regulate it have been largely unsuccessful.
To that end, we would support the following model: that the international community try states where whaling ships actually catch whales.
This means that, for instance, if a japanese ship caught a lot of whales and the japanese authorities did not take meaningful action to stop it, japan would be held civilly liable in international court.
We would ban all whaling, even for research, because we think that in the modern age, we don't really need to catch whales to research them.
I have three, excuse me, two arguments then for why banning whaling will be good for both the ecosystems and for humanity.
So, first, how do whales affect the ecosystem?
Megafauna are incredibly important to those ecosystems where they inhabit.
Whales, for instance, consume massive amounts of plankton.
They also grow a number of body, excuse me, grow a variety of different things on their bodies which moray eels, which parasites consume and devour, and then they themselves are eaten by other creatures.
We think that if whales were to go extinct, a few things would happen.
First, the amount of plankton will expand at an exponential rate.
This is incredibly problematic as plankton, although they mostly just grow through photosynthesis, would likely strangle other species.
That is to say, if a large layer of of plankton formed on the surface of the water, it would be incredibly difficult for other sea flora to develop and proliferate.
Additionally, we think that parasitic creatures which feed smaller fish would no longer have a way to feed on whales, that is to say, they can't eat the barnacles off them, they can't clean their flesh and, as such, this would harm a variety of other species as well.
To this end, we think that fishing villages would be harmed.
If they can't catch fish as effectively because they're not as plentiful, poor individuals would go without a home.
We think that animals also deserve some respect.
If we are truly disrupting an ecosystem and causing a variety of species to go extinct, we are taking an unjust action.
The international community has an obligation to save international resources, including whales.
My second argument is that this is functionally a theft from humanity.
When an animal goes extinct due to human action, we have truly done a disservice to our future.
Understanding these animals is incredibly important for human long-term longevity.
We think that whales are, first, beautiful creatures, and taking away the sort of sublime elegance that they have by destroying them outright is truly unjust.
But secondly, we constantly discover new things about species which we can then use to form new medication and new technology, and if we allow whales to go extinct, we would lose a massive amount of knowledge which would otherwise be available.
We believe that this is also unjust because it can cause huge amounts of deaths or simply a comparative decrease in happiness going into the future.
Because we think we have an obligation to both our future selves and future generations, we should ban whaling.