The blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.
The arab-israeli conflict has cause profound harms throughout the middle east.
We would say that the greatest victims of this conflict have been the citizens of each state.
When the powerful government of israel necessarily has expressed its need for security by blockading gaza, its demands are understandable but ultimately futile and unethical.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that israel should immediately end the blockade of gaza.
We would allow for some security measures to be in place to guarantee that weapons and other problematic contraband are not put into the gaza strip, which would otherwise destabilize the destabilize the region, but any attempts to block aid, any attempts to block conventional goods, must be ended immediately.
I have two arguments in today's debate: first off on efficacy, and second on how this action is immoral.
Now, we would say that blockading the gaza strip is not efficacious.
Why is this the case?
First off, let's talk about the opinions of palestinians.
When you blockade food and blockade other goods which go to palestine, palestinian citizens necessarily get angry.
As anyone would when you're telling them that they cannot get food because of the actions of another, they will always be angry at the one who is blockading them.
They are unlikely to change their opinions of terrorist organizations in the area, simply because these organizations are not the ones harming them.
In the same way that you'd be angry at your boss if they fired every single person because another person was mean to that boss, you're these individuals are angry at israel because they've decided to take sweeping legislation in response to terrorist organization.
As such, palestinians will do one of two things.
In the extreme case, they will join those terrorist organizations because they see israel as being inherently corrupt or violent towards them.
This leads to greater instability in the region and greater deaths on both sides.
The second thing that can happen is that palestinian citizens can be less willing to have peace or otherwise engage with israelis.
We think the only way to end violence in the region is through discourse.
And if palestinian citizens do not feel respected by israel, they will never actually have this discourse, and violence will continue ad infinitum.
The second way that it reduces efficacy by having this blockade is the international perception of israel.
We would say that things like the divestment movement have depended in large part because of the blockade.
Furthermore, we would say that international condemnation has continually befallen israel because of its actions in gaza.
By ending the blockade, israel can demonstrate to the world that it is done victimizing the citizens of the gaza strip.
As such, they are more likely to get international investment, more likely to fight the divestment movement, and more likely to gain international support with states other than the US.
My second argument is how this is immoral.
While we think that blockading a terrorist group is justified, it is unacceptable to label the entirety of the gaza strip as a terrorist area.
We think that the vast majority of citizens have no culpability in the violence which exists.
In the same way, we would say that terrorist rhetoric which blames all israelis for the violence in the region and the occupation of the area, for the same reasons we would label that as fallacious and unacceptable, we would say that harming all palestinian citizens simply because some have caused terrorist actions is also immoral.
We think that any blockade which restricts the access to food, restricts the access to essential goods, ultimately makes people starve just because one state wants to harm another, is necessarily unjustified and must end as soon as possible.
With that in mind, the blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.