We should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
When minors get substantial body alterations, they are giving away part of their future with no meaningful capacity to regain the lost efficiency, the lost social standing, that comes with a change in one's body.
Because we think that individuals, particularly minors, cannot conceptualize the risk, cannot meaningfully consent, and are considerably more likely to neglect the care of their piercing or tattoo, we believe that it is a necessity that piercing and tattoos for minors be banned.
Our model for this debate is fairly simple.
We'd say that, in the united states, the government should prevent all tattooers, all piercers, from operating on minors.
The obvious threat will be a suspension of their license, their ability to do these kinds of tattoos, and a considerable fine if they're found.
Three arguments why this is a good idea: first off on consent.
Minors have no meaningful ability to consent to the harms involved in body alterations.
Three reasons why: first, they do not have a fully developed prefrontal cortex.
The prefrontal cortex is necessary to understand risk and the essential harms that come along with body piercings and alterations.
We believe that these sort of things are essential , that is to say, the harms surrounding these are essential for anyone to meaningfully consent.
If someone doesn't know the harms to a particular action or if they cannot conceptualize those harms in any meaningful sense, then taking that action will necessarily be an unknown harm to unknown harm to them.
The second reason that minors cannot conceptualize these harms and, as such, cannot meaningfully consent is they're far more susceptible to peer pressure.
When tattoos and piercings are seen as more popular or more beneficial for someone's social standing, we think that minors are far more likely to take action without meaningfully considering their personal stake in these sort of alterations.
As such, we're likely to see children push their parents to do these kinds of things and generally feel pressured to change their body in a way that is wholly unnecessary, simply because of peer pressure.
Third and finally, because children have their whole life ahead of them, and because people are naturally unable to conceptualize the long-term harms of a particular action, we believe that they cannot understand tattoos and piercings' effect on their entire life.
As such, because of their inability to revoke consent and the three reasons I listed why they cannot even understand the consent, the government must step in to protect innocent individuals who do not understand the risks involved with this kind of action.
My second argument is about how they are unable to care for these things effectively.
For piercings, regular washes with water, soap, anti-infection material is important to prevent disease and the closing of these holes.
As such, we think that children are far more likely to get infections due to these kinds of piercings.
For tattoos, it is essential that people hide these tattoos from the sun for a few weeks and take very careful care of them.
As such, we are far more likely to see children with scar tissue, with ruined tattoos, and generally just a lifetime of regret because they did not care for them.
They're too immature to have these kinds of things done to them and as such, they should be banned.
My third argument is the risks involved with these kinds of tattoos and piercings.
There's a dangerous lack of regulation in the status quo regarding piercings and tattoos.
A minor can walk into any mall and get these with little to no parental consent involved.
Even in places that are more reputable, which require parents' consent, we think that they're they don't have much regulation or oversight in terms of cleanliness, particularly for minors who are not really going to be a secret regulator in disguise.
As such, we think it is essential for the government to step in to prevent the transfer of disease and harms to these individuals.
For this reason, we should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.