I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish primary elections.
Primary elections are an essential tool in determining which candidate is best fit to win the general election.
Unfortunately with our democratic system which essentially makes it so the person with the most votes gets through, it is impossible to have more than two candidates effectively run for a single office.
Splitting the votes, a rush to the middle, and funding problems will always plague systems which do not have primary elections but still usefirst-past-the-post voting.
With that in mind, we would say that primary elections are an essential tool which cannot be abandoned.
I have three arguments in today's debate for why we should continue to use primary elections.
First off is splitting the vote.
When there are three or more candidates running for the same office, those candidates which share the same view will always be at a disadvantage.
This is incredibly problematic.
Now the reason that these individuals are at a disadvantage is because if two people are similar but a third person is different, individuals who have similar points of views will have to split their vote between the two candidates who are close to one another while the other candidate can claim an entire base which is untapped by the other candidates.
Without primary elections there will clearly be three-four-five candidates running for the same position so rather than having a candidate with the majority of votes, we'll see a candidate with say thirty even twenty five percent of the votes winning elected office.
Now this is problematic for a few reasons.
First we think it is truly undemocratic when more candidates with similar positions will always do worse.
Why is this the case?
We would say that this is undemocratic because these individuals are likely to better represent the people if there are three candidates with the same ideas and a fourth fringe candidate and the fringe candidate wins, it is not because they are truly the most popular or share ideas with the majority the population, it is because the three candidates who are more likely to represent the population just split the vote.
The second reason splitting the vote is problematic is because it destroys the political mandate.
We think that the only reason that presidents can effectively lead is because they have some mandate from the people.
After you have one say fifty one percent of the population or even just fifty percent of the population you can say that you have a massive base of support to push your policies.
Taking this away from people is problematic.
Having only twenty five to thirty percent of the voting population in your favor means that it will be incredibly difficult to form coalitions or prove that you are truly the will of the people when passing your policies.
This will create gridlock and inefficiencies in congressional systems and cause considerable opposition to the president.
Although that may seem good in this right now while donald trump is president, in the vast majority of situations having conflict between the executive and the legislative branch only leads to worst policymaking.
My second argument is that there be a rush to the middle.
Quite simply, this goes in direct opposition to my opponents point that people appear more extreme due the primaries.
Primaries force individuals to take particular policy stances that will they will probably follow through with when they get into office.
This is because they represent the will of their constituency and they're likely to represent the will of their party.
Now, if we don't have primaries what will likely occur as individuals will rush to the middle because they understand that this is the place where they can win the most votes possible.
The population is generally shaped like a bell curve in terms of their political opinion.
Most people exist mostly in the middle.
Rushing to the middle will allow candidates to win in a in in an incredibly problematic way.
The only exception to this is if there are too many candidates running for the same office in which case fringe candidates can jump in and simply win without represent the people.
The third and final argument I have is about funding.
Now, parties will have two options in the political system.
They can either fund a singular candidate which ruins the entirety of my opponents case but will be most efficacious for the party to get their politician through or they can simply create chaos by refusing to give funding to any individual forcing them to rely on private donors.
I've already illustrated for why funding a single candidate is problematic but if individuals must rely on funding mechanisms to actually get their point across then they'll be reliant on corporate interests and more likely to kowtow to those interest in political office.
We think that this creates inequality in the system and is incredibly problematic.
For this reason, we should not abolish primary elections.