I stand in firm opposition to the motion, big government should be abandoned.
As will discusses, there are multiple interpretations of this motion.
However, from the background information provided, I interpreted this motion as discussing government policies, which may seem controversial in the extent to which they regulate behavior.
I'm going to discuss why governments have the right to take these sort of actions, but also why it is better for society, because it leads to a more democratic society, and it leads to a society, in which individuals can come together in the marketplace of ideas, and truly improve the world through their policies.
First off, on why government has a right to take these sort of actions.
When we enter society, we implicitly sign the social contract.
We vote, we use roads, we pay taxes, we use other people's resources to further our own end.
Although many critics of the social contract claim that it's implicit consent is inherently violative, when there is no contract, or at least assumptive contract, under which individual action can be taken and regulated, society inevitably falls into a state of chaos.
At worst, society falls apart, as there is no understanding, at which no understanding of action or morality, which people can come together, and uses a common ground.
At best, the powerful and corrupt use the fact that there is no system of morality, which underlies policy, to abuse people, and to uses their money and power to express their own ideals, and harm other people in a really problematic way.
So, because individuals are under the social contract, government has the right to regulate any sort of action, right?
Is oh excuse rights are idiosyncratic, so when individuals are in a particular society, the good is based on the conception of the people, rather than any individual person.
That means that, if a society decides to regulate sex, it is justified because they have constructed their own version of the good, and they're pursuing it.
With that, two meaningful points of substantive material.
First off, on how it is more democratic.
All action has externalities.
The fact that I am speaking right now prevents other individuals in this room from speaking, or having a meaningful conversation.
In the same way, driving down the street, even though I'm going the speed limit, has externalities in that I create traffic.
In that all action has externalities, society has the ability to make a statement about that sort of action.
There is no such thing as action which does not have third party harms, and as such government should regulate any action which they see fit.
When we allow all people to speak on a particular issue, have a more democratic society, and given that democracy is an inherent good, it is imperative that we allow individuals to take this sort of action, and allow of governments to regulate any behavior they see fit.
The second point of substantive material, I'd like to present, is the idea of collective action, and the marketplace of ideas.
No individual can take the best action possible, in the vast majority of situations.
It requires the the most individuals as possible to make the best ideas possible.
This is the fundamental assumption in capitalism and markets.
When individuals come together to decide what is good, they make the most utile decisions.
Because society writ large can make statements on any particular action, it is likely to have considerably utile ends, as all people vote on particular actions.
Additionally, if they do, what some might consider, gross oversteps, it can incentivize political involvement, as people will make sure that they express what they believe on the ballot.
With that, we excuse me, we oppose the motion, big government should be abandoned.