We should abolish juvenile court.
A system in which we put our children in front of the law, in which we charge them with crimes which they do not understand and did not vote for, is one which is fundamentally unethical.
Unless a child has committed an egregious offense against the population, unless they've done murder, unless they have done a horrific amount of violence to a important part of our population, it is unfair to judge them in any sort of court system.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that juvenile courts be abolished, that all misdemeanors that children could formally be charged with essentially should go away with a multistrike system.
If someone gets three strikes in of doing these sort of misdemeanors, then they can be sent to adult court, but we still think there'll be incredible leeway.
With violent felonies with incredibly disgusting acts, we think that we will give discretion to judges and prosecutors whether or not to try certain children in adult court but, ultimately, we'll make it impossible to try them in juvenile court.
Three arguments why this is a good idea: first, we get a less criminal society.
Sending someone to juvenile jail, juvenile hall, is not actually an effective way of rehabilitating them.
What happens when someone is sent to juvie, when they're sent to this sort of prison, is that they meet other deviant children.
They meet other people who like to cause violence or cause mayhem and don't actually get the support that they need.
We think that being told by cops that the next time you do it could have incredibly pernicious real world consequences is the best way to show people that they really shouldn't be doing it in the future.
As such, we think that the abolition of juvenile court will likely improve the total amount of recidivism that occurs at a young age.
People won't actually engage with the most violent or vile parts of the youth in our country and are far more likely to actually get support that they need from the police and from their parents.
Second, though, we think that we'll try the worst offenders more effectively.
It's unclear if that that someone who's a serial sexual assaulter shouldn't be tried as an adult.
Especially when someone is a teenager and have had these views imparted on them to an incredible extent, if they cause incredible harm or incredible violence to another person in our population, they deserve to be essentially treated the same way that we treat an adult.
If something is fundamental, if something is incredibly clear that should not be done and the child knows it shouldn't be done, then they're effectively an adult.
We try adults with learning disabilities.
We try adults who don't really understand the total extent of their harms in adult court all the time.
Children are no different from this.
If they cause these sort of harms but understand what they're doing, they should be tried under our system of morality and under our system of laws.
As such, we think that this allows us to actually try children to the best of our ability.
We can give a child life in prison if they truly deserve it.
If we think that they're beyond rehabilitation.
This is important because it ultimately takes them off the street.
It takes a violent and sometimes deranged offender off the street and protects all people far more effectively.
My third and final argument is that juvenile court is a waste of resources.
Having an individual section of law particularly for children means that lawyers have to be trained in it.
Judges have to understand it.
Ultimately, they cannot try other cases as effectively and are largely going to be pigeonholed into this one category, given that that's where they can get their expertise and that's where they can flourish if they already know it.
Removing this sort of system of law makes it so lawyers are far more likely to enter the traditional workforce and traditional criminal law as well.
This gives more options for people looking for lawyers, pushes down the price as supply goes up, and ultimately makes it so we waste less resources on trials that are truly unnecessary.
For this reason, we should abolish juvenile court.