We should end the use of economic sanctions.
Make no mistake economic sanctions are a tool of war.
They threaten the industry's of states.
They put individuals into starvation, ultimately cause mass loss of life and loss of welfare as well.
They are used to a disgusting degree and far too cavalierly by a variety of states which deem themselves just, as they steal food from the mouths of poor individuals.
The continued usage is an abomination and a true affront to justice and as such, we would support the following model: that economic sanctions be outright banned, that organizations such as the UN and the WTO threaten any states which use economic sanctions with immediate disbarment from these organizations and their only usage should be when a state uses economic sanctions in the first place.
That is to say, if the US were to sanction a state like guatemala, it would then be justified for all other states to sanction the USA to end economic sanctions.
All other usage usages it should be outright banned.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, sanctions do not work.
Now this is incredibly important because is a as a tool of war, they cause huge loss of life and massive amounts of harm.
So if they don't work to actually create change they should just be abandoned.
Now there are two two and a half criteria for when economic sanctions work.
First, there must be universal support.
This is never achievable because all states have different political agendas and we live in a multi-polar world that is to say, the united states has different incentives than canada, mexico, the UK, and the EU writ large as well as russia and china.
Any single state that is sanctioned will be able to find a variety of allies in other states which means that a single state's economic sanctions will simply boost trade relations between other states causing no good outcomes.
The second criteria, or second set of criteria is the state being sanctioned either needs to have a desire to work with the west and work with the states that are sanctioning it or have the inability to turn inwards.
Now if it has no desire to work with the west, it generally will not respond to sanctions even if they are universal.
This is because they can simply turn inwards and fund its own goods.
If we were to sanction russia, literally every state on earth that would produce all of its own food, all of its own energy, and generally be able to operate effectively without the support of other states.
This means that both these criteria are a single one of these criteria must be fulfilled for these sanctions to work alongside the universality.
Because it's unlikely that any state on earth will actually meet these criteria, sanctions will just not work and hurt people in the long term.
Additionally, they breed contempt which further reduces the incentives of governments to actually kowtow to sanctions.
For instance, when we sanction iran, it is unclear why there's a link between a nuclear program and economic sanctions as such, the people of the state dislike the USA more and are actually going to support anti-USA actions like continuing in nuclear program as such, they do far more harm than good.
My second argument is that they are unjust.
First, they hurt the lowest off in society.
When a state switches from their primary trading partner to a secondary trading partner things like wheat, things like bread, energy, increase in costs by ten, fifteen percent.
For rich people this causes no real change in quality of life but for people making cents per day, this can lead to starvation and death as such, it is unjust to hurt the poorest in society simply cause you want the whole society to change particularly because the poorest don't usually have enough political power to cause the actions which justified the sanctions in the first place.
Additionally, it generally breeds alternatives to the state.
Not only does it mean that you'll turn to other states for help, you're likely to look inwards to build your own goods and as such, you will all that you will do it cause distortion in the market reducing overall efficiency.
For this reason, that we should end the use of economic sanctions.