I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban fast food.
Fast food is like any other type of food.
It is at times high in calories, but the only real defining factor of it is that it is easily mobile and easily accessible by a variety of individuals.
We believe that banning fast food would have incredibly problematic effects, but also be a massive overstep of government power over the people and generally just be worse for the whole of society.
This brings me to my first argument about government overstep.
Government can only step in to ban a particular action or form of item in a few situations, defined by the criteria below: first if the action is inherently immoral or inherently irrational.
If individuals cannot understand or ever engage in this action without being a moral person than it ought be banned.
It is very clear that someone can eat fast food and still be healthy.
It is very clear that someone can eat fast food and still be rational.
As such we believe that it is unfair to ban it under this standard.
The second standard is if there's an asymmetry of information.
Governments around the world have already been able to prevent this asymmetry of information by mandating that certain organizations, particularly fast food, put out their calorie information on their menu.
And furthermore, fast food companies in the united states require that all of their goods have calorie and nutritional information online.
As such all information about fast food is incredibly easily accessible.
The third standard for when government can ban a certain thing is if it has third party harms.
But eating fast food has no third party harms when compared to other forms of food.
As such government would be unjust to step in and ban it.
We believe it would be acting outside of its capacity as a government and being fundamentally unjust which is a harm in and of itself.
But additionally, it would decrease the total amount of investment that we would see in our economy.
If the government is going to ban a particular item simply because they have are seen as not optimal, than anything besides like buckwheat and tomatoes would be banned.
Because those are essentially the best thing for people to eat.
Anything besides electric cars would lose all investment, because what if the government steps in and bans gas cars?
When government steps irrationally and without clear standards then the market suffers and all people suffer, as our choices are decreased.
This brings me to my second argument, about how this is unenforceable.
Because even if you think that this is a moral good and that the government has the right to ban it, it can never be enforced.
What are the standards the fast food?
That it is fast and that it is cheap.
If you ban food that is quick to make, we ban a variety of restaurants.
We ban pasta restaurants, pizza restaurants.
We essentially act in a incredibly problematic way and generally restrict rights in a way that is unacceptable and will lead to a massive decrease in the total amount of restaurants available.
The alternative is we restrict cheap food.
But all that is is a classist policy which says that poor people cannot actually access food that they want to eat.
This can also not be enforced.
We could also banned food which is seen as unhealthy, but we would destroy every pastry cupcake shop that exists around the world.
Very simply, there's no set of characteristics which we can ban which would allow us to only hit fast food and nothing else, and as such it is either a humongous overstep which bans a variety of restaurants and destroys people's way of life and the way that they get their income, or it is just unenforceable as these places can take longer to get an order out, or cost a little bit more to avoid the policies which affect them.
Final argument though, this will hurt the poor in a problematic way.
Fast food is a cheap high calorie option which many individuals need, if they're working multiple jobs, will always turn to when are given the opportunity.
By banning it, all we do is restrict their access to food in a way that will lead to actually worse health overall and will generally make the world a worse place.
As such, we should not ban fast food.