I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should end athletic scholarships.
Athletic scholarships are an important tool for many individuals who would otherwise be unable to access college.
We believe that the best possible options which we can lay out before an athlete is one in which they have an incentive both to go into college, but also to follow their athletic dreams as well.
It is terrible if we live in a world in which individuals are given a choice between their own education and athletics.
Three arguments for why this is a good, or a bad idea to end athletic scholarships, but first some brief rebuttal: my opponent says that college is about their individuals futures.
About preparing them to live the life that they will have for the rest of their life.
However, I have two main issues with this point: first, it is impossible to determine what an individual will go into.
Athletics can be useful if you are an athlete.
If you're a coach of an athletic team or if you go into education and want to teach any sort of physical activity.
But secondly, we would also say that called should be whatever you want it to be.
Is unfair for political, educational, or any other institution, to define what someone's actions mean and what they ought to mean.
It will lead to a world in which we criminalize particular behavior simply because we think it is un-optimal or generally bad, based on a false objective ideology.
We should always defer to the subjective understanding of the good if we want to ensure that individuals have the most power possible to determine their own fate.
My first argument is about the effect on poor athletes that ending athletic scholarships has.
We think that the ending athletic scholarship will generally make it so poor athletes are less likely to access college.
We think that scholarships which currently exist for poor students might help them get there to some extent, however the additional athletic scholarship allows them to access higher education to a much greater amount.
We believe that in the status quo many individuals from poor communities are told that the only way out is through athleticism and education is generally minimized.
We think that this means that people of color are less likely to get these educational scholarship, simply because that there's been a historical push for them not to even reach for them, because they're told that they can't access them.
This is not true with athletic scholarships so we believe that you'll have a more diverse and more meaningful amount of individuals going on to higher education if you have athletic scholarships.
My second argument is that this will make it so athlete skip college.
We believe that college increases the danger of injury if you play there, but also is unlikely to have a reward if you really want to be a professional athlete.
My opponent is right that many individuals probably won't be a professional athlete.
However, they think they will.
This is incredibly important because if they think that it is more valuable to play pick up basketball every single day rather than go to college and spend a huge amount of money that they simply do not have, we generally think that they will skip college.
This asymmetry of information is incredibly problematic, given that individuals will now be hurting themselves in the long term by not going to college at all.
My opponent likes to suggest that athletes get nothing out of college.
However, this is a trope that comes from media rather than a truth.
Athletes still attend classes and are generally some of the best students, who sit in the front row and work the hardest.
And as such we think that they should be able to both do athletics and go to college.
My third argument is about how this will affect schools.
Because we think that athletic scholarship can actually be revenue positive for a variety of different schools.
Why is this the case?
Spending money doesn't always mean that you get less money in the long term.
This is the entire idea of marketing.
By having more athletes and having an effective athletic college with a dense and well respected athletic program, we're a lot likely to bring in more athletes, more likely to bring in more people who want to go to an athletic school and generally lead to a situation in which you can get more money through individuals who go to your games and actually want to see it.
As such, we think that this will lead to more scholarships and more money for the school if you have the sort of athletic scholarships.
For this reason, we should not end athletic scholarships.