I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban targeted killing.
Targeted killing is one of the most safe and efficient forms of military intervention which has come about in the last hundred years.
Quite simply, as an alternative to boots on the ground, targeted killing leads to far less terror, far less violence against civilians, and far more efficacy in actually killing guilty targets.
With that in mind, I have one overview, two pieces of extraneous rebuttal, and then two arguments of my own.
My overview is about what this round is truly about because when discussing the tools of military intervention, we cannot discuss any of them in a vacuum.
US military intervention will always continue as long as the war on drugs is happening and the war on terror is happening.
There will always be insurgents.
There will always be drug cartels.
As there will always be political and profit based incentives for these groups to exist.
As such, this debate must be about the best form of military intervention.
I would agree with much of tim's analysis that killing people is morally wrong.
That killing them extra judicially is even more morally wrong but when every single alternative would have these individuals die at the hands of US forces, targeted killing is the most effective way in which to ensure the safety of civilians and of our soldiers.
Now my extraneous rebuttal leads right into this with by refuting the argument that these individuals have a right to mount a defense in a court of law.
Quite simply, these people will never go freely.
The US has a terrible reputation of torturing terrorists particularly individuals who they deem who they think are guilty.
They use what they call interrogation techniques which consist of waterboarding and horrific forms of torture to get information out of these individuals.
This fear coupled with the urge to kill US soldiers whenever they see them will make it so these terrorists will never go alive because they can never mount a defense.
No form of military intervention will ever be effective in actually getting to this end.
Now the second piece of extraneous rebuttal is this point about political rivals because tim argues that political rivals will be assassinated using targeted killing.
This is unlikely because targeted killing has mass amounts of regulation.
If we were to ban targeted killing it would make no difference in the political rivals department because every time a political rival is killed it is done executes judicially.
It is done by thugs and violent criminals who have been employed by politicians to actually kill their political rival rivals rather than a form of actual military policy as such, whenever targeted killing occurs in a legal sense there's always mass amounts of regulation to ensure that it does not occur against political rivals.
With that, two arguments.
First off, targeted killing is far more safe.
When yet put boots on the ground rather than simply a drone in the air, these people are far more likely to die to an IED or a terrorist who is stationed in the area to defend a particular criminal.
We think this is generally bad and the government has an obligation to protect these people and as such targeted killing is far more preferable.
Secondly is the idea of civilians.
When fighting insurgents it is almost impossible to tell the difference between an individual who is a civilian or an individual who's an enemy combatant.
Unless you see a gun in their hand it is impossible to tell.
Unfortunately, many soldiers are trigger happy.
They're afraid of being shot and as such, they are likely to shoot any civilians that they see.
This means that boots on the ground will always lead to greater deaths because these soldiers feel unsafe.
Compare this to a drone in the air or a seal team six operation with they won't see a single terrorist, and you'll see that civilians die far less in these targeted killing operations.
Now my second argument is the idea of efficacy.
Now targeted killings first prevent terrorists from getting away because they use drones in the air rather than a massive force on the ground which will which terrorists will always be alerted to.
Secondly, they're less likely to breed terror as boots on the ground are seen as greater forms of imperialism and more likely to kill civilians.
Third and finally, this deters terror because if they truly just fear hellfire coming from the sky they will not commit terrorist actions nearly as likely.
My opponent would like to construct terrorists as illogical actors, but they too fear death as such, we should not ban targeted killing.