Humanitarian aid should be subsidized.
Humanitarian aid is an essential part of our modern world.
In many failed or otherwise developing states, we think that humanitarian aid saves countless lives and massively raises the quality of life.
Even if it weren't imperative that humanitarian aid exists in order to save these people's lives, we think improving people's quality of life, while also providing them the material means to actually approach empowerment, approach a better quality of life as a whole, is generally a good thing.
Humanitarian aid is unique because as we offload some of the responsibilities of local peoples onto humanitarian workers, they can better approach things like education, raising children, and overall improving their society.
Subsidizing humanitarian aid, then, is essential in that it helps the entire world.
We think that helping people in developed countries is kind of difficult.
It's hard to improve the quality of life of someone in, say, norway.
However, each additional dollar that we spend in the developing world goes a massive distance.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that humanitarian aid spending be essentially multiplied by the government, that every dollar spent by a person should be matched by about zero point two by a quarter, essentially, twenty five cents, which always must go to the worker's salary.
Three arguments why this is a good idea: first, on desert claims.
We think that individuals ought be paid based on their societal contribution.
If I built a table, I should be able to sell that table, and the amount that I help society by helping a a single individual is the amount of money I should get back.
Humanitarian workers are unique in that the work that they do actually helps the whole of society.
In many ways, it helps both the local communities that they work in but also helps the global environment as it offsets other costs, decreases the likelihood of war refugees, and overall improves the quality of life by people by minimizing suffering.
As such, we think that there's a massive desert claim for these individuals to get this sort of money.
It's largely unclear why selfless people who work the hardest they can in incredibly difficult areas ought not be paid commensurately.
Subsidizing humanitarian aid fulfills this moral burden that falls on all of us, that we must essentially subsidize these individuals to empower them.
My second argument is that this further professionalizes humanitarian aid.
There's already organizations, like doctors without borders, that push doctors into these areas.
Doctors are unique in that they already command a massive salary in most of the states that they work in, so they don't need this sort of subsidization to this extent.
However, building infrastructure, building bridges, building houses, really helping local people is far more difficult.
It's very difficult to have people who are trained to actually develop things in developing states using modern technology and infrastructure.
We think that increasing the amount of money in this market largely professionalizes the industry.
This means that there'll be more training to actually help people develop in these states.
Furthermore, we think as this sort of training is developed in the first place, as the opportunity to even learn how to build bridges in, say, uganda, occurs, you can also use that sort of money to train local people, improve their human capital and, in doing so, improve the long-term prospects of their economy and of all people's well-being.
My third and final argument is simply about the expansion of humanitarian aid.
Even if we don't professionalize it, even if we don't think that there's a desert claim for humanitarian aid workers, more humanitarian aid is a good thing.
Most states are incredibly worried about refugees in the status quo, and the response has been largely hateful and problematic.
We think that expanding humanitarian aid, reducing the need for refugees, makes all people happy and, largely, makes the world a better place.
For this reason, humanitarian aid should be subsidized.