We should limit campaign finance.
Although all campaigns require some amount of financing, the current state of american politics is reprehensible.
Private donors and organizations are able to essentially buy candidates due to our lackluster and largely unaccountable political system.
It is truly problematic when the individuals who have the most to gain from these sort of donations are also those defining the rules.
In order for us to reclaim our democracy and limit the harm that is currently being done due to terrible campaign finance laws, we must reform our policies.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that the maximum donation for any individual, on behalf of any organization, shall be one hundred thousand dollars.
This will require numerous regulations for individuals to get to this level.
That is to say, they cannot directly communicate with the candidate when they spend on things like campaign ads.
They're unable to use intermediaries or subcorporations in order to donate more money.
There'll be strict policies in place to guarantee they do not spend more than they're allowed to do.
For the average individual, the unregulated donation, ten thousand dollars will be the most.
Additionally, all politicians must reveal all donors with the amount that they spend, and they must order their donation sheet based on who spent the most.
That is to say, they cannot hide this information by putting out hundreds of thousands of donors with various amounts.
They must put the largest at the top.
Three arguments for why this will improve our democracy: first, quid pro quo is a harmful system.
First, what is quid pro quo?
It's the idea that if I spend money on a candidate, they will help me back.
It's tit for tat, I scratch your back, you scratch mine.
We see this all the time in american politics because for many individuals, the only way in which they can get elected is by having massive amounts of money.
They depend on private donors in order to get into the office in the first place.
As such, these private donors have incredible leverage over politicians.
They're able to dictate their policy.
This is incredibly problematic because it fundamentally undermines our democracy.
It makes it so our representatives do not represent the people but represent private corporations.
We will inevitably see, and already see, policies put in place due to quid pro quo that favor certain individuals and organizations and, ultimately, slow our economy and harm our people.
Implementing campaign finance is likely to decrease the amount of quid pro quo, first off, because individuals can't donate millions of dollars now to a campaign.
Second, though, if we see a politician consistently campaigning on behalf of cable lobbies, and we can also see that their five biggest owners are all cable corporations, we can hold them accountable and take them out of office far easier than we can in the status quo.
My second argument is that campaign finance laws in the status quo are anti-democratic.
We think that many elections are decided on by money.
The more money you have, the more ads you can run by yourself.
But additionally, with the advent of the internet, the more money you have, the more money you can spend to pay particular media personalities to promote you or have your opponent smeared by private firms like cambridge analytica, which can essentially guarantee you an election.
We think that money is deciding elections far too often and the true solution is to take money out of the equation.
My third and final argument is that politicians will spend less time fundraising.
In the status quo, upwards of sixty percent of a politician's time is spent fundraising, talking to donors, and trying to get more money.
This means that they cannot interact with the american people.
They cannot articulate their policies and allow individuals to get an informed opinion which allow them to vote effectively.
By reducing the amount of time they spend fundraising, we will ultimately empower the american people and make votes more meaningful.
So proud to propose.