I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end the affordable care act.
Although the affordable care act is far from perfect, ending coverage for millions of americans will put their lives at risk.
Ultimately, the affordable care act has been essential and expanding the insurance net, increasing special coverage, and disincentivizing bad behavior on behalf of many americans.
I have three arguments in today's debate, but a brief overview which ultimately refutes all of my opponents arguments.
My opponent says at the outset that the affordable care act does not do enough, that the few and far between legislation which pushes for a more liberal insurance state are ultimately ineffective in changing the policies for many americans.
I would agree that we should have a more aggressive approach to healthcare in the united states.
Unfortunately, ending the affordable care act does not introduce a system which is any more liberal or any more supportive of individuals in poverty.
Given the current political discourse and the administration, ending the affordable care act means that no new policies are adopted.
Instead ending the affordable care act would likely harm many states as the current administration has a political incentive to harm those states as they voted against them and would leave many individuals out to in the rain in terms of insurance.
With that in mind, I have three arguments.
My first is that the affordable care act increases the insurance net.
Insurance only works if the healthy pay for the sick, that is the entire nature of insurance.
Although it depends on a corporate mediator, individuals who are healthy continue to pay into the pot and individuals who are sick get their pay out through their insurance policy.
Now in the status quo, what was happening is that wealthy individuals were buying insurance on the cheap because they largely faced fewer health problems, took more proactive care of their health because they could afford doctor visits, and were able to afford other amenities which decrease their stress and ultimately made them more healthy.
Contrastly, people in poverty who had to work more and largely had more stress face considerably more health problems and as such either couldn't afford insurance or nearly had to break the bank just to get an insurance policy.
The affordable care act equalized the situation.
It combined many policies among the rich and the poor making it so all individuals pay into the pot rather than having a stratified health care system.
Ending the affordable care act would make it so niche of society would have to pay for their own health care for their own community the sick would pay a massive burden simply because they couldn't afford their own health care and because insurance companies could deny them their claims and the rich would simply be able to get an additional effective tax break as they didn't have to subsidize the entire healthcare system which we think they have a reciprocal obligation to do.
My second argument is about special coverage because the affordable care act requires the insurance companies to cover pre-existing conditions and reproductive rights.
Although my opponent is correct that this increases the cost of insurance, it ultimately makes it so people do not die if they have a pre-existing conditions.
We see in the status or we saw before the affordable care act that many insurance agencies passed repeated claims that certain conditions were pre-existing conditions despite the fact that they only existed after the insurance policy was taken.
This was because many individuals in poverty did not have the ability to fight the big insurance company and as such simply capitulated and got decreased money.
This ends the abuse of insurance companies by having the affordable care act in place.
Ultimately this will save lives and guarantee that people in poverty are not forced to live in a lifetime of debt simply because they had a disease at some point in their life.
For this reason I am so proud to oppose.
Thank you.