We should subsidize public service broadcasting.
Public service broadcasting allows individuals who would otherwise be denied information which is essential to democracy a way to access it incredibly easily through a variety of mediums including radio, podcasts and television.
Public service broadcasting provides information which is sorely needed in the modern day.
Because we think a variety of individuals are using lies and misinformation to their own political ends, we would say that public service broadcasting must be funded in the status quo.
With that in mind, we would support the following model that the united states should massively increase its funding towards public service broadcasting, increasing the total number of channels available, and increasing the total number of viewpoints expressed on those channels.
With that in mind, we have two arguments.
First, on government obligation and second, on journalism's pragmatic value in the modern world.
So on government obligation first, we think that governments have an obligation to democracy.
Why is this the case?
Governments are necessarily a result of democracy.
The only reason they have power is the will of the people and the resources of the people.
Each politician owes a debt to the individuals who voted them into power, their constituency, and the whole amalgamation of government that is to say the legislature, the executive branch, judicial branch, the military, all of them gain their income gain their resources, gain their power, from the actual faith and trust put in into them by the people.
As such, we believe there's a reciprocal obligation from the government to the people to guarantee that democracy is facilitated.
However, democracy can only be successful in a world in which individuals are educated.
If I do not know the policy positions of politicians, if I don't know what they've done in the past, I cannot vote them into power with good conscience.
I can not check against them nor compare them to one another.
We say that there is a inherent right to education in this regard in that we must promote education, promote information, to all individuals.
We would also say that there's a pragmatic benefit to this.
When you can check against individual scandals, when you can check against certain policies going out to the people, we think that this necessarily leads away from fascism and leads away from oppressive policies that would otherwise go by unnoticed until their horrific effects are felt by the people.
Secondly though, we think government has an obligation to facilitate education.
This is because education is itself a facilitative right.
What we mean by this is that when an individual's educated, they have access to democracy but also they have access to a better quality of life.
They have access to more speech rights.
They have access to more privacy rights and they're more able to articulate themselves in the marketplace of ideas.
If government has any economic obligations it is then to develop the human capital of its citizens.
If it has any political or social obligations, it is to allow individuals to live the best life possible.
Education necessarily does this because it allows individuals to use the limited resources, time, money, energy, in the most efficacious way possible and to understand all of the options available to them.
This brings me to my second argument how journalism necessarily increases the total amount of information in the world.
This is because public service broadcasters employ huge numbers of individuals typically reporters and investigators who can discover the truth even when is it is attempted to be hidden.
We believe the effect of this then, the subsidy of these individuals will necessarily uncover more scandals meaning that there's less oppressive policies going through.
It will allow for individuals to actually check against oppressive politicians, but it will also deter individuals who'd otherwise oppress the public.
Not every individual who would capitalize upon a easy situation in which they can gain power is a bad person.
We necessarily think then that public service broadcasters much put must push them away from those situations in which individual individuals would attempt to seize power.
Furthermore, we think there is simply too little discourse in the status quo and that discourse is largely based on political and private incentives they would otherwise be avoided through public service broadcasting.
For this reason, we should subsidize public service broadcasting.