I stand in firm opposition to the motion, criticism of science is justified.
What we've seen coming out of more conservative, more extremist bases is a denial of science.
That is to say, individuals take well-known, well-believed, well-proven ideologies and essentially dismiss them as being fundamentally false, without providing any meaningful evidence in the alternative.
To this end, we think that criticism of science has led to incredible health problems, incredible danger and, ultimately, is fundamentally just not justified.
What we mean in this debate is that criticism of science isn't just saying, " sometimes tests should be rerun ; sometimes someone ran a test improperly, " it is fundamentally challenging basic tenets of science and the agreements that scientists come to on a massive scale, that is the say, it is criticizing ideas and beliefs that eighty to ninety percent of the population agrees to.
It is criticizing these beliefs in a way that does not create change or does not try to push them in different direction, because if a criticism was meaningful and actually challenged these beliefs with a different perception and proof that something is wrong, it itself is science.
In this debate, we're only talking about the blind hatred of science that we see so often and far too often.
My first argument is that this criticism is fundamentally anti-intellectual.
Individuals are afraid of what they cannot understand.
In many cases, criticism of science stems from this idea.
We think that people who can't understand evolution simply dumb it down and are reductionist.
They hear, " we are essentially monkeys, we evolved from monkeys, " and become offended.
We think that people who honestly talk about the globe being flat are people who are fundamentally afraid of intellectuals and afraid of individuals who actually prove these ideas, who actually studied these ideas and worked years and years and years to understand the scientific system and to improve it by giving their own ideas to it.
Ultimately, this anti-intellectualism leads to a destruction of our understanding of the world, ultimately pushes scientists away from being able to explain these ideas, into a defense mode.
We think that global warming would be far easier to tackle if people agreed with it.
Ultimately, we think a lot of the opposition to global warming policies comes from people who just don't believe on it.
Scientists then have to spend their valuable time arguing for why it's actually real in the first place rather than proposing ideas and creating actual change.
My second argument is that the criticism of science is anti-progress.
We think that things like vaccinations are incredibly important and save thousands if not millions of lives around the world every single year.
The reason that criticism of them exists is because people can look back a hundred years and say, " , my ancestors survived, why is does this sort of progress matter? "
This fundamentally anti-progress idea pushes science back, pushes back in an incredibly problematic way.
Individuals who push these ideas simply do not understand what the effect is.
Not only that, we think that they distract from more meaningful debates.
A debate about autonomous cars taking away people's jobs is probably meaningful, but solutions exist, such as subsidies and jobs retraining programs, but inherently anti-progress ideology simply destroys the ability to have these policy discussions and distracts from far more important and far more essential ways in which we can tackle these sort of problems.
For this reason, criticism of science is not justified.