I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt open-source software.
Given the way that james models the motion, he suggests that governments and large corporations should adopt open-source software in their average daily operations.
This is incredibly problematic as open-source software is considerably less secure and the increase usage of open-source software leads to insolvency in many software markets in the long term.
Because we think that progress is best done through a market mechanism, we stand in firm opposition.
Two arguments.
First off is safety.
Now drew suggests that open-source software is actually more safe than closed-source software.
I want to first address the claims he makes before making some of my own.
He suggests that malicious code can be slipped into any program through closed-source software.
First off if you look at the contract between large corporations, governments, and software organizations, you'll see that they have an understanding of the code.
They have absolute disclosure of the source code of many of these companies.
What this means is that malicious code can't simply be slid into these closed-source software large corporations and government can always check if they're being scammed or if a code would if certain code would be malicious.
What's important is that open-source software is incredibly dangerous.
Now obfuscation is incredibly important to the software process.
It is important to hide your code to increase the safety of it.
Understanding the source code makes it considerably easier for hackers to find the best way into a particular system.
Knowing that there's a certain vulnerability that they forgot to update a certain line of code means that hackers can find ways into systems that they would never be able to access otherwise.
This is incredibly problematic having access to every single line of code will inevitably lead to increased identity theft, increased hacking, and generally less safety among the average individual.
This has the immediate effect of just economic loss.
We think crime is bad for the economy, it leads people having to dispute things on their credit card, leads to essentially theft and a loss of money from the taxpayer because identity theft is usually covered by the government.
Generally this will be bad for the world as at large but secondly a decrease in trust among the average consumer who sees more identity theft and the software corporations means that people move away from technology.
This is problematic as this makes the economy considerably less efficient and makes people less willing to adopt new technology which is the way that we get progress.
Things like GPS which literally tracks you location have also led to a massive increase in efficiency and a decrease in death as people know where they're going and understand the terrain considerably better.
We think that they should be adopting new technology and open-source actually harms us.
My second argument is about efficiency.
We believe that open-source software is considerably less efficient as there's less money for good software.
People acting of their own accord, acting with no money behind them, does not lead to the best software possible.
Market incentives means that rather than code or and programs being designed for the programmer, they're designed for the average consumer.
We think this is the best way to have an efficient market and the best software possible.
Additionally there are fewer knowledge bases for open-source software particularly knowledge bases that cater to the average consumer, they usually cater to programmers.
This is problematic as it makes it so people cannot use software like microsoft word which they would otherwise use on a daily basis for their business.
The third argument is that there will be a long term down a long term downturn in the amount of software overall.
Open-source software relies on the infrastructure from a closed-source software overall.
Java created by oracle is important for a huge number of programs.
We think that flash player and other plugins are important and were all created by close-source corporations.
The destruction of these foundation means that technology cannot adapt and progress in the future.
As such, I stand in opposition to the motion we should adopt open-source software.