We should ban trans fat usage in food.
When countries around the world and when cities in the united states have banned trans fat and have got healthier citizens it is very clear that we should follow their example.
When companies use destructive ingredients to pad their bottom line government must step in.
With that in mind we propose the following model: that all western liberal democracies should ban the usage of trans fats in food.
We have two arguments to support this motion: first on government obligation.
I'm first going to to discuss why there is a right to ban trans fat usage and secondly why it will be beneficial.
The right is fairly clear.
Governments around the world have maintained and protected food supplies.
The food and drug administration have established a precedent for the control of food and the exclusion of dangerous or otherwise harmful ingredients.
It is very easy to put this sort of plan in action when these organizations take a clear stance and tell companies that they cannot use trans fats in their food.
Secondly the government is the only actor with a meaningful say in this case.
Companies can hide the usage of trans fats very easily.
It's very rare that a consumer will check every single label to determine if a particular ingredient is in the food and are very unlikely to go through the entire list of ingredients, many of which have complicated names.
As such consumers can never avoid these trans fats or make a a meaningful choice between a company which uses or excludes trans fats.
Additionally consumers routinely have very few choices when it comes to trans fats.
Typically every single company in a particular market use trans fats because consumers are unaware of it and it it will taste better for individuals who are not actually conscious of it being there.
As such choice is very rare and consumers are largely unaware of which products have it.
Now on why government should ban it: the use of trans fats is wholly unnecessary and is massively unhealthy.
When individuals eat trans fats they are far more likely to get things like heart disease or diabetes.
This increases healthcare costs and obligation on the people and the government and society as a whole is harmed.
Particularly in states with single payer healthcare, it is unfair and unjust for individuals to use the system and to consume these items at the harm of everyone else in society.
Additionally as individuals become more unhealthy there are longer waits at hospitals and other medical providers and as such there's massive externalities to the people in the state.
The second argument is that consumers are harmed.
Consumers largely don't know the effect of trans fats.
It's very difficult to visualize what eating a small amount of trans fats will do but it adds up to lead to massive amounts of disease.
As I discussed earlier there heart disease and diabetes are a massively caused by trans fats.
Heart disease is a leading killer in the united states.
When individuals are harmed there are huge externalities as their families grieve and society at large loses a number citizen.
We would also say that's very clear that these individuals will have a worse life.
If individuals cannot get outside, feel unhealthy, suffer from debilitating disease, even if they don't die or use up the healthcare system, he will live a worse life.
It is also very clear that when there are small externalities but a major quality of life increase, government can step in.
Smoking bans show that these quality of life bans are usually helpful for society and as such we should ban trans fat usage in food.
Thank you.