We should fight for tibetan independence.
For too long the tibetan people have languished under the oppressive policies of the chinese government.
Whether those policies have been religious in nature such as removing the dalai lama from the state and otherwise collapsing an infrastructure which has provided religious autonomy and freedom for thousands of years or if those policies have been inherently oppressive such as instituting martial law when individuals attempted to express themselves and otherwise policing individuals in ways that are fundamentally unjust china has been abusive across the board.
Despite a myriad of efforts taken by citizens of the state in which they have reached out to individuals to donate and otherwise raise awareness the chinese government has gotten away with their oppressive policies for far too long.
With that in mind, we would support the following model, that the international community put immediate sanctions on the chinese government at all levels fundamentally targeting their industries particularly manufacturing to guarantee that they change their policies as soon as possible.
I have three arguments: first on religious freedom, second on autocratic policies essentially what the chinese government has done in the past, and third on setting a precedent.
But first I want to discuss why this will work.
We believe that china wants to be accepted by the whole of the world.
It has attempted to spread its soft power as much as possible and has used its investments to actually guarantee that it has resource power going into the future.
That is to say they have invested massive amounts into their own future.
If the international community turns their back on china until they change their policies fundamentally attacks those same investments in which they have used to actually invest in their future, they will change immediately.
Tibet is of little value to china compared to its global economic hegemony and its positive relations with much with much of the world.
As such they will immediately change their tune once the international community steps at.
First some my first argument is about religious freedom.
China has been incredibly oppressive for towards the tibetan people.
It has pushed the fourteenth dalai lama out of the state and has kidnapped in the essential religious figures who would place a new dalai lama into power once the fourteenth dalai lama dies.
In doing so it has denied thousands upon thousands of people their own religion.
It has attacked them at their spiritual core and has been incredibly rights violative.
We believe that the international community as the only actor who can check china must guarantee these individuals their rights.
China along with much of the states in the UN have signed the UN declaration of rights which guarantees individuals religious freedom and guarantees them some ability to express themselves.
Because of this western states and the UN writ large must step in to fight against china's oppressive policies and guarantee individuals can access rights.
My second argument is about the autocratic policies of china, because we believe that china has passed numerous autocratic policies which has denied the people of taiwan economic and political freedom.
Because of this they cannot articulate their rights, because of this they hartsuff actualize and as a result we believe that they're living considerably worse lives than they would be otherwise.
In the same way that a government who is taking rights away reciprocal obligation to fix these things because the international community has continued to rely upon china's economic dominance and even profit from it, it has an obligation to undo those same harms which china has put into place.
We have put them into power and with that power they have abused and as such he must undo that abuse.
Third and finally on setting a precedent, we believe that the UN must demonstrate clearly that being an abusive state towards smaller states is unacceptable that doing so will get you removed from your seat of power and as such we will respect the rights of people going into the future.
Because of this we should fight for tibetan independence.