We should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.
I'm first going to clarify what we mean by a zero tolerance policy such that the speech can be as clear as possible.
We're going to model this motion as there should be a zero tolerance policy in schools for guns.
When guns are weapons and nothing more, it is very clear that they have no place in an educational environment.
When students feel unsafe or when students are distracted by the presence of guns it is inevitable that their education will suffer.
With that in mind, two arguments for why we should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools, regarding guns: first is safety.
Quite simply, more guns means more opportunities for their use.
Most crimes, particularly violent crimes, are not premeditated.
They are the result of fits of anger or fits of a motion which cause individuals to harm one another.
Having guns in in an environment where people will be inevitably bullied, regretfully, and also very stressed about their grades and their social standing, is a recipe for danger.
Particularly around teenagers who are suffering with puberty and experiencing mood swings and understanding what is or is not moral, the presence of guns will inevitably lead to their usage which is awful for the school system writ large.
Additionally, when guns are in this sort of area they're far more rife for theft.
We think that the ability to track guns is essential for the prevention of their usage and the saving of lives, so as such theft of guns is an awful reality which we will face without a zero tolerance policy.
Finally in the event of a shooting, it is bad to have guns in this environment.
First, it is takes longer to lock down the school.
When someone walks into the school with a pistol, you can't lock down the school immediately if you don't have a zero tolerance policy, which says this is unacceptable.
In a world without this policy, a student can walk in but you won't actually take precautionary measures until they start firing.
This is bad.
Secondly, crossfires lead to far greater casualties and death.
Students are not the best shots.
But even if they were trained professionals, firing at one another will always make it more will always lead to innocent individuals getting harmed.
But furthermore, when there are a lot of students with guns it is difficult to determine who a school shooter is, and as such individuals who are trying to prevent more harm could get shot.
Third and finally, it is harder for cops to stop these sort of incidents.
When there are many people with guns and many people firing, cops cannot take drastic or immediate action until they determine who the culprit is.
With more guns in the area, there'll be more violence.
The increased opportunities for the usage of guns and the increased intensity of school shootings will make students less likely to learn because they'll feel unsafe but also, this leads to more loss of life.
The second argument is that guns are used as unjust speech.
There are always alternative to the usage of guns, such as telling an individual what you want or honestly threatening someone.
However, school administrators can step in to actually stop individuals from threatening one another.
Guns can be used to silence individuals particularly in conservative areas.
This has already occurred where on days of pride, that is gay pride, students have brought guns and to show a sort of opposition.
Without a zero tolerance policy, saying this is never okay, the implicit statement of the gun is essentially threatening the students queer students with violence.
This distracts students and makes it far more difficult for them to learn.
Ultimately the purpose of school is to learn so the usage of these guns is just bad overall.
For this reason we should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.