We should fight for palestinian independence.
First far too long the people of palestine have lived in general squalor and oppression.
It is unclear whether the israeli government had a desserts claim to jerusalem, it is unclear about whether the current organizational structure within israel is inherently just, but it is truly obvious is incredibly clear that the average palestinian citizen someone who never willfully consented to the government of israel who never willfully consented to the power of hamas could ever be truly said to be deserving of the harm that's been done against them.
Generally we would say that a people who have been oppressed for this long, who have been disenfranchised for this long, deserve some sort of restitution and reparations from the world in order to provide them this sort of independence.
I'm going to first talk about how this deescalates tensions and empowers palestinian citizens, but second talk about how this is a form of reparations and restitution.
But first just a brief overview.
Why will israel capitulate to the demands of the world governments were they to put pressure on them?
We would say that israel wants western support.
A massive amount of israel's budget, of their power, comes from their support from jews around the world.
Not just that, but governments around the world who respect the right of israel to control particular areas or have military alliances.
Were governments around the world to put pressure on israel to effectively say that they must change, israel would respond.
It is best for israeli citizens for them to respond and israel would lose incredibly little in the comparative were they to actually respect the demands of governments around the world.
This leads me to my first argument about this leads to a deescalation in tension.
Why is this the case?
First we think that isreal largely will pull back settlers, will pull back military individuals who are currently in the west bank and the gaza strip.
These individuals make people nervous, these individuals are prone for mistakes.
Literally any military operative has a greater chance of causing violence if they are in an active combat zone than if they are not.
This is true of the US military, the indian military, and obviously at the israeli military as well.
The decrease an accidental violence, the decrease on misfires and skirmishes that are wholly unnecessary is just a immediate decrease in violence which we think is justifies this kind of action.
But secondly we think that palestinian independence will largely lead to greater personal accountability and the ousting of hamas.
Why is this the case?
First we think that hamas is largely response to violent tendencies in israel as well.
The hydra effect is well and true within the arab-israeli conflict overall.
We think that every time you kill a member of hamas, you kill a brother sister father son mother daughter.
As such, simply pulling out of the area decreases the total support and need for hamas in the first place.
Secondly though we think that post-revolution violent individuals are largely ousted.
There's no incentive to put them into governments and as such largely peaceful organizations will take power in palestine were palestine to get its independence.
My second argument is about reparations and restitution.
Regardless of your opinion about who was there first, about the current organization, we think that palestinian citizens have no state in the status quo.
The state has been collapsed by the west, they've been betrayed and oppressed by the west overall.
Going back to history, through history and the british mandate, we see that the western states have clearly preferred other actors to palestinians.
There's a right to self determination, there's a right to give them certain powers even if it's generally not good.
We think that generally not pragmatically good that is, we think that it would be unjust for the US to say annex mexico simply because the US thinks they could do a better job.
In the same vein, we ought to respect palestinian independence.
For this reason, we should fight for palestinian independence.