Holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
The holocaust is the most tragic event in human history.
It took the power and efficiency of the german government and turned it towards evil.
At its core it was an attempt to eradicate an entire people.
At the very least it requires a understanding to of the holocaust to understand much of the geopolitical efforts over the last fifty to seventy years.
What we mean by this is that the holocaust had profound effects in all sorts of arenas and affected many geopolitical conflicts for years to come.
Holocaust denial denies the catharsis and the existence of many individuals who died at the hands of the nazis and as such it is inherently violent.
Because of this we support the following model: that holocaust denial in any form should be a criminal offense.
This is not to say that academically questioning particular facts surrounding the holocaust should be banned, but any attempt to outright deny that it that a coordinated attempt to exterminate an entire race of people occurred, ought be punished.
First, violations would be met with a fine, a small fine at the beginning which generally gets larger and can lead to jail time through continued abuse.
We think this is a just punishment as small instances of holocaust denial can lead to problematic things in the long term, but repeated instances of holocaust denial are largely correlated with violence against jewish people or other hate crimes from extremist individuals.
I have one overview before two arguments.
My overview is when when speech can be restricted, my opponents going to come up here and say speech can only be restricted in some niche and uncommon scenario, this is generally untrue.
We think that speech can be restricted based on the utility of the whole nation.
We would say that when salesmen lie to their customers they can be punished, we would say that when someone pushes someone else to commit a crime they can be punished.
As such we see that government already repeatedly bans particular speech based on the utility it provides to people.
If we can prove that holocaust denial provides no meaningful utility, we would say that government is justified in banning it.
Now my first argument is that holocaust denial leads to a culture of anti-semitism.
Much of anti-semitism is rooted in the idea that the jewish people have been orchestrating particular actions throughout history or otherwise been controlling public spheres in the background or shadows, throughout history.
Holocaust denial is a key strategy and key contributor to this culture.
The idea that the holocaust was staged or that the jewish people convinced the entirety of the world to create an event as atrocious as the holocaust suggests that the jewish people fit into this anti-semitic stereotype.
It justifies a lot of the violence that individuals take against jewish people: the destruction of synagogues the attacking of people simply because of their facial features, and as such we think the government must take preemptive action to ban holocaust denial in order to prevent this culture of anti-semitism from occurring.
We would say that a festering community might be created when individuals deny the holocaust in private, but we think the fact that many forums on the internet or many groups outright deny the holocaust leads to a spreading of this idea and generally is far worse for society.
Now my second argument is that there are direct harms from holocaust denial, it leads to trauma of many jewish people, there are still holocaust survivors today, and denying that it exists denies a huge portion of their life and probably the most traumatic event in their entire life.
It is effectively violence as it tells people that their history, their culture sometimes even their purpose, does not exist or does not matter.
As such holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.