We should ban boxing.
Unlike many other extreme sports, boxing is very very old.
As such, is ingrained in the american conscience.
Many people do not understand the risks and repercussions of boxing due to historical prevalence and as such they suffer immense harms due to this ignorance.
Because we believe that boxing is incredibly problematic, we would say that the united states should ban boxing.
As a brief model, obviously as I already stated this will be in the united states and if people are caught boxing they will be charged with essentially assault or battery.
It will be treated as two individuals who have decided to fight one another.
Presumably it will be the lowest charge of assault, essentially a misdemeanor that can be brought off of your criminal record and comes with a small fine but it will be treated as assault.
As a brief overview I want to discuss government's role in sports and generally policy making.
There are two goals that the government must have.
First it must ensure that individuals consent to their own actions.
It doesn't matter if a particular action helps them or hurts them, unless there are immense benefits to a particular action, individuals must consent to that action who believe that if someone were to come and paint your house if they painted a nice color you ought have recourse against them if you do not meaningfully consent.
Secondly the government's goal is to maximize utility.
If a particular act is bad for the average person, hurts the whole society, governments ought ban it.
Two arguments.
First, individuals cannot consent to the danger of boxing.
As I discussed boxing is ingrained in the american conscience is very historically prevalent.
Many individuals engaged in boxing but few understand the harms which actually come from boxing.
Now boxing is incredibly problematic as it has introduced equipment which makes it seem more safe but actually causes more harm.
The introduction of introduction of the boxing glove into boxing allows for higher velocity hits to your opponent's head.
What this causes is long term concussions.
It causes individuals to have these sort of concussions and as such they get long term headaches, they have trouble focusing, they typically suffer from mood swings and are unable to actually engage with the world properly.
Additionally, many individuals who box end up being unable to essentially work effective jobs in the long term.
This is problematic for the average person as they didn't consent to the harms of boxing because there's misinformation out there and that a number of narratives prevent them from finding proper information but for celebrities this can lead them to poverty.
Combined with the culture of drug use and overindulgence, boxers will inevitably end up spending a huge amount of their money and have no way to get more money as they're essentially left nearly vegetative due to a number of concussions.
Secondly we think it's utile tto ban boxing.
We think it leads to a less violent society.
We think that people who watch boxing are likely to find inspiration from it and are likely to fight one another.
But secondly we think it leads to less popularity of boxing as an exercise.
Many people do say boxing to essentially burn calories they do it in college and end up disfigured with cauliflower-ear, concussions.
We think that taking it completely out of the american conscience is a great way to actually stop boxing.
Additionally think it is easy for individuals to ban boxing for governments to ban boxing given that individuals are unlikely to partake in it in in exercise since it's banned and there are a new number of alternatives which they can turn to in any situation which will continue to be legal if they want to engage in in an extreme sport.
As such, we should ban boxing.