We should subsidize massive open online courses.
The expansion of the internet has massively increased the access to information around the world.
Unfortunately, higher level information, which is essential to operate in the twenty first century in both a public sphere and in a private job base sphere, has largely been restricted.
Pay walls to get to academic papers, universities who refuse to teach classes without massive fees, and a variety of other restrictive tactics have made it incredibly difficult for people around the world to learn these important skills.
Luckily, the introduction of massive open online courses has allowed people in poverty and individuals simply testing the waters in a particular field to access this information at very, very little cost.
I have two arguments for why we should subsidize massive open online courses but first I would like to model this motion and define some of the terms.
Massive open online courses are those courses which have incredibly few restrictions.
They are largely free, sometimes they cost maybe five to ten dollars at the most, they allow a limitless class size and interactive assignments which students can take part in not just lectures.
We would model today's debate by saying that all states, all western liberal democracies, should massively subsidize these massive open online courses.
Paying the entirety of the teaching fees for the the professor and subsidizing the platform for hosting these massive open online courses.
Now my first argument for why these are so important is access.
Many individuals simply do not have the ability to access the information which would allow them to raise themselves out of poverty or otherwise get a high paying job.
People around the world simply do not have enough money to go to a university.
They can't spend the money on transportation let alone tuition.
Luckily, massive open online courses allow individuals to learn things without having to pay this massive cost.
Additionally, many individuals live in isolation.
Even if they are a fairly wealthy person, if they live in a place where there are no universities anywhere near them but their family would still like them be them to be nearby, particularly women in states which otherwise restrict them from leaving their families, massive open online courses allow them to access this kind of information without having to leave their home or the people around them.
This has a few major effects: first, it increases innovation.
All states would like to increase innovation first off because if the innovation occurs within their borders they increase their tax dollars and generally are able to market this far better to the world over all.
But even if this innovation is occurring across borders and different states that access this sort these sort of courses the fact that more innovation is happening happening increases the quality of life of people within the state fulfilling the state's obligation.
Additionally, this sort of high quality, massive open online course which can only be accessible through subsidization increases the quality massively, equalizing education around the world.
Now my second argument for why we should subsidize massive open online courses is it allows for better archiving.
Much of the knowledge which is released in these massive open online courses are stored on on large servers or on sites which otherwise keep them.
This is important because the more courses that we allow to get on to these sites, the more we subsidize them, the more information is archived.
Additionally as we subsidize the platforms for massive open online courses they have more server space and greater ability to store these things for archiving.
The ability to access knowledge into the future cheaply, efficiently, allows for many organizations to work more efficiently and increases the ability for knowledge moving forward and study of past generations.
For this reason I am so proud to support this motion.