I stand in firm opposition to the motion that we should make assisted suicide a criminal offense.
Assisted suicide is the ultimate act of mercy.
When doctors accept that they're willing to allow individuals to take their own lives when they are suffering massively, when they're very identity is draining from their bodies through the things like alzheimer's and dementia, we must allow assisted suicide to continue in order to allow individuals to end their suffering and their lives humanely and to also prevent individuals from trying to take their own lives.
Assisted suicide is not doctors going around murdering patients.
It is not them taking their lives simply because they feel like it or simply because the patient is sad.
Assisted suicide only occurs in cases with the very, very old, the people who are suffering on a day-to-day basis as their body decays within them, or in cases where individuals are so catatonically depressed that were they not to get assisted suicide, they would take their own lives.
Because we think assisted suicide is an essential part of our fabric, an essential thing which doctors must be able to conduct, we would say that assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
I have two arguments in today's debate, but I would first like to do a little bit of rebuttal.
My opponent's case rests upon the idea that this will signal to other individuals that they can take their own lives, that essentially giving it legal standing is inherently problematic.
First, I'd like to give you a couple examples of where giving legal standing to a particular act did not make the criminal version of that act more likely.
First off is animals and putting them down.
It is clearly illegal for someone to go into your house and shoot your dog.
However, when the animal's suffering and when the owner gives consent to take that animal's life, that is when the doctor is able to put them down.
This does not diminish the standing of animals in our society.
It has simply made it so we can end their suffering humanely.
The second example is that we pull people off life support in the status quo.
When someone is essentially brain dead, when they have no ability to recover, when the cancer is so aggressive that they will die no matter what, we pull them off life support and allow them to die.
This is no different than the supposed murder which is assisted suicide and must be allowed to continue to end individual suffering.
Finally, just on the idea of this argument, we would say it's inherently absurd.
Because individuals who are thinking of taking their own lives, who are so depressed that they would kill themselves, do not consider government action when they're trying to decide what to do.
If suicide is already illegal in the vast majority of states, so there's already a clear signal they should not do it.
My first argument, though, is about suffering.
Individuals who suffer massively, who are literally no longer the individual they were before, would like to die humanely.
It is incredibly sad for an individual to waste away in a hospital bed feeling nothing but pain and essentially forgetting who they are.
Allowing doctors to take their lives ultimately decreases the total suffering in the world.
It decreases the suffering of the patient who would like to take their own lives and would probably do it another way if given the opportunity.
It decreases the suffering of the hospital and the the staff as they don't need to literally watch someone die and feel pain every single day.
This is literally the most humane action and as such, it must be legal.
Now my second argument is that this will actually prevent individual action like suicide.
If we give people the option of going to an office, talking with someone about whether they'd truly like to take their lives, they're less likely to do it.
Most acts of suicide are rash actions.
They occur in response to a massive financial burden or occur after years of depression but then a single action triggers it.
If they are forced to go into an office or at least far more likely to go into an office to take their own lives, have to do a psychological evaluation to ensure they're sound of mind, they'll probably rethink their actions and ultimately take their life less.
If we're trying to save the most life possible, then we clearly need to allow assisted suicide.
Thank you.