I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize student loans.
Although student loans are usually a tool used for good, we think that a one hundred percent subsidization, or near one hundred percent subsidization, would largely bankrupt many state governments and make the entire organization of college less effective.
Unfortunately, when you give individuals who are purchasing a good the ability to shirk responsibility for paying for that good, there are profound externalities which I will outline in my arguments, but first I want to do some brief rebuttal.
My opponent talks at length to the right to education.
We think that individuals have a right to education insofar as that education teaches them basic things.
When education is used for a very specialized subject, it is unclear why individuals have access to it.
We provide education up through about eighth grade that is to say basic history, english, and math because there is a right to these sort of things.
It's the only way individuals can engage with the world politically and efficaciously,but honestly education through high school is only really done because there is a pragmatic benefit to society.
We don't think there's any affirmative right to these things insofar as someone can engage politically, can read articles, can learn after just an eighth grade education extending it all the way to college is a gross mischaracterization of the rights belonging to individuals.
We think that if you destroy the bright line which currently exists between high school and college, there's no reason someone shouldn't be allowed to be a lifelong learner why that shouldn't just be their profession because they have a right to this education.
Clearly this is absurd and clearly this is not what we should do and as such there's no absolute right to education.
My first offensive argument then is that the price of college will go up if you subsidize these sort of things.
Why is the case?
If the individual who is consuming a good is not paying for that good, they will demand higher quality regardless of the cost.
What we're going to see then is that colleges will have to compete for students still but the students will not be deciding just based on cost but they'll just be deciding by what the university has to offer.
As such they will jack up tuition tens of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of dollars, to attract more individuals to go to that college to collect that subsidized student loan financial aid money and then we think that they will largely waste it on athletics, wasted on new cafeterias and new areas.
There although a basic access to shelter and food are important for college, it's unclear why all these amenities are necessary.
Additionally this money is fungible.
Ten more million dollars more going to sports teams at public universities is money that could go to other education or could go to health care in states.
As such this will largely drain the budgets of government and largely undermine the ability for government to effectively legislate the areas that they're in control of.
My second argument then is that college education is less valuable if more people have it.
This is unfortunate but simply the truth.
If we have a hundred thousand english majors, there are simply not enough university jobs to go to these individuals, there's not enough writing jobs to go to these people.
As printing presses die, as written media is largely less valued, these sort of jobs still attract majors but we generally think that people will flood the job market in these fields.
As such wages will be depressed and people will largely be unable to use their degrees effectively as a result of this kind of policy.
We need low skilled labor to be an effective economy.
My third argument is about how people make worse educational decisions.
If I'm going to college for free, I might just study film and then music and then art taking eight whole years to finish my degree.
However, individuals are far more likely to make practical decisions based on their interests.
They can still study music, art, and film if that's truly their passion and they want to spend their whole lives doing it but now we impose some cost so individuals who don't have that passion will still pursue things that are more pragmatically beneficial to them.
This is the best way that we can organize these sort of educational opportunities.
For this reason we should not subsidize student loans.