We should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
Much of the media created in the modern world is marketed towards minors.
They have profound ability over their parents to get them to buy certain goods.
They can say what they want for christmas, for their birthday, and particularly wealthier children are able to convince their parents to buy them a variety of things.
What this means is that marketers will do whatever possible to attract the attention of children.
Violent video games are particularly pernicious given that it is incredibly difficult for parents to check what is inside them.
Unlike movies where there are ample reviews and parents can watch them themselves or television shows, getting through a video game requires hours and hours of commitment which most parents simply do not have.
As such, we think is a a unique problem.
It would support the following model.
That all violent video games be banned the sale of violent video games be banned in the sale to minors, that this be treated in so much the same way as alcohol were if a minor tries to buy a violent video game they're not charged unless it is an extreme case and generally parents must buy these games for children if they want them.
Two arguments to support this.
First off on parental control.
We allow parents to control what media children consume because we think that they're the best arbiter of that parent of that child's good.
Bureaucrats sitting at desks, marketers trying to get as much money as possible, neither of these actors are actually effective in making a child's life as good as possible.
The only or very few actors have the best interest of the child in mind and parents are the only actor equipped to control what these children say or consume.
Given that, we would say that parents ought to have the final say on whether or not children have access to these violent video games.
Children will have to convince their parents to get a violent video game for them if they want them allowing an additional safeguard for parents who want to protect their children from this content.
Furthermore, we would say that undermining the control of parent is also incredibly problematic.
Even if my opponents can show that parents do not always have the best interest of their child at heart we would say that ripping this control from parents, preventing them from having the final say in what their child consumes breeds resentment both among parents and children and makes parents generally oppose these media industries in general.
This is where we see the more restrictive policies pass for violent video games or outright banned or otherwise problematic policies are taken when more lenient policies like this could be adopted.
My second argument is that this harms children.
Violent video games set an example for children that they are going to follow.
They glamorize gun use, drug use, harming people.
Generally the most popular violent video games are the ones which allow the most mayhem.
Grand theft auto allows you to run people down on the street, tells you that you can gun down crowds with little to no repercussions and this is incredibly problematic.
We would also say that violent video games generally have a high correlation with other problematic content things like drug use, sexual content are also packaged along with violent video games as violent video games are generally a catchall for all sorts of problematic norms.
Children are incredibly impressionable and as they are exposed to these ideas and this type of medium they will likely find inspiration in it causing harms for themselves and those around them.
As such, we should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.