Since nine eleven many individuals have been afraid of muslims particularly in airports.
This has lead to profound abuses of them in the political sphere.
We would say that while racial profiling has largely led to a increase in anti-muslim sentiment, the use of racial profiling in airports can have profound benefits to make people feel more safe and also decrease stigma throughout the united states.
As such, we would say that we should increase airport racial profiling.
We have two independent arguments to support this motion.
First is the idea of security theater.
All airport security is simply to make people feel more safe.
In the same way that locks can easily be broken but provide security to the people, or the sense of security to the people who use the locks, and a sense of dis-security to people who might attempt to break into the places that are locked, airport security provides little more than the feeling of safety.
The TSA is unable and unwilling to use the most effective means to stop bombs and other weapons from getting through airports.
There have been numerous reports that state that the TSA is ineffective in finding weapons in bags, or bombs which could potentially be smuggled onto airplanes.
However, it makes people feel more safe.
When they see the TSA they believe that's less likely that a terrorist will be on their plane.
And this is actually somewhat true.
When a terrorist thinks that the TSA is effective, or more likely to search them, they're less likely to take terrorist actions.
If individuals who belong to extremist organizations feel like they're more likely to be targeted, we think that they're less likely to attempt terrorist activities and this could easily save lives.
Furthermore, even if this doesn't stop a single bomb, if people feel safer in airports they're more likely to use airplanes, they're also just more likely to be happy on the day to day basis.
We think that individuals should not feel anxious or or feel threatened by terrorism in these sort of airports, and if increasing racial profiling assuages these fears, we ought increase racial profiling in airports in the united states.
The second argument is that this is preferable to alternatives, particularly other political action.
Things like the travel ban have been justified due to a claim that increased security is necessary to stop islamic extremists in the united states.
However if we can check individuals at the gate, if we can ensure they have no criminal record as we search most individuals from these nations, or from a particular religion.
As we increase racial profiling the inevitable result is that there will be a decrease in political action and a decrease in the mandate for actions against these individuals in other theaters.
This means things like the travel ban are less likely to be adopted, when which we believe are far more pernicious.
Yes, we think racial profiling can be repungent and can make people feel less safe when they go through airports.
However, any harms that come in the airport are fundamentally temporary.
Yes, it sucks to be searched, however if you are fundamentally banned from the united states or are a victim of hate crimes as people feel less safe and take their anger out against you, we believe that is a far greater rights violation.
Because there are racist individuals and because there are paranoid individuals in the united states, it is imperative that we assuage these fears lest they vote for individuals or support political incentives for harming racial minorities throughout the united states.
For both of these reasons we are so proud to support the motion.
Thank you.