We should abolish zoos, because putting any living thing in a massive concrete cage is inherently immoral.
We would say, that any zoos which currently exist should be abolished, and that all animals should be rehabilitated in animal sanctuaries, with the ultimate goal to put the animals or their offspring back into nature, when experts have deemed them ready and prepared for life outside of a zoo.
I'm going to separate the speech into three categories: first, an overview, where I discuss the reality of zoos, and then two arguments for why animal rights exist.
Now, the reality of zoos makes it very clear, that animal should not be kept there.
Animals are put in small cages, to be gawked at by individuals, with very little respect for their health and safety, and they're consistently regulated by the owners of the zoo.
Even in cases where large animals have a small space to run around in, it is never enough for the animals to feel healthy or happy.
When you see animals in a zoo, they are typically grayer than animals in nature, sadder, and generally have less energy and happiness.
This means, that if we can prove that animals have any right to happiness, to mitigated suffering, to some level of freedom, we believe that zoo should be abolished.
Now the the first reason animal rights exist, and that zoos should be abolished, is the idea of sentience.
Animals can suffer.
It is very clear that when you step on your cat's tail, it is unhappy.
It is clear when animals fight, that they feel anger, happiness, sadness, and generally do not like pain or captivity.
Many animals can also do high level processing.
Crows and pigs have been proven to be able to solve puzzles and mazes, in ways that are far above that of like a human baby.
Now, we need to establish some sort of bright line, or at least agree that a bright line exists, which would put animals into the category, where they have some level of rights.
As I've already discussed, pigs are usually smarter than a baby, and even smarter than some adults, if you've met many of them.
What this means is that we are simply using an arbitrary metric to give living things rights.
We only give things rights, due to their relation to humans.
But not even humans that are intelligent, or humans which are good for society, or the world writ large, simply the fact that they are humans, which once again is wholly arbitrary.
It is unclear why we give pets so many rights, where we protect them by law, but force some animals into these zoos, which are horrible for their quality of life.
Even if they do not deserve total freedom, it is clear that the reality of zoos is inhumane, and that animals should not be kept there.
Now, the second argument, for why animal rights exist, is that life has inherent value.
It is unclear why things which can feel pain, which can understand each other, which can create communities, do not deserve some sort of consideration.
When animals can when elephants can create tribes, which can communicate with humans in certain cases, when they can live for thousands of years free, without human interaction, it is clear that they that they have some claim to the world, and that they ought to be protected in that claim.
When we put these animals in the zoo, we say that their life has no meaning whatsoever, and that they do not deserve to be out in this earth.
To truly repair our relationship with nature, and understand that we do not have total control, it is imperative that we actually protect the animals in zoos, by letting them out.
As such, we should abolish zoos.