We should adopt multiculturalism.
Multiculturalism is the appreciation and respect for a variety of cultures within a single state.
We do not think that any particular culture has claims to the welfare and well being of a state, as every state in our newly globalized world depends on one another to actually survive and prosper.
We believe that putting a single culture above all others and forcing individuals to assimilate or be removed from the state ultimately is oppressive and removes the ability for the state to improve meaningfully.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that all states -duce the total amount of money and total amount of policy which goes to promote a single culture and instead invest in cultures in general.
Three arguments for why this is good: first is innovation.
We believe that if we can prove that multiculturalism is good for the individuals of the dominant culture then there's no reason not to adopt it.
Why do we think it is good for society and good for the economy?
Individuals from a variety of cultures have different lived experiences.
They different cultural understandings and different cultural practices.
In terms of the service industry this means that individuals can provide different forms of service, different forms of massage, hotels, food, which would otherwise be inaccessible by individuals of the dominant culture.
We generally think that a marketplace of diverse options is preferable to homogeneous societies where you don't have a meaningful choice between a variety of places.
So first we think this'll this will improve the well being of individuals.
But secondly, innovation is based upon the lived experiences.
It is based on the experiences you've had and the education you had as well.
Because different cultures educate individuals differently, and provide different lived experiences, we believe that multiculturalism generally leads to a greater amount of innovation.
If I can be an active discourse with people of the variety of cultures, I am far more likely to learn from them and be able to innovate meaningfully.
If there's a particular kind of tool that is not used in my culture but is used in other cultures very prominently I can then use that tool to actually improve my quality of life.
As such we think this will lead to a better quality of life for all individuals and it's clear that we should adopt multiculturalism.
Now my second argument is just about the the right to respect.
Why individuals have a right to articulate their own culture and be respected for it.
We believe that individuals are only meaningfully empowered if they can follow what they believe is the good life.
By adopting multiculturalism and allowing all individuals to actually follow their culture we allow individuals to define and pursue their definition of the good life.
This is always preferable to a state enforced or community enforced idea of the good life where individuals are forced to actually fight for things they don't truly believe in, and to waste their time and money on objects that provide them incredibly little benefit.
Because we think that all individuals contribute to a state, whether it is direct or indirect through whether it's taxes our trade, we think that individuals have a right to actually articulate themselves and have power in every single state.
My third argument is about egalitarianism.
Because we believe that adopting multiculturalism on a domestic level will inherently lead to greater rights respect on an international level as well.
Why is this the case?
As individuals adopt multiculturalism more ideas can get to places of power.
This is both economic as individuals can start new businesses and get more money, but additionally they're more likely to get votes in the political sphere.
Because if I am, say a muslim in a christian society, that will not inherently disqualify me from office.
We believe that as more diverse people get into power they're more likely to push for egalitarian policy.
This will help the poor this will help individuals of a variety of different creeds, but it will also help the global poor.
That is to say, it'll put money towards developing states.
These are the states that have largely been attacked and exploited by the larger states, and as such we believe there's a reciprocal obligation to fend to help them and help them continue to prosper.
For this reason we should adopt multiculturalism.