We should increase wealth redistribution.
We live in one of the most unequal times history.
For many individuals they are unable to feed their families or feed themselves on a day to day basis.
Between paying rent, paying for your car, paying for utilities, they have no money left over to feed themselves let alone just live a good quality of life, improve what they have or pay mounting medical bills that many individuals have.
We live in a time where bankruptcy is at an all time high but not bankruptcy because people mismanage their money.
No, bankruptcy because individuals hurt themselves because they break a leg due to someone else's actions, because they slip and fall on an icy stoop and have no way to actually get medical care because guess what?
It costs millions of dollars for individuals to pay for all the medical care throughout their lives.
Tens of thousands of dollars can be charged for simple operations but medical care isn't the only reason why people are poor.
Wages have been stagnant throughout the last thirty or forty years while inflation continues to rise at its standard rate.
To pay for college as with a minimum wage job took about four point eight hours per week to pay the total of tuition.
Obviously people in college would work hard to pay for their house pay for other things now it takes seventeen point eight hours per day for individuals to be able to afford tuition.
They're paying full price for working a minimum wage job.
The amount of money that people are forced to pay is fundamentally unacceptable and as such, I would propose the following model: that the united states federal government implement a plan to massively redistribute wealth from the wealthier individuals to people in poverty.
This'll include increasing taxes on the wealthy, the super wealthy, even the moderately wealthy and massively increasing welfare at the same time.
Two arguments why this is a good idea: first off is ethics.
No one makes their money without the help of the poor.
Name any company and you understand that anyone who got rich from it got rich due to the efforts of people in poverty and the working class.
This is both because individuals in poverty built the goods behind them.
They even if they didn't build lamborghinis that require specialized workers they built the products the smelted the iron, they harvested the oar which ultimately went into the products that built these lamborghinis and even if they didn't actually have any part in the building, which we don't think it's actually possible, for many companies people in poverty are the major consumers as well.
We think there is a reciprocal obligation for people who are wealthy to pay back their debt to those in poverty, to guarantee that these individuals have access to goods, have access to a good quality of life because jeff bezos who makes millions of dollars on a monthly basis did not become rich due to his own actions but because of the minimum wage workers in his warehouses that he consistently abuses for his own profit.
My second argument is efficiency.
I think that people on the top don't have a major incentive to spend money in an efficient way.
They put a lot of money towards luxury goods which means that this wealth stays among the wealthiest people.
Not just that, we think that they have a major incentive to save this money to hoard it and as such, the economy does not continue to grow.
We think that people need to spend money to guarantee that the economy is consistently flowing, to guarantee that money is cycling and to ensure that businesses continue to grow an innovate.
If we were to redistribute this wealth into individuals who will spend it more consistently and more frequently, we think that the total power of our economy will grow substantially.
For this reason, we should increase wealth redistribution.