We should prohibit flag burning.
The desecration of a symbol as important of a as a flag does little more than embroil conflict and disgrace the very nations which provided the resources necessary for the flag burning to occur in the first place.
Flag burning only occurs in those states which are not authoritarian.
Those which provide you freedom and allow you to express yourself routinely.
As such, we would support the following model that any state which currently allows flag burning should ban it, should make it so anyone who burns a flag they're required to pay a decently large fine in order to ensure they do not do it again.
I've two arguments in today's debate for why we should prohibit flag burning.
First, on why it is ineffective and second, on why it is immoral.
Now why is flag burning ineffective?
First, it's unlikely to change individual's minds.
Flag burning is in a way a mancipatory act.
It's when your movement is incredibly clear in that it condemns the state or condemns individuals of authority.
Burning a flag does little more than appeal to your already energized base.
It's unnecessary to rile up your base further when you already have their support.
Oddly enough, increasing individual energy in regards to a particular activist group is far more likely to breed violence or other acts which members believe are in defense of their own ideology.
As such, we think that burning a flag does little more than make create violence among members of the group.
Additionally, it fails to bring individuals into the fold or into a particular activist group as it's more likely to breed resentment.
Every individual has particular actions and particular ideologies which they ascribe to their nation's flag.
Now the individuals who already despise the state, who are already part of an activist group, are unlikely to change their mind once you burn the flag.
Whoever the individuals who ascribe to the flag as some sort of reverence or other important honor will feel disgraced as you burn the flag.
As such, you're likely to see members of other groups turn away from your group.
You're likely to see your groups or ideologies membership increase but even worse you're likely to see individuals in positions of power turn their back on you.
Those individuals in positions of power nearly always respect the flag.
The flag represents their power and represents the systems which put them in power.
As such, burning it is likely to make them angry.
This means your policies are less likely to be passed as such, we think government should step in to ensure that this pointless form of speech which only breeds more anger and violence is stopped.
Now my second argument is that burning the flag is inherently immoral.
The flag represents a number of things to each individual.
It allows people to look at it and see some of some of their selves and see what they'd like themselves to be.
Burning it disgraces the nation in which the action is taking place.
We think that many individuals work in favor of the flag and burning it represents an incredible disgrace to that very nation.
We think it's acceptable when individuals take a knee during the national anthem or refuse to recognize the goals of a particular state but flag burning, the desecration of a symbol, is far more inflammatory and far more likely to cause damage to the area overall.
When there are clear alternatives which can be taken allowing an act which is both incredibly ineffective in changing minds and breeds violence and is intrinsically immoral ought essentially be prohibited by government as such, we should prohibit flag burning.