We should abolish capital punishment.
It is mind boggling that in our current society capital punishment continues to be used against individuals who largely are not culpable for their own actions and who we cannot prove beyond all doubt are guilty.
Even in cases we where we are certain that the person is sound of mind, where we are certain that they did the crime, it is impossible to determine whether their future self will feel remorse and will try to make society better.
As such, capital punishment represents the ultimate restriction on life while providing no meaningful benefits to our society as a whole.
I have two arguments in today's debate for why we should remove capital punishment.
First, on how it is intrinsically immoral and second, on how it largely targets individuals who are falsely convicted or are not completely the cause of their own actions.
But before I do that, a brief model.
We would say that all western liberal democracies should remove capital punishment.
We are for the purposes of this debate, we are ambivalent about other countries but would largely say that every state around the world should remove capital punishment for ever being used against anyone who has been convicted of a crime.
My first argument, once again, is that it is fundamentally immoral.
We think that the right to life is an inalienable right.
We would say that is unjust to torture someone.
It is unjust to truly restrict their speech so that they have no political efficacy.
However each of these rights the right to freedom of body, the right to sound body, the right to have some amount of consciousness and conscious thought in conscious affect on our political system depends on the right to life.
If there are any rights which are inalienable it must first stem from the right to life as it is a facilitative right of all other all other goods in our entire life.
As such, when the government removes it, it is exercising its monopoly on power in the most unjust way.
It is saying that a violation of the common covenants and laws is justifiable enough to truly destroy someone's being, to remove all power from their life.
Because we think this is unjust, because we think this is fundamentally unacceptable, we think that government should not have this power.
But secondly, we would say that the good and laws by extension are inherently idiosyncratic and subjective.
Because there is no objective good it is impossible to determine whether someone's actions are truly evil, are truly awful, are truly deserving of this sort of punishment.
Because of this, we think it is fundamentally unjust to take the ultimate action against them just because of subjective goods.
Finally, we would say that the purpose of punishment is to deter other criminal action.
It is to stop people from being violent and evil toward society.
-ever individuals who are given the capital punishment are not really deterred from any future actions.
Yes by killing them we stop them from taking any future actions, but life in prison would be just as efficacious at stopping them from being violent towards other people.
We would say that the best deterrent, the best way to make people live a better life, is to stop the recidivism rate from increasing by improving our political and prison system.
My second argument though is about the false targets of capital punishment.
There is it is impossible to punish someone with certainly.
There's no way to determine if someone's truly guilty of a crime.
Even with numerous witnesses there's always a potential for there to be embellishment, for there to be misremembering, for there to be coercion on behalf of police which makes it so this sort of punishment is unjust.
But we also say that capital punishment is regularly used against innocent individuals, people who did no crime at all simply for political reasons or for the police to find a scapegoat.
Because we think this is -ruly awful, it is abhorrent, we would say that we should abolish capital punishment.