I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should end progressive taxation.
I have two overviews followed by two independent arguments.
My first overview is that arbitrariness is not the same as unjustness.
What do we mean by this?
The age of consent in the united states or at least in most states is eighteen.
This is an arbitrary line.
There is very little difference between a seventeen-year-old and nineteen-year-old, and changing the age of consent plus or minus one year probably would not have a drastic effect on the world as a whole.
That's not to say that we should not have an age of consent.
In the same way, when drew mentions, time and time again, that tax brackets, tax amounts, are arbitrary, we would agree.
However, they are proximate to the most just forms of taxation and the most just ways to organize society.
He had to prove why the we should completely abandon these tax structures rather than just saying they are not clearly based on a logical system.
The failure to do so means that he has not proven that we should end progressive taxation.
He has simply proven that we might not be doing the most optimal form of progressive taxation.
My second overview is that we can simply adopt an uncomplex form of taxation.
He addresses the idea that the complex form of progressive taxation makes people evade taxes and accidentally commit tax fraud and even purposefully commit tax fraud.
However, this is because there are huge market incentives and huge lobbying incentives to have a complex tax system.
There's a massive sector of the economy based upon tax preparation.
Presumably this lobbying power would exist on either side of the house so there'd be the same incentive to be complex.
However, at the point where he wants to adopt a system which is truly uncomplex, we could do the same thing with progressive taxation.
Honestly, a tiered system really isn't complicated.
Two arguments: first, the idea of justness.
We think it is truly unfair to tax the rich and the poor at the same amount.
We would say that the government first has an obligation to the poor.
Many of the systems which entrench poverty are due to government action.
The creation of ghettos, the creation of food deserts, the fact there's poor infrastructure in communities which are more poor is largely largely a result of government inaction and unwillingness to focus on the needs of the poor.
At the point where there's a reciprocal obligation for the government to focus on the poor, at the point where governments were created to protect people's rights, and the rights which are most frequently devalued or ignored are the rights of the poor, it is clear that government has an obligation to at least give some money back to the poorest people in the community.
Furthermore and more meaningfully, the rich have an even larger obligation to the poor.
Yes, the rich and the poor drive on the same streets, but the rich get to drain the value of capital from the poor.
They get to work the poor have to work and the rich get to gain the value of their labor through simple organization, and largely because they inherited a huge amount of their money.
Social mobility in capitalist societies is incredibly low, so the rich are largely a result of their ancestors' actions anyways and honestly, racist and oppressive systems have contributed in huge ways to the systems of poverty and wealth in the united states.
Our my second argument is the idea of efficacy.
We think the government's action is based on utility in almost every single situation, otherwise government action is truly arbitrary and based on idiosyncratic good which will always go in the way of the powerful.
First, I want to discuss how the poor will literally starve if you take a percentage of their taxes away.
If the poor are spending a hundred percent of their money to survive, taking ten percent away puts them in a starvation situation.
That is unjust.
Secondly though, at the point where even the middle class get more utility from a dollar than the rich, it is very clear that government should take action to equalize society, take the maximum maximally utile action.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.
Thank you.