We should abolish the monarchy.
Monarchy is our systems of government which are based on hereditary rule based on a lineage which passes generation to generation and does not depend on the will of the people.
Because we think this is inherently unjust we support the following model.
That all states which currently employ monarchies should adopt representative democracies.
In areas where the monarchs are unwilling to give up power any leaders who agree with the sort of cause, the state which agrees with this sort of cause, should put economic pressure on the state to abolish their monarchy and otherwise support military intervention to allow representative democracies to flourish.
Three arguments.
First, we would say that monarchies are inherently illegitimate power.
Now the good is idiosyncratic.
That is to say, there is no true universal good which stems from god or from nature.
It always depends on the will of the people and the individuals who are involved in the discourse which we define as policy making.
Unfortunately, vesting power in a few communities means that the will of the people is never meaningfully reflected.
This is incredibly problematic as governments can never be optimal in this sort of case.
The power does not derive from the people it derives usually from some claim that these people are that monarchs are godly, deserving of power through some birthright, but is unlikely to reflect the will of the people.
Because we think this is inherently illegitimate, we would say that even a just king cannot be a legitimate ruler and as such, ought be ousted from their position of power.
Now the second argument is that the best leaders come from representative democracy.
Monarchies inevitably become bad.
My opponents can bring up numerous examples of kings which were seen as benevolent or seen as good.
First, I'd like to say that much of the historical examples of benevolent kings are kings or queens who were comparatively good, who compared to unjust rulers might have been seen as a good monarch.
Unfortunately, as they pass from generation to generation of inevitably a ruler will come to power who is abusive.
We think that this is particularly likely in a a monarchy given that the individuals who are groomed for power are raised in a seat of profound privilege.
They are given as much money as they want, as much power as they want, essentially do not understand the plight of the common individual and as such, will likely pass policies for their own benefit and the benefits of individuals who have accepted their patronage or otherwise worked with the monarch in the past.
Democracy let the marketplace of ideas to flourish.
Even if a problematic leader comes to power of eventually, we would say that they're going to lose power over time but furthermore there are always checks in place against undemocratic leaders.
This is incredibly important as a monarch does not have these sort of checks.
They have these the claim to the throne and will likely have a number of leaders behind them.
We think that democracy puts checks in place to prevent problematic leaders from coming forth so even the worst case scenarios bad leaders in or in democratic states can be ousted and change can be created.
Now my third argument is the idea of peace.
People will inevitably fight against monarchies.
It is unclear if they will succeed.
We would say that war is in a near ultimate bad where thousands of people lose their lives, their homes, their families, and as such, the most immediate change to a representative democracy, particularly with international support, will lead to less conflict in the long term, less loss of life, and generally a better world.
As such, we should abolish the monarchy.