I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban abortions.
We've seen abortion bans be implemented around the world and to disastrous effects.
When women are forced to have a child that they do not want, nothing good comes of the situation.
These bans are based on moral ideology and religious ideology which is not universalizable and as such, will lead to the oppression of women in when they would otherwise have autonomy and be allowed economic and social freedoms.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first an overview.
My opponent gives an exception where sexual assault occurs.
This is despite their own arguments that individuals will understand when to get an abortion, will understand how to act after being pregnant.
This accepts that certain individuals are not actually culpable for the results of their sexual actions.
It is unclear why these can't be universalized to all individuals.
Many individuals have sex with no expectation of having a child.
It is unclear why someone should have to give up a massive portion of their lives, some of their bodily autonomy simply because we blame them for having sex.
This is the most puritanical and problematic application of morality which we could have on the government level.
Next a brief piece of rebuttal.
My opponent says life start at conception.
Unclear why this is true.
They say that because these cells might become a child in the long term, then they deserve to be respected as a child.
So first the vast majority of children, the vast majority of embryos, aren't actually going to become a child.
Before three weeks most impregnated embryos actually just are flushed out of the body.
Past three weeks there is still the chance of miscarriage.
We would say that there's no reason why these embryos actually deserve the rights of the people in so far as they don't have autonomy and do not have conscious thought.
Under their own standard, masturbation would be a crime because it would be possible that those cells should be will become a child eventually given the right situation.
We would say that this is fundamentally ridiculous and as such, should not be used as the logical standard for whether or not abortion is legalized.
This brings me to my two arguments.
First, on the fundamental right to one's body.
We believe that individuals have the right to their own body and the right to define what is happening to their body.
Recognize that a growing child inside of someone is always going to be a part of them rather than its own individual entity.
It leeches nutrients, time, energy, off this individual, draws considerable social and stigma which has incredibly problematic repercussions and generally restricts the rights of its host.
We believe that someone ought to have the right to eject what is essentially a parasitic host if they see it that way and the government stepping in to prevent them from doing so is a restriction on their rights and fundamentally unacceptable.
This leads me to my second argument about the fact that rapid response after pregnancy is generally impossible.
This cuts against all their culpability arguments and generally suggests that an abortion is just another form of birth control in the vast majority of situations.
Many individuals do not know they're pregnant until after three weeks.
People don't start showing until considerably after they're actually impregnated and after all birth control is ineffective.
This is when people actually start to understand that they are pregnant.
Furthermore, social pressures, medical pressures, economic pressures, make it so many people cannot access immediate response birth control and as such, we think that making abortion a crime generally just decreases the total options of birth control available.
For the first trimester abortion is just another form of birth control and we're fine defending only having first trimester abortions and still winning under every logical framework in this round.
For this reason, we should not ban abortions.