I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should not subsidize single parents.
Single parents require an incredible amount of support from their community if they want to raise a child as effectively as possible.
They have been dealt a losing hand.
Raising a child for two parents is hellish.
Raising a child as a single parent is done frequently but honestly, causes incredible amounts of suffering compared to the alternative.
These are individuals who have weighed the options, have said " I do not want to be with someone else " or have been abandoned by someone else and as such, they have been forced into a particular circumstance that they ought not to have to continue being in.
Subsidization of their lifestyle is a way to guarantee that parents are not continually suffering as a result of someone else's choices and that children get the best education and childhood possible.
I have some brief rebuttal before two arguments.
So my opponent's first argument is that welfare and subsidization should be based on need.
Two responses: first, this is an incredible false dichotomy.
There's not an inherent trade-off between subsidizing single parents and subsidizing the poor.
We think that congress, we think that any legislature allocates these budgets separately and doesn't just have a big pool of welfare money which they can't give to other people once they've given it to single parents.
Additionally, we think that single parents do not make up such a massive amount of our society that individuals in poverty will notice any meaningful difference even if that money were transferred to them.
Finally, my second response is that numbers cannot tell you everything.
Just because someone is living in poverty doesn't mean they don't have a lot of material assets or simply do not actually need that kind of money because they're living a lifestyle that's more minimalistic or just simply does not depend on them making huge amounts of money.
Additionally, having a lot of money doesn't really tell you anything as someone could be a hundred thousand dollars in debt but also making say, a hundred thousand dollars in their first year even though it's like a one year business.
Like essentially numbers are unable to tell you the whole picture and single parents are far more likely to suffer due to their single parent status even if they have more money.
My opponent's second argument is that it's a band-aid solution.
But this is largely unclear about what they mean.
When they talk about things like effective sex education, that's non-unique.
When but additionally, it's unlikely to prevent all people who would become single parents from not becoming single parents.
Additionally, it's not like we can legislate people divorcing or stop people from abandoning one another and as such, there's no way to get a permanent solution except for subsidization which actually prevents the material harms of being a single parent.
This brings me to my first argument how this is a subsidization of children.
We think that childcare and like effect essentially more time with a child where they're working towards their education and being watched by someone responsible means that that child will grow up more responsible themselves.
They'll be a better member of society.
We think that childcare is essentially impossible for single parents.
Every hour they work their child is unwatched however, every hour they watch their child is another hour that they aren't getting an income.
It is essential that single parents have the ability to pay for things like childcare which requires them to get some amount of subsidization if they want to also make a meaningful amount of money.
My second argument is about the role of welfare.
We think that welfare is about getting the most value out of money.
If someone who's incredibly wealthy would has a dollar, it's not going to be as valuable compared to someone who's in poverty who gets that same dollar.
I think that people who are single parents are far more likely to use money effectively than or than other individuals.
We think that they're likely to spend it on their child.
We think that they're likely to use it to not spend as much time at work and to raise their child effectively.
It prevents societal harms like people giving their children up for adoption and and people relying on crime to get more money.
As such, we should definitely subsidize single parents.