We should criminalize blasphemy.
Absolute free speech does not exist.
Even in the united states one of the most liberal countries when it comes to free speech access, there is speech which is banned speech which creates conflict, speech which creates crime.
In the same way that speech which creates crime ought to be banned given that it has no societal benefit, we would say that blasphemy ought similarly be banned and as such we support the following model.
That criticism of religion with the sole purpose to offend ought to be banned.
This means that you can be satirical in your criticisms of religion as long as you're -sizing them in a meaningful way.
This means that me saying god is a donkey fucker or making some insult about gods from a variety of religions with no substantive material, ought to be criminalized and met with a small fine to discourage this individual from doing it in the future.
Two arguments for why we ought criminalize blasphemy, but first an overview.
I want to discuss when speech ought to be banned.
Speech can be banned whenever it is first off disutile.
When speech does not provide a meaningful political impetus it provides little to society.
When it does not reflect the ideals of the community but also does not provide additional freedom for the speaker we would say that governments have a right to ban that particular kind of speech.
Furthermore, we would say that governments have an obligation to ban speech whenever that speech is violent, whenever it causes harm, whenever it inevitably creates conflict between groups.
I will prove that governments have a right to ban speech in this case but also have an obligation given the conflict created by blasphemous speech.
My first argument is that blasphemy is particularly pernicious given that it is unequal speech.
The religions which are easiest to criticize, easiest to blaspheme against with out much recourse and without individuals coming to its defense are religions which are not commonly reflected in the state you're currently in.
In the united states I can say things that are antisemitic or islamophobic and it is unlikely that individuals will champion the causes of these religions given that there are not many people of those religions within the united states or least a comparatively small percentage.
As such, we create cycles of harm and cycles of criticism which inevitably lead to problematic viewpoints and violence against the communities.
When there is no defender of islam when I say that islam is a horrific religion that is inherently violent, individuals internalize those views and two things happened.
First off there's violence between the individuals who hear these kind of speech and people from those religions but additionally it creates political impetus is to oppress these groups as well.
When there's a common acceptance of a particular religion is inherently corrupt or problematic, that is when racist and oppressive and fascist policies are adopted by governments and as such, we think the government ought to step in to prevent this from ever happening.
My second argument is that blasphemous speech inherently creates conflict.
When I say something blasphemous and there is someone from that religion in the area, the likelihood of violence and conflict increases by a massive margin.
Individuals feel that they must defend their religion if they want to go to heaven and even in religions that don't have a like a an afterlife, defending your religion means defending your culture, your family, your very basis of your belief system, and your understanding of this world.
It is unsurprising that individuals react violently when they hear blasphemous speech and we cannot blame them for doing so as such, we ought outright ban blasphemous speech from preventing this conflict from ever actually occurring to having to adjudicate between an individual defending their culture and someone simply speaking their mind.
As such, we should criminalize blasphemy.