I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should further exploit genetic engineering.
Genetic engineering is in its infancy.
We're learning about it every single day.
We're consantly putting more money into it.
However, it's incredibly clear that further exploiting genetic engineering, at this point in time, would be catastrophic.
As I said before, it's in its infancy.
We must allow it to grow at a natural rate using well-regulated systems if we want to ensure that genetic engineering does not lead to widespread panic, death, and destruction.
To that end, I want to define what this debate is really about.
We think that further exploiting genetic engineering isn't further research again.
We're doing that in the status quo, we're learning as fast as we can, and we're trying new things on a day-to-day basis.
Further exploiting genetic engineering would be trying to apply it in more ways we haven't thought of yet, like children, animals, essentially using genetic engineering to truly change the makeup of sentient beings or changing food in such a way that we really haven't imagined in this point in time.
I have two arguments why this is a bad idea.
First off, it's incredibly dangerous.
One example of further exploiting genetic engineering is a chinese doctor who experimented on babies to try to make them HIV resistant.
The result was that these many of these children died, many of them got other diseases, and ultimately this doctor went to jail for a good reason.
Further exploiting genetic engineering is dangerous because we simply do not understand enough about genetic engineering to do it efficaciously.
The more that we apply it, the more that we use it on humans, the more likely we are to see horrific side effects, horrific changes and, ultimately, a decrease in the overall capacity for scientists to even effectively engage with humans as true and meaningful people.
We think that every time you have human test subjects without the express purpose of simply making someone better, to simply solve an immediately present danger or something they've consented to, we think that genetic engineering and that kind of science ultimately just degrades humanity.
Secondly, though, applying it to food, applying it to other things in ways we don't understand could also lead to widespread death.
Attempts to make food disease-resistant, make it, say, e coli resistant, can lead to things like antibiotic-resistant diseases that ultimately are far more deadly than their non-resistant counterparts.
We think that there must be far more time put into the research of genetic engineering before it's actually applied.
My second argument is that it's just simply too expensive.
Trying to apply genetic engineering, at best, it will create two real sections of society, one which the wealthy people can use their money to solve themselves, effectively be immortal and further otherize the poor individuals in their society who cannot afford genetic engineering.
This is incredibly problematic and will lead to a stratification of society at an unimaginable level that leads to oppression, destruction and, ultimately, just bad times for all.
But in the best like in the worst-case scenario, we think that this incredibly expensive policy is simply just wasted money, that we could be putting these things toward, say, solving cancer, solving other very valuable problems that really need to be resolved in the modern day.
This money is fungible.
That is to say, every dollar we put towards genetic engineering could be put towards a different cause and probably in a far more efficacious way.
The market is already trying to use genetic engineering at the maximum rate it can really handle or be efficacious at.
Putting more time, money or resources into it will not improve anybody's quality of life in any meaningful way.
For this reason, we should not further exploit genetic engineering.