Tattoos should be banned.
Ultimately, tattoos are a refusal of consent from your future self.
They are an indelible mark you put upon yourself which can never be changed, even if they harm you going into the future.
We believe that tattoos are largely unjust and that they could have undo social effects on the individuals who get them and as such, we think it is just for the government to step in and change the way that individuals operate within the tattoo space.
We think that there are always alternatives, such as temporary tattoos.
We believe that tattoos never meaningfully increase someone's quality of life compared to the potential harms of using them.
As such, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government should go after individuals who provide tattoos.
This means that a decently large fine for the first time you are caught, followed by potential jail time for future times and a increasing fine every single time you're caught giving a tattoo.
We want to absolutely remove the financial motive behind this kind of action.
Additionally, they'll be a small fine for individuals who get tattoos.
So if individuals go to another state to get a tattoo or if they get a tattoo after the law is passed, we would still fine them.
The only exemptions we would put are religious tattoos or tattoos with a strong cultural meaning beyond just its aesthetic value.
This means that tattoos themselves must be a part of the culture.
It can't just be a cultural tattoo.
My first argument is about consent.
Let's discuss the standard of a ban and when the government can take action on behalf of private individuals.
We believe that there are three questions that need to be answered when deciding if there will be a ban.
First is their predictability of harm.
We believe that if the results of the tattoo are predictable that it would be just for people to have them.
We'd say that there's not really a strong level of predictability.
There's an asymmetry of information given that, a: it's incredibly difficult to check if the individual has the resources to make sure that there's no danger in the tattoo room, but additionally, we think it's impossible to predict what the tattoo will look like going into the future, how it will look when you age, how it'll look when it hits the sun and starts to bleach out.
Generally, the lack of predictability makes it just for the government to ban them.
Secondly, though, we think that there is a total removal of consent from your future self.
This is unacceptable, given that this is not a reversible practice.
The ultimate result of this is that you revoke the ability of your future self to self-actualize, which ought not be allowed.
We'd say the general result of this, the result of government inaction, then, is a failure on behalf of government, which leads to a decrease in the in individuals faith in government and in civic engagement.
Additionally, we think that the failure of regulation largely means that individuals feel more justified in self-regulation and taking individual unilateral action against individuals they feel like are being unjust.
My second argument is about the social effects of tattoos.
We believe that tattoos are stigmatized in a huge number of circles, that there's inherent prejudice against tattoos, and that they can be incredibly problematic in the long term.
This is an inherent issue with tattoos that can never be solved for and as such, the government should protect citizens by banning them outright.
Additionally, we think that there's certain tattoos which are incredibly problematic, which we also would like to regulate, but can't without outright banning them.
We think that face tattoos can lead to a total loss of autonomy and loss of financial efficacy, which we think the government ought prevent, and we think that offensive tattoos push individuals into a life of offensive behavior.
Even if they want to change, they will always be branded as a bigot if they get an offensive tattoo.
As such, tattoos should be banned.