We should prohibit corporal punishment.
Corporal punishment is incredibly inefficient and immoral.
The goal of punishment is to deter particular action.
However, corporal punishment typically breeds anger, resentment, and has a considerably higher rate of recidivism and reviolation of particular rules.
Additionally, it is always immoral.
For punishment to occur, it must have a powerful individual taking action against a less powerful individual.
Using violence in this scenario does little more than violate the rights of the individual being punished.
With this in mind, we propose the following model: that corporal punishment should be banned outright, that anyone who uses corporal punishment, whether that be in a classroom or a jail, will be fined a serious amount of money which will dissuade them from doing this action again, in the hundreds of dollars.
Two arguments in this regard: first, corporal punishment is inherently ineffective.
Now, when we're punishing individuals, the goal obviously is to ensure that a particular action is not done again.
When you put someone in rehab, it is in way in a way a punishment, as they lose some of their autonomy, but it also ensures that they essentially stop using drugs, stop using alcohol, stop using violence to their ends.
Corporal punishment does little more than breed resentment.
Couple reasons why it's ineffective.
First, it does not cater the punishment to the actual action being taken.
We think that it is essential to create a a personal punishment and one which reflects the crimes being done.
As such, individuals are reminded of the action they took in the past and are less likely to take it in the future, as they can draw upon the experience to ensure they don't do it again.
Secondly, it does not have as its goal rehabilitation.
The goal of corporal punishment is simply to scare individuals enough that they don't do the action again.
But all that scaring a person does is make them less likely to tell the truth or report particular actions to individuals of authority.
The reason that individuals break rules or violate laws is typically because they feel incredibly passionate in a particular regard or they have to.
Now, either of these scenarios will not be dissuaged by corporal punishment, as corporal punishment simply makes individuals angry when they recall the event of their punishment.
As such, they're less likely to turn to figures of authority in important situations and are far more likely to commit the act again.
Finally, it's ineffective because it teaches that violence is an acceptable outcome.
We think that a lot of corporal punishment is used in response to violence.
A kid punches another kid, that's when individuals think corporal punishment is acceptable.
However, all this does is teach children and teach adults, even, that punishment is an acceptable tool when used by figures of authority.
It's very rare that individuals will see it as only being justifiable in terms of figures of authority and as such, they're likely to repeat violent actions and emulate the individuals who punish them.
Now my second argument is that corporal punishment is inherently immoral.
Violence is only justifiable in self-defense.
Violence is inherently dehumanizing as it says that someone's life and safety are not important compared to your own ends.
Now we can wave someone's right to safety and their right to life if they're impeding upon your right to life.
However, punishment only occurs when you have someone under control, when they're no longer a threat, and as such, using violence against them is akin to torture.
It makes them suffer for incredibly few reasons, but also makes them suffer in a way that violates their bodily autonomy and their sense of existential safety.
And as such, we should prohibit corporal punishment.