I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should close guantanamo bay.
Although guantanamo bay has been at the center of much heated debate, there is a reason that every politician who has campaigned on the back of closing it has refused to do so when they get into office.
Guantanamo bay is an essential tool in the united states tool belt, and closing it would do little more than allow the terrorists to win.
I know this is a cliche and overused phrase, but when terrorist attacks are taken out with a particular reason in mind and then we capitulate to those reasons, you prove that terror is an effective tool.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first, on how closing guantanamo bay proves the efficacy of terror, and second, on how guantanamo bay is an essential tool for the united states.
But first, an overview.
Closing guantanamo bay does very little, because it is not unique.
Because the prisoners at guantanamo bay have no rights under the US constitution or under US law, there are two possibilities once guantanamo is closed.
They're all still seen as enemy combatants so the most likely possibility is they're put in a CIA black site.
These have even less oversight than guantanamo bay and are run by the CIA, who are the original torturers, who train people around the world to torture people to extract information.
Putting them in a CIA black site is even more cruel than allowing them to stay in guantanamo bay.
The other possibility is that they are put in a supermax prison in the US, prisons run by gangs, where violence is common, assault is common, and individuals have similar degradations of their rights.
Because the US will never release the people at guantanamo bay, they will ultimately face even worse situations were we to close it.
Regardless of this, though, I have two arguments: first, that closing guantanamo bay proves the efficacy of terror.
When terrorist acts have been committed under the idea that they are because guantanamo bay is still open, closing it capitulates to their demands.
It proves to terrorists that terror is an effective tool for getting what they want.
Regardless of whether the united states is folding under political pressure or the pressure of terrorists, terrorists will optically see it as a capitulation to their demands and will continue to use terror to push their ideology.
This is incredibly problematic on two fronts.
First, if the US capitulates to terrorists' demands regularly, then they will lose their hegemonic position around the world, disrupting many states' defense planning, while also empowering nonstate actors to disrupt current situations in the middle east.
We think this is inherently problematic.
The other possibility is US only capitulates in this one situation in which more which means that more terrorist attacks will be taken out around the world, but there'll be no actual change in policy.
If you oppose simple increase in the number of terrorist attacks, then you will leave guantanamo bay open.
Now my second argument is that this is an important and effective tool for the united states.
The possibility of going to guantanamo bay deters many terrorists from conducting terrorist actions.
We think that, particularly on US soil, it makes it so people are far less likely to try to buy bombs, buy guns, in an attempt to kill large numbers of civilians.
At the end of the day, the government's obligation is only to its citizens.
These are the people who pay their taxes, vote for the government, and have put work into create the state in which they currently exist.
Deterring terrorist attacks are essential and as such, we should not close guantanamo.
Additionally, it has been used as an incredibly important tool for getting information.
The raid on osama bin laden was in part created using information gained at guantanamo, and continuing to get information from terrorist suspects will be essential for saving future american lives by removing terrorists from the equation.
As such, we should not close guantanamo bay.