We should introduce recall elections.
The fact that politicians are given near unbridled power after they've been elected inevitably leads to tyranny.
Although many democracies have been referred to as great experiments, others fail in their totality because a corrupt politician has accepted that they have been given a role and that there's very few ways in which they can be removed.
With this motion we would like to provide another avenue for removing corrupt individuals and for reinforcing political mandates which we think are essential for policy making.
As such, we would support the following model: that recall elections be introduced in all states.
That they be automatically triggered in a state halfway through an individual's term and that recall elections can be used if enough signatures are gathered on a petition to ask for the recall of a particular politician.
We would limit the number of recall elections in a term to probably say three or four so that political opponents cannot simply use recall elections to slow down the political process and can only use it when they think it is a political necessity.
Now I have two arguments in today's debate: first, is that recall elections check tyranny, and second, that it enforces good behavior.
We would say that tyranny is the ultimate and worst form of government.
What we mean by this is that as time goes on if you roll the dice enough times ultimately you will get a bad roll.
If you elect numerous politicians, eventually you will get one whose aspirations are to be a tyrant.
They will used methods which disenfranchise voters, actively repress individuals, and harm the general population in attempt to stifle democracy and continue their own reign.
Recall elections check this.
It allows certain individuals to vote in the election and make sure if a tyrannical dictator comes to power they can be removed.
Imagine a situation in which a political leader wants to disenfranchise a huge portion of the population.
Signatures can be gathered quickly to introduce a recall election and those individuals who would be disenfranchised can vote to remove that leader.
As such, we check tyranny and the worst leaders possible.
Now these are the particular kinds of leaders who cause things like genocide, political turmoil, violence within the state.
So the ability to check them in that regard also allows us to prevent the ultimate and worst symptoms of their leadership.
Now my second argument is that this can enforce good behavior.
Politicians are given greater incentive to work harder for the population instead of their own pocket and to work to communicate as best as possible with the general population in order to understand their needs.
If a politician is tone deaf, even if they believe that they're doing good, they could easily face a recall election which will remove them from office.
As such, we would say that they have a huge incentive to discuss what they're doing increasing political engagement and political knowledge which leads to better outcomes in a democracy.
Similarly, they will not pass problematic policies if a recall could potentially be used against them.
Additionally, recall elections allow individuals to reinforce their mandate creating better policy making.
After an individual's elected they have a large political mandate because the population has accepted that they would be a good leader.
They can pass a lot of policy then.
This generally diminishes over time but if we had mandatory recall elections halfway through, it will allow leaders to actually reinforce their political mandate if the whole the population supports their term and they win in a massive landslide.
As such, we get better policy, better policy making, and more camaraderie in the legislative bodies.
As such, we should introduce recall elections.