We should legalize polygamy.
At the end of the day, all marriage ought to be allowed.
If two consenting adults accept that they want to spend the rest of their life together and would like that to be recognized by the government, they ought to be able to freely associate however they see fit.
As long as these people are of age and fully understand what they're consenting to and as long as there is a way out for them, there's no reason in which we should prevent individuals from marrying multiple other people.
As such we would support the following model: that all western liberal democracies legalized polygamy.
That is polygamous marriages don't need to list five spouses, don't need to list all these people.
We would say that each marriage can separately be its own contract with its own figures of divorce, which can be adjudicated by the court system.
There are far more complicated contract disputes that exist in the court system, so we see no reason in which divorce between one individual from a host of a a host of other individuals would be meaningfully complicated or troublesome.
We have two arguments in today's debate about why polygamy ought be legalized.
First is the right to association.
At the end of the day, the only way in which individuals can be politically active and live a free and happy quality of life is that they're free to associate with the people who they choose to be around.
Now, regardless of the definition or label on that association, we would say that individual should be able to sign a contract freely.
The only just power is contracts.
So recognition of a particular partnership by the government through a contract ought be allowed in any form.
Polygamy is simply an extension of this argument.
Essentially an an extension of this example.
It allows multiple people who are living together, in a polygamous relationship, to recognize that and sign a contract as such.
Refusing to recognize it on the part of the government simply refuses the right to association of these individuals by socially shaming them and shaming them through the law.
Furthermore it makes these polygamous relationships considerably more difficult.
When individuals have no recourse when they pull their money and resources.
When they can adjudicate these conflicts and law, because a polygamous relationship or at least a polygamous marriage is illegal, the they are given two possibilities: either they can trust that their partner might be kind, might be just immediately after a break up, which is unlikely, or they can simply refuse to associate in that regard, which we think restricts their rights.
As such government refusal to legalize polygamy restricts individuals right to association in an incredibly problematic way preventing them from self actualizing.
Now my second argument is that the government ought not define proper marriage.
A massive issue in the modern day is whether certain groups of people can get married.
Unfortunately in many states throughout the world the only individuals who can get married are a heterosexual couple.
We would say that as long as government is defining and rewarding particular relationships, it is being inherently unequal.
We would say the government has an inherent obligation to put all people at the same level.
To respect them under the same laws, and provide them with relief that is equitable and fair.
When a heterosexual monogamous couple gets together and gets tax benefits, social benefits, insurance benefits, through this relationship, but these same rights are refused to polygamous individuals, we fundamentally say that certain relationships are better than others and once again restrict individuals rights to choice.
As such we should legalize polygamy.