I stand in firm opposition to the motion tattoos should be banned.
It is very clear that my opponent's case stands on very uneasy and shakable legs.
They use the word should a lot, that people should do a particular thing if they want to live the best life possible.
However when government steps in and tries to define each and every action which an individual takes through oppressive policy, it reduces all people's quality of life.
Just because I should eat fruit and vegetables for every meal doesn't mean I should not be allowed to eat bread and meat.
Just because I should ride my bike everywhere doesn't mean that we should ban cars out right.
Quite simply, individuals' preferences have value and government stepping in to ban things the gross overstep and misuse of their power.
With that in mind I have two arguments, first on how this is a government overstep, and second on how this is an illogical form of punishment and legislation, but first some extraneous rebuttal.
The core of my opponent's advocacy rests on the idea that tattoos are both dangerous and unnecessary.
I want to first address the idea of dangerous because in the status quo the vast majority of states require tattoo artists to get a license.
They must post their license and if they practice without their licence they can be punished.
This means that there are massive amounts of regulation which ensure that they don't use dirty needles which they use allergy free items or at least check with their clients about their allergies before they start tattooing.
If you think that accidents are a bad thing and the worst thing in this round then you're voting opposition, because when you ban tattoos individuals won't be licensed.
They'll run unlicensed shops which have no regulation and are far more likely to spread diseases.
This is the reason why in prohibition so many people went blind due to bad alcohol or otherwise face incredibly problematic health problems.
Now the second argument I want to refute is the idea that preference doesn't really matter, that there are alternatives.
As I've said before, you have the right to define what you're is on your own body and define what you think is the good life.
Government stepping in in this regard is incredibly problematic and leads to my next argument, that this is a gross overstep of government power.
Just because someone should live a certain way doesn't mean government must force it down their throats.
Government can only step in to ban particular things in a few cases, that the first case is if individuals cannot understand what they are actually doing.
Now no transaction has perfect information, no one truly understands the outcomes of their action as a chaos theory suggests a butterfly flapping their wings wings can cause a hurricane far far away.
As such if government were to ban every action which doesn't have perfect information, then individuals would be rendered catatonic as essentially all actions would be banned.
Now there must be a bar in which information that at which a certain level of information is acceptable.
It is very clear what tattoos do to your body, what they happens to them over time, there's massive amounts of information out there to learn, and it's very clear that they'll be permanent.
As such there's no information asymmetry or problem with the tattoo process which would otherwise make it so it should be banned.
The other case where government can step in the ban something is if there are third-party harms.
It is clear that tattoos have no third-party harms, they are purely an individual action.
As such stepping in to ban them is reducing individuals' preferences, represents tyranny on behalf of the government, and oppression which cannot be accepted.
Now my second argument is that this is not a logical form of punishment.
Now I don't know if my opponent is just going to fine individuals because they don't define it, or if they'll put them in jail because of their tattoos.
Individuals with tattoos will be given one of two options either they pay extra money because they have a tattoo and then get to live the rest of their life with their tattoo or it's forcely forcibly removed from their body.
Either case is terrible.
If you just have to pay a fine then we make tattoos only a privilege for the super rich who can pay this fine.
If it's removed from your body, this is essentially torture on behalf of the government as tattoo removal is incredibly painful and fundamentally unjust.
For this reason, tattoos should not be banned.