I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should limit campaign finance.
The ability to spend your money how you see fit is essential in a capitalist system.
The fundamental way in which we conceptualize the world around us and we conceptualize our own property is through free ownership of one's own property.
That is to say, there's no way I can understand american politics or american culture if I don't understand that my money is my own, my investments are my own, and I have a right to use that money where I see fit.
By limiting campaign finance, we fundamentally limit the capacity for individuals to express control of their own property.
We make it so speech, political engagement, engagement in general is far more difficult, and the fundamental systems which run our democracy, run our economy, and run our political system as a whole go away.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first, that money is speech.
We think that the most reductionist and simple form of speech or, at least, model of speech, is one in which we only consider how people talk.
But this is one in which we ignore things like the first amendment, we ignore that freedom of religion and religious beliefs are also a form of speech.
We ignore that assembly and getting together with people's a form of speech.
We would also say that things like violence, things like making gestures are also speech as well.
Speech is anything in which you can influence another individual with the express purpose of getting your idea across.
It's incredibly easy to see that money, then, is a form of speech.
If I pay someone to do something, if I throw money at a certain cause, I am clearly saying something with that money.
I'm saying: support animals, I'm saying: end prison atrocities and exploitation.
However I use my money, the world will change around it, and they'll understand that the world is changing based on how I think, how I want the world to change.
As such, we think that money is a reflection of the self and the self has rights to express itself.
As such, limiting campaign finance would make it so we limit speech.
We would violate our own constitutional principles as defined by the constitution and by the supreme court in citizens united, by saying that money is not speech, that you should not be able to contribute as much as you see fit.
The result, then, would be a less democratic and fair society.
My second argument is that information is always good.
We think that people having more money means they can run more ads, means they can spend less time on the phone trying to solicit donations and now, actually go out and talk about the issues.
This is clearly the best-case scenario for everyone.
If I donate a hundred million dollars, a congressperson no longer needs to go around and ask people for donations.
They can spend more time explaining their policies.
They can spend more time actually letting people know who and what they're voting for in the candidate.
Even if they continue their donation recruitment, their donation discussions, we think that if they can run more ads, if they can put out more news articles, if they can they can make it clear who they are, the result is good as well, because individuals will get more information, they'll understand what's happening around them far more effectively, and the result, then, will be that individuals can vote more effectively.
Information is the foundation on which any democratic system exists.
If you don't understand what you're voting for, democracy is failing.
As such, limiting campaign finance is far more likely to decrease the information available and make individuals far less equipped to vote.
For this reason, we should not limit campaign finance.