We should abolish needle exchange programs.
Although well intentioned, needle exchange programs represent a misuse of funds, is giving money to individuals who have decided, of their own volition, to take illegal substances.
Furthermore, it actualizes harms against the poor.
Particularly individuals who in no way consented to be part of this transaction.
As such we support the following motion: that all needle exchange programs will be banned and all cities which currently have needle exchanges will get rid of them.
Two arguments: first is that it is a misuse of resources.
All taxation is theft.
It requires government power and behind it is the threat of jail time or other force.
As such we need an incredibly high bar to use the wealth that we steal from citizens.
The only just cash transfers occur when three conditions are met: first, the recipient isn't fully culpable.
We would say that individuals who would use needle exchange programs are fully culpable for the harms that end up being actualized upon them.
They decide not to buy safe needles.
They decide to take the drugs.
We would say that giving money to these individuals, or giving money to causes which support these individuals represents theft to theft which benefits individuals who in no way deserve the sort of money.
The second standard is that the recipient can use the program to further their own wealth.
This is why welfare is just, as it allows individuals who would otherwise not be able to pull themselves up by their bootstraps to actually get enough money to further their lot in life.
To invest in human capital by investing in themselves.
We would say that the needle exchange program doesn't do this.
It simply is an excuse for drug addicts to get cheaper drugs, essentially, to cut the cost of using drugs substantially when they don't have to buy other needles.
And it does not allow them to get themselves out of poverty as it most likely will entrench entrench the conditions of poverty as they get further and further addicted to drugs, as this program supports drug use.
Now, the third standard is that is it is reciprocally beneficial.
We would say that all welfare eventually trickles to all subsections subsections of society.
Either through a variety of programs, or simply because poor people spend their money and that goes to the cashier who rings up at the store, goes to the person who provides the good and goes to the owner of the store at as well.
We would say that needle exchange programs do not actually spread themselves out among society, and as such they represent a theft without any money coming back to the person from which this money was taken, which is an injustice in and of itself.
We would say that any program which fails a single standard should not be adopted by the government, but this program fails all three.
As such we would say that it is fundamentally unjust, and we would so that justness is an end in and of itself.
It is the only way in which society can be held to its own standards and the only way which governments can be meaningfully critiqued.
We would further say that it's going to be a political backlash as it doesn't fit the standards.
As taxation being theft will likely create a conservative backlash against this sort of policy.
The second argument is that this leads to ghettoization.
We would say that the location will likely be in a poor neighborhood and attract a lot of drug addicts.
We'd say that drug drug addicts will go to these places as it will cost less for them to take drugs as they don't spend money on needles, and they're unlikely to be highly policed, as they don't want to discourage drug addicts from going to these places.
As such there will be an increase in crime in these areas as individuals are forced to live around more drug addicts overall.
This means that poor people who did not commit any crime, who are not taking any illegal substance, will likely have massive harms against them as drug addicts steal their goods and also make the area less safe.
Because we think this harms all sub sects of society, so proud to oppose.