We should abolish the right to silence.
Our society has far too many laws and protections for individuals who are actually guilty.
Things like probable cause and the right to a lawyer guarantee that innocent people are protected from unjust punishment by the state but the ability to remain silent when asked a direct and simple question does nothing more than protect the guilty or providing no benefits for the innocent.
Because of this, we are ultimately against the right to silence and propose the following model.
So in the status quo, what happens is when someone is silent either to the police or in a court of law the jury cannot interpret that silence to mean anything.
That is to say if someone says they plead the fifth amendment that answering the question could lead to their own incrimination the jury isn't allowed to say hmm this person might be guilty.
Now in our world after we abolish the right to silence, when a lawyer or a cop asks you a direct question like do you have drugs in the back of your car and you refused to answer they can infer things from that silence.
They can then search your car if you refused to say anything.
Additionally if you lied if you refuse to say something in a court of law they can also infer stuff from your silence that the jury can use it for a better decision.
I have two arguments for why this is a good idea.
First off on the purpose of courts.
We believe that courts are truth seeking in nature.
This is for two reasons.
First they are truth seeking in order to guarantee we get the most correct punishment and the most correct decision possible out of the court system.
Truth depends on the greatest access of information.
There are very few capital t he truths in our world that is to say things that are objectively true however the only way that we can discern between truths,the only way that we can make a educated decision is when there is as much information as possible.
Individuals remaining silent reduce that information and as such inherently reduce the efficacy of the court system.
Secondly though, rights should only protect the innocent while also ensuring justice.
There's an inherent tradeoff here and in certain cases it's okay to harm the innocent to a minor degree if it massively increases our chance of getting justice.
Now where does the right to silence fall within this ratio?
We would say that it almost never protecs the innocent.
If someone asks you did you kill that woman and you say no and you're telling the truth the ultimate result is that you will not be punished.
However if you are silent in the status quo people cannot infer anything from it.
We would say that this is fundamentally against justice.
All that will happen as a result of this sort of policy is that criminals will either remain silent to the benefit of the court or they will lie and get additional punishments creating a clear incentive for them to tell the truth or at the very least be silent so that the jury can infer things from their silence.
We would say that's far more likely that we'll get successful guilty verdicts in this world and actually guarantee that victims get the justice that they deserve.
My second argument is about the pragmatic values of crime reduction and truth within the court system.
First we think that cops will generally need to spend less time investigating trials.
We think that the primary purpose of police officers should be to prevent crimes and protect individuals in the short term rather than investigate previous crimes that have already occurred.
We would say that if a person is being silent, you can cops can then use that silence to get things like warrants or if they lie and you can disprove a lie and then you have to spend less information overall because it's very clear that they have committed the crime to prove that they're lying even if you can't prove that they have necessarily done any particular action.
Additionally we think that the general benefit of putting more people in jail to a just outcome when they are actually guilty means that people will be harmed less in the future victims will generally get more justice and the whole of society will be happier and safer.
For this reason that we should abolish the right to silence.