Home births should be banned.
A home birth is when someone gives birth in their home, pretty intuitively.
But it's really important that we model this debate very clearly.
What we're going to do is we're going to target home birth providers, individuals who plan around giving a home birth and are only available in the long term, that is to say with notice.
We are not going to target individuals who have an emergency birth, who are unable to get to the hospital and have a child in their home, or individuals who are hired only for emergencies to provide a home birth, if that's the only option provided to the family.
We're okay with home births slipping through the cracks, but we think it's incredibly important that we try as best as we can to regulate home births, and generally signal on behalf of the government that home births are unacceptable.
Two arguments for why they should be banned.
First is about danger.
We think there is profound danger to the mother when they give birth in the home.
A lot of the times a child can come out too large, which requires a caesarean section, a child may have its umbilical cord wrapped around its neck, a very common issue which requires a doctor to resolve, and on occasion mothers can lose considerable amounts of blood where an IV drip or even an infusion may be incredibly important or necessary.
We believe that home births simply cannot provide these kinds of checks.
We think that even a hospital that only had a a birthing wing, only had a section where individuals could give birth, would largely be unequipped to resolve all these issues that pose threat to the mother.
As such, because we think that we ought to decrease mortality as much as possible and the government has a clear obligation to do so, the government ought ban home births.
Secondly, we think that there's profound danger to the child.
A lot of the time the child once again is born with the umbilical cord around their neck, or is born with an immediate disease that requires treatment by the doctor.
The inability to get this kind of emergency care and to respond as quickly as possible increases the danger to the child, which we think is fundamentally unjust.
Once a child is born, it requires the greatest regulation and protection possible on behalf of the state, given that it has no ability to advocate on its own behalf.
We believe that the government is acting unjustly when it allows victims to particular action continue to suffer when they have no capacity to consent out of the situation.
My second argument is about regulation in general.
We think that there are considerable long-term harms that are uncheckable when individuals are born in the home.
This can include asthma because a child was not given the proper atmosphere during its birth, it can contain other diseases because the home was simply not sanitary enough, we think that hospitals are both far more likely to be sanitary and also have the opportunity to be sued or otherwise checked against, which increases the incentive to guarantee a child is actually safe upon birth.
Secondly though, we think that home births provide the potential for children to essentially be born off the grid.
This may seem like a far-fetched argument, but we see it in certain cases.
Children who are not given a birth certificate, children are not given a social security number.
This is incredibly problematic because into the long term, it essentially makes these childrens subject to their parents whim ad nauseum.
They have no opportunity to leave their situation because were they to leave the situation, they would have no official paperwork which would allow them to fend for themselves, get a job, or otherwise get social benefits that would allow them to live without a individual who's taking care of them.
As such, home births should be banned.