I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase drug testing.
Increasing drug testing is effectively putting the power of the state into the hands of private corporations.
Even if we thought that drug laws were effective and fair, we think that giving increased power of corporations to enforce the law over their employees with selective enforcement ultimately degrades trust between employer and employee, and ultimately leads to further disenfranchisement of already disenfranchised groups.
To that end, I have three arguments but first, some brief rebuttal.
My opponent's first argument is that by not enforcing drug policy and not testing for drugs, we are delegitimizing drug laws.
That's incredible.
We think that, first, drug laws are inherently unjust, as they largely put individuals in prison due to their preferences and with no clear third-party harms.
We think that prohibition always fails as expanding prohibition has allowed organized crime to take over the sale of drugs and massively murder thousands of individuals.
We see this now and we saw this in the past.
In the nineteen twenties with prohibition, we saw that organized crime was able to sell alcohol at a massive markup and expand their operations in a way that caused massive amounts of damage to law-abiding citizens.
By delegitimizing drug laws, we think that we are empowering individuals who are further harmed due to these sort of policies.
Not only that, we think that by decreasing the total amount of enforcement, individuals are far less likely to feel the actual harms of the law.
By delegitimizing the law while also targeting its unjust enforcement, we think that we massively expand the civil liberties of individuals who would like to consume drugs freely and without harming other individuals.
My opponent's second argument is that by doing this, we're going to hurt cartels.
This isn't the case at all.
First, if individuals are already addicted to drugs, they're not going to stop simply because testing increased.
Chemical dependency cannot be broken just because of a small chance of harm in an indeterminate amount of time.
Additionally, there's two ways in which these tests can be done.
They can either be surprise tests, in which case individuals will not change their consumption and will just be harmed as they weren't predicted to have a drug test in the first place or they can be announced drug tests, in which case individuals are unlikely to actually consume drugs beforehand but will simply increase their consumption afterwards to make up for the time that they lost.
Either way, demand does not change.
My first argument then is about personal versus the professional, how we have rights outside of what our employers give us.
We think that if drug use affects individuals' work, they're already caught in the status quo.
If I can't fill out my paperwork because I'm too high on cocaine, then I should be fired and I am already.
However, expanding drug testing ultimately means that employers are pushing their own policies and the policies of government on their employees in an unjust way.
We think that employers are abridging the rights of individuals to have a life outside of work that ought not be governed by their boss.
Additionally, we think that corporations already have a massive unjust asymmetry of power.
They can fire you for essentially any reason in most states and, even in states that allow or that force them to have some reason that they fired you, it's incredibly easy to make one up or find small mistakes which justify letting you go.
As such, increasing drug testing degrades trust and ultimately destroys morale for many individuals.
My second argument is that this is a massive harm to many individuals.
We think that's the worst response to drug use.
Now if I'm a drug user, I'm unemployed, there's a mark on my record, I can't find other employment, so I turn to theft and I'm further disenfranchised and pushed into cycles of poverty which make it far more difficult to break my chemical dependency.
My third argument is this is applied applied unfairly to certain groups.
We see this with the massive incarceration rate in our country, primarily of people of color.
These sort of drug laws are inherently unjust and, as such, we should not increase drug testing.