I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should abandon online dating.
Online dating is a tool in the toolbox for many individuals.
The vast majority of relationships are still found through conventional means.
What this means is that individuals who have not found success with conventional dating, who have found it problematic or otherwise difficult to engage with, can use online dating to find love.
All that online dating does is provide rational individuals, who are the best arbiters of their own good, the ability to determine who best to spend the rest of their life with.
By taking it away, we remove the ability for these people to find love, and ultimately decrease the total number of relationships.
With that in mind, I have an overview followed by two arguments.
My overview is about how the alternatives are considerably worse.
We think that the alternatives to online dating are not people just walking into a sunny park and having a nice chat with someone else.
There are bars, it is clubs, it is problematic areas where people are forced into contact that they regularly do not want.
I will discuss this later in my first argument, but first I want to go on to some some extraneous rebuttal.
My opponent's first argument is about happiness, how this might seem disingenuous, or it might decrease total happiness.
It is truly unclear why this is the case.
First, we think in a direct comparison between bars and online dating, individuals are usually more happy in the comfort of their own home, learning about the person before they go on a date with them.
But secondly, as I said before, bars are not an alternative tool to online dating.
Individuals still use bars on our side of the house when they can access online dating.
In fact, the vast majority of people still use conventional means.
All that online dating does is provide people an alternate avenue.
So rather than weighing, say, bars versus online dating, you should be weighing online dating versus someone who has no opportunity and no chance to get a date.
This clearly shows that people are happier on our side of the house.
A second argument is that this is a dehumanizing action.
So we don't think that seeing people as prey, seeing people as something to chase, seeing someone as something to conquer, which regularly occurs in bars and and clubs where individuals use abusive or otherwise problematic tactics, is the best way to see the world.
Instead, we think that seeing someone holistically, letting them list their own traits and advertise themself as they see fit is the best way for individuals to find one another and engage with one another in a meaningful sense.
Instead of dehumanizing people, you simply engage with them on the other side of a screen.
This might have been a concern in two thousand two when the internet was new, but we understand that people on the other side of the screen are actual human beings, particularly when it's a one-on-one situation and not a forum.
As such, we actually believe that there is a better situation of humanization on our side of the house than my opponent's.
Now my first argument is about the power dynamics of online dating.
We think that online dating actually decreases the total amount of like assault and harassment towards women particularly.
Why is the case?
In bars and in clubs, we see that people are regularly harassed, regularly pushed around, regularly pressured by individuals to take particular actions they may not meaningful consent to.
Online dating allows women to screen every single individual who swipes right, every single person who likes your profile, and actually decide whether they are a good person.
This allows you to research them first, guarantee that they're not a harmful individual, and otherwise protect yourself.
Is also good for minorities and people who are regularly stunted by the conventional world.
If you are unable to find someone in your area because the vast majority of people shun you because of your skin color or, at the very least, claim they're not attracted to you because of it, online dating allows you to reach out to a wider net and actually engage with people who are either attracted to you or who belong to your own ethnicity, allowing you to always make the choice that you see most fit.
My second argument is about efficiency.
We first think that online dating is more accurate.
It's a load of BS that opposites attract.
Honestly, most people date people who are similar to them, and online dating facilitates that.
Secondly, we think that the lower cost means that people can still live a busy, happy life and engage in the dating sphere, which is impossible in my opponent's side of the house.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.