I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase the workweek.
Anyone who's advocating this policy has clearly never worked a full-time job.
They don't understand what it means to work forty, fifty or sixty hours per week.
Presumably, anyone who implemented this plan would take your average salaried worker, check the amount of hours they work, and increase it.
That means that if the average person works forty and spends the rest of their time with their children or going to school, they now have to work, say, fifty.
If they work fifty and spend the rest of the time on their hobbies, well, now they have to work sixty.
And if there's someone who works sixty to seventy per week, we're just going to remove their sleep.
We're gonna force them to work eighty hours a week, force them to work as much the most pressed in our society.
No matter how many hours you work per week, it's hours you have decided.
People know that more money is a good thing but they've decided, at a certain point, there's diminishing returns.
For instance, I work about forty five hours a week.
I understand that I could make one point times five my regular pay if I worked an extra twenty hours, but I refuse to do so because it takes away from my personal time.
It takes away from time that I could be doing other things that are important to me.
Increasing the work week would not increase efficiency.
It would not help anyone and, ultimately, would be bad for the world writ large.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first about quality of life.
Now, how do we measure the good?
Usually, we talk about increases to the economy, increases to health, increases to individuals' ability to buy things, manufacture things cheaply, just generally good things.
But those aren't actually the good.
We presume that a better economy means more jobs, means more happy people.
We presume that more healthy people means more exercise, more moderation and, ultimately, happier people.
At the end of it all, we're asking how do we make people happier?
How do we improve their quality of life?
How do we generally help people now and into the future?
It's incredibly clear that passing this kind of policy would diminish people's quality of life.
It would reduce their autonomy by forcing them to work more hours than they want.
It would make them less happy.
It would make them more irritable.
Individuals would have to give up their hobbies, would have to spend less time with their children.
Ultimately, this would echo out to the entirety of society.
Not only do we think that individuals personally would be less happy, but we also think their children would be less happy, those around them would be less happy.
Their coworkers would be less happy, both because of the increased work time and because everyone at work is more angry and more likely to snap at one another.
Increasing the work week would make people less happy and either put more money into the hands of the wealthy or simply hurt the economy writ large, neither of which are actually a good thing.
This brings me to my second argument: efficiency.
This is why it wouldn't actually increase the amount of money going into the economy.
A happy worker is an efficient worker.
If morale is high, people are far more efficient.
If everyone has to work, say, ten percent more hours per week, an extra hour, hour and a half, they see their children less.
First, we think they'll just be less productive.
If they have to stock shelves, they'll do it more slowly.
If they have to write code, they'll use less ingenuity and take more shortcuts.
Ultimately, total efficiency goes down.
We also think this could spill over into people's work, particularly in customer service.
If I'm an IT worker and I have to work ten extra hours a week, I'm far more likely to snap at customers, refuse to help them, or otherwise be a nuisance.
This further degrades their morale, diminishing the total efficacy of our economy writ large.
The diminished efficiency coupled with the decreased quality of life means everyone's pay, even the uber-wealthy, goes down, while their happiness decreases as well.
To this end, we should not increase the workweek.