We should ban full body scanners.
Although there are are a variety of tools which are effective in stopping terrorism, full body scanners simply are not one of them.
Even if they were, it would be unacceptable to violate the rights of citizens simply because a simple increase in security is what the government wants.
In the same way that it would be unacceptable to stop every single individual and pat them down for a gun, we think full body scanners necessarily violate the rights of individuals by searching their bodies without their consent.
With that mind, I have two arguments.
First off, privacy.
We think privacy is an inherent right.
Without the ability to have privacy.
Government abuse is inevitable.
Privacy guarantees that the government cannot search our goods without having meaningful cause.
We would say that our body is an extension of our goods.
If my watch is necessary under my control, if my if what I build is necessarily under my control, it must come from some inherent ownership of my own labor.
The ownership of my labor it necessarily stems from the ownership of my body as that is what exerts my labor and it is what has allowed me to necessarily contribute back to society which creates a social contract which creates obligations to our government.
With that mind, we would say it is only acceptable to search our bodies in situations where we have committed a crime or where there is an immediate need.
We think that security risks do not justify this.
Simply look to the example I gave before where it would be more safe if we searched every single individual for a gun what would necessarily violate their rights to privacy.
These privacy rights are important both because our inherent need for privacy, our like of privacy, but also because it stops the government from abusing us.
If the government could search every single idea we have, could search every single document we've created, could search every single thing we've hidden, it would necessarily be able to threaten us with a litany of abuses.
Things like the laws guarantee that any preference we had could necessarily be punished by the government but also we commit minor infractions all the time.
These infractions can be things like jaywalking, could be eating a kinder surprise, could be anything which the government has deemed illegal eventhough they're a benign harm and do not actually cause any harms to others.
As such we think that full body scanners decreasing our privacy are necessarily unjust.
The obvious response to this is that we consent into this action every time that we fly and every time that we actually would otherwise use a full body scanner.
Because these full body scanners aren't used in most situations if we put ourselves in a situation where a full body scanner is used it is our fault.
However the response this is quite simple.
We think the right to transportation is inherent.
If I cannot fly, I cannot express my preference is to leave the country, I cannot visit with other individuals, as such putting a rights violative action as a prerequisite to accessing my right to transportation and mobility is necessarily decreasing and violating the obligations of government.
My second argument is about security theater.
We think that full body scanners aren't actually that effective.
It's been proven time and time again by security experts that they can smuggle in bombs and other weapons eventhough they have been subject to a full body scan.
As such we think that full body scanners create a sense of complacency.
If I see full body scanners and think they're effective, I will no longer push for real change which can actually stop terrorism and violence.
With this in mind, we would say that terrorism and violence will necessarily increase as long as we allow for ineffective security measures to be in place.
For this reason, we should ban full body scanners.
Thank you.