We should ban human cloning.
Our understanding of humanity stems from the idea that humans are an extension of nature.
The philosophical tradition which ascribes rights individuals and underlies many of our ethical systems, is based on a rich philosophical traditions stemming back to the idea that we come from nature and some way come from god.
Although we would say that natural rights no longer depend on the idea that god created us.
Giving the power of total life and death to humans, fundamentally undermines our understanding of humanity and it leads to a system where human cloning can be easily abused.
With that in mind, we propose the following model that we ban all cloning where the end result is a cognizant human.
This means that you can still clone kidneys, organs, anything that would supplement an already living human.
However, we would say the creation of a brand new human or just a new living being using existing DNA ought to be banned.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First, the threatens our understanding of humanity.
Since the middle of the twentieth century, when early clone technology is created, we have been fundamentally altering our understanding of humanity's place in the world.
Initially, humans stemmed from god and stemmed from other individuals.
You would say that all rights dependent depended on the idea that we were inherently interlinked and that we were inherently equal at birth.
We would say that cloning, by giving certain individuals particular power over life and also making it so certain individuals come from a truly distinct and other place, threatens the idea that all humans are equal and threatens our understanding of ethics and law in general.
At the point where certain individuals particularly the wealthy can create life towards their own end, we would say that the idea that humans inherently have rights inherently derive their rights from something in nature would be threatened and as such, individuals would more easily be able to justify abuses against rights in general.
As such, we would say that any system which undermines a system of rights which is essential to prevent oppression ought to be abandoned.
The second argument that this is easily abused.
Regulations on technology which are not absolute are incredibly difficult to enforce.
Telling individuals that they can clone other cognizant human beings in certain circumstances will lead to situations where abuse is inevitable.
When in vitro fertilization was first created early fetuses were killed, they were dissected, decapitated.
This led to the adoption of rules like the fourteen day rule.
An absolute ban on growing a fetus past fourteen days.
We would say that in the same vein a total ban on human cloning, human cloning that creates a cognizant being, must be adopted.
If we do not have an absolute ban, humans will be cloned and then treated incredibly poorly in lab settings.
We see that this is inevitable with animal subjects and we think that it would be incredibly difficult to stop with human subjects as well.
At the point where the rights belonging to a human our documentation of the human depends on the compliance of other labs, we would say that inevitably human beings will be abused and as such, we would say that instead we should just adopt a blanket ban to ensure efficacy.
Thank you.