I stand in firm opposition of the motion, we should subsidize the use of gasoline.
Gasoline is an incredible pollutant and it does not need to be subsidized.
The most profitable industry on earth is the production, extraction, and sale of gasoline.
The largest companies on earth and some of the wealthiest people on earth got their money by selling gasoline, so it is antithetical to our democracy, to fairness, to capitalism, even, to subsidize it.
Ultimately, subsidizing gasoline would distort market prices, put money in the hands of the wrong people, and increase the rate at which our environment is destroyed.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first that the subsidization of gasoline is regressive.
Two main reasons why, first off on the consumer side.
We think that people in poverty are far less likely to get the major benefits from subsidizing gasoline.
Why is this the case?
The poorest individuals, the homeless, the individuals on the edge of homelessness, those in extreme poverty don't usually own cars.
They usually take public transportation, they usually walk, they usually bike.
Owning a car is incredibly expensive, first, in terms of the upfront capital costs, but secondly, because of the upkeep costs and insurance costs that charge month after month after month.
As such, we think the middle class and the upper class are far more likely to benefit as a result of this.
Even for people who own cars, they don't get an additional benefit past individuals who are uber-wealthy.
As such, it's at best a flat tax.
That is to say, it takes money from every single individual and gives it back to every individual equally, which is fundamentally unfair.
Secondly under this aggressive point, though, is who gets the benefit as a result of subsidization?
It's not the people extracting the oil.
It's not the people selling the oil.
The person behind the register isn't going to get a bonus as a result of this.
They've already accepted they would work for a certain wage, and they're not going to be able to use a political decision as leverage to increase their money.
As such, all that will happen is maybe there'll be a fifteen percent decrease in the price of gasoline if it's a massive subsidy, but for each cent that decreases in terms of the gasoline price, there's going to be massive bonuses paid to the wealthiest people, the owners of these oil companies.
Executives will see huge bonuses and payouts, but the average person really won't see a benefit.
Subsidizing gasoline is profoundly regressive, because it takes money from the whole of the population and gives it to those who need it the least.
My second argument is about environmental harms.
We think the market has already decided the price of gasoline.
It's decided the benefits versus the harms and, ultimately, it's underestimated the harms.
The average person does not internalize the total harms of gasoline.
Their individual consumption only changes their mobility, it doesn't actually affect how they themselves experience the environment.
Only the totality of gasoline consumption affects that, that doesn't change individual incentives.
What we see is with the subsidization of gasoline, the usage of it increases massively, past the point that individuals even get meaningful individual benefits from it, while increasing the rate at which the environment is destroyed.
That is to say, the individual benefits don't match up with the societal benefits, and they're already it's already being overconsumed.
Subsidization increases consumption even further, accelerating the rate of global warming, destroying biosystems, ecosystems, biomass and, honestly, it poses an existential threat to all of humanity.
To that end, we should not subsidize the use of gasoline.