I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should ban tower blocks.
Tower blocks provide a much needed resource for the people in poverty.
That is to say it provides shelter.
All that tower blocks do is guarantee that individuals who would not otherwise be able to access housing can actually access a home with a kitchen, living room, and bedroom.
By banning tower blocks we both restrict the rights of private citizens while also harming the poorest in our society in a massive way.
I have two arguments, but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent talks at length about the harms of density.
About why putting people in close proximity with one another will inherently lead to problems.
The issue is that if the alternative is individuals living on the street, individuals cannot afford housing at all, going hungry, we would generally see considerably worse conditions.
First, because we think that individuals who are out on the street generally decrease the total well being of society, both because they reduce people's happiness as they see them there, consume massive amounts of welfare resources, more than they would actually require for subsidized housing, and additionally are more likely to commit crimes, as if you are starving that's generally what you do.
With that in mind, we think that the comparative in this debate is not between someone living in a luscious townhouse or a a tower lot, but instead individuals living in on the streets verses living in a high rise.
And essentially this subsidized housing which would otherwise allow them to articulate themselves in the best way possible.
Now my first argument is about how this is inherently classist.
We think that getting rid of this amount of housing will generally lead to a massive increase in the price of housing.
How do we see is affecting individuals and how do we see this coming about?
First we think that as you destroy these tower blocks, what you will see is individuals flooding the housing market, massively increasing the demand for housing while reducing the total supply.
As a result, individuals who first lose the tower block housing will be left homeless.
Secondly, individuals who are middle class and renting apartments will have to compete, for more individuals could be in the same area.
This means that the total price of housing generally increases, pushing people who aren't even living in the tower blocks into poverty.
The result of this kind of policy is that individuals either live on the street as I discussed before or have to spend a greater amount of their disposable income on their rent.
This is problematic as if individuals cannot save for retirement and if individuals cannot actually have fun, they will live a incredibly worse quality of life, but additionally require massive amounts of welfare resources later into life.
We think that individuals should generally be subsidized, insofar as we minimize the costs that governments have to be taking on in terms of health care, in terms of transportation and in terms of trying to subsidize housing.
This means that if we can prove that having these tower blocks actually decreases the costs on behalf of government, we ought to have them.
My second argument though is about government overstep.
Because we think that governments might have the incentive to stop creating tower blocks but there's no reason to ban them outright if a company wants to create them.
This is because first, we have a right over our property.
We believe that if the government can step in and define how we use our property then it inherently loses value and inherently lose our ability to articulate ourselves in the marketplace of ideas, and ultimately makes it so we are slaves to the bureaucracy which we have very little power over as individuals.
As such, if government wants to define how we use our land it must inherently purchase it.
Otherwise, banning our ability to use our land for certain purposes ultimately makes it so that we are worse off in general.
The only way in which government can ban the use of land for certain purposes is a, if it is inherently antagonistic to the individuals in the area, we think that building an ugly house might make people unhappy but generally isn't a reason to ban someone from actually being able to access their land, and as such we should not ban tower blocks.