We should legalize public nudity.
The only reason that public nudity is a law in this country is because certain individuals have puritanical ideas and believe that the body is inherently sinful or problematic.
These ideas should not be reflected in our policy and certainly should not be putting people in jail or landing people with a large fine.
For this reason we would support the following model: that all western liberal democracies should immediately legalize public nudity.
This does not mean that individuals can be obscene or can essentially be sexual towards certain other people, they're simply allowed to exist without clothing.
That is to say if I'm walking down the street in cloths or unclothed I should be treated the same.
But if I start making advances towards people if I start urinating on the streets I can still be punished under other laws.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first is on the criminalization of homelessness.
Many individuals in western liberal democracies are denied shelters simply because they don't have the economic means to reach it.
Furthermore individuals are regularly homeless both simply because of chance or happenstance or the bad economy, but also because of mental illnesses.
These individuals need to be able to change in the streets if they ever want to change their clothes.
Because we believe these people deserve some certain human dignity, deserve the ability to change their clothes, we believe it ought not be criminalized for them to go nude for brief periods of time.
In the status quo we put individuals in jail, because they are homeless, due to odd policies like this.
This is essentially a way for us to clean up the streets, in a manner of speaking, in a way that is fundamentally dehumanizing.
We believe that this continues cycles of poverty when you put individuals in jail and deny them further economic opportunities, because no one wants to hire the sex offender who was at one point publicly nude simply because they were changing.
Because there is always a competition for jobs, if individuals have this on the record they cannot raise themselves out of homelessness and poverty and we are being fundamentally unjust as a society.
My second argument is that we reduce the norms of chastity and -tanical norms in our country and around the world.
We believe that many harms in the status quo are due to these problematic norms that we see.
When individuals are denied abortion rights it is typically on religious ends.
When individuals cannot be themselves in public when they, when being trans or gay is banned, this is because we are steeped in the ideology of of puritans, of chastity, which we must necessarily remove from all political spheres.
This is the first step, is removing public nudity as a criminal offense, as it will clearly signal to the government and all people that these norms are outdated and that they ought past different policies.
My third argument is on gender equality.
Obviously in the status quo men can not go completely nude.
In the world that we are defending they could.
However, we see massive harms in the status quo where women cannot essentially go around shirtless, cannot go around without a bra, because of policies which says that that is a criminal offense and criminally nude.
This is problematic for a few reasons: first, we think that individuals, by having their body controlled by the government, fundamentally have their autonomy controlled as well.
When the government says that it is it is so fundamental that it deserves the power to determine what you wear and who you are, is abusing the rights of its citizens.
But secondly, individuals are regularly harassed or condemned due to things like breast feeding in public, even though it is a necessity for them to continue going about their daily lives.
We believe that signaling that public nudity is legal will also decrease the stigma around things like breast feeding, because the nude aspects of it which are being criticized will stop being a public moral bad.
For this reason we should legalize public nudity.