I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon disposable diapers.
Disposable diapers may not seem like a luxury that is required for the modern individual to live however, we think that it by allowing individuals to access disposable diapers we improve consumer choice, benefit their convenience, and improve the comfort and health of children.
As a brief overview I want to address why we think that this choice is incredibly beneficial given the sort of context.
This is generally regarding the consumer choice in my first argument.
We think that is always preferable to have a world where people can pick how they spend their money and how they allocate their time.
Why is this important?
First, we generally think that individual liberty is incredibly important.
When individuals have more options, they are far more likely to have a better life overall.
It is impossible for a government, it is impossible for a debater to understand the niche benefits that individuals get from certain products.
As such, by labeling a product inherently bad or saying that individuals should be barred from buying a particular good, we think that individuals will always live a worse quality of life due to the lack of options.
Secondly though, we think that individuals utilize the options that best suit them.
Why is this important?
Because if the individuals who use non-disposable diapers in the status quo are those who can afford to wash them regularly, are the ones who have the time and energy to use them instead of disposable diapers.
We think that most of my opponent's arguments generally come from a position where they argue that the people who use non-disposable diapers live more happy and healthy lives.
However, this ignores the reality of the fact that the individuals who do not use non-disposable diapers now do it for a reason and that reason is that they simply do not have the time, energy, or money to do it.
As such, we think they're far more likely to use non-disposable diapers in a way that is incredibly harmful as I will address in my next two arguments.
My second argument is about convenience.
We think that many individuals like to take their children outside, like to take them on the go, however, with a non-disposable diaper you have two options: either a, you can have a huge number of non-disposable diapers on hand while also having room to sort every dirty disposable diaper which most people simply do not have the bag space for.
Additionally, you must purchase numerous non-disposable diapers to guarantee that your child won't have to wear a soiled diaper for a considerable amount of time.
People -n poverty simply do not have this kind of money.
Non-disposable diapers are not just cloth draped around a child.
They are regularly it's fairly advanced technology.
They require a pouch, essentially, that can hold all of the excrement of a child while at the same time not ruining someone's bag when it's put away and at the same time be washable and reusable.
This kind of convenience is simply impossible for many individuals to access and as such, abandoning disposable diapers make many individuals essentially locked into their home, unable to take the child out, making it so both the parent and the child suffers.
My third and final argument is about comfort and health.
So you can't really clean a disposable or a non-disposable diaper on the go.
You do not have more you are just out of luck.
This is true for disposable diapers as well whoever, first, we think that disposable diapers are more easy to access they can buy a new one if you need to in the short term.
Second, you are far more likely to have extra on hand simply because they're so cheap.
Third, you can borrow them from other individuals.
No one's going to give you their non-disposable diaper cause they're too expensive to let go but they could give you a disposable diaper and additionally, we would say that this argument is further strengthened by the fact that the people who don't use non-disposable diapers now are the people who are probably the most forget, the people who are most likely not to have the time, energy, or money to regularly clean and use these kinds of goods.
As such, children's health and comfort will suffer which is an unacceptable price to pay simply for a negligible impact on our environment.
For this reason, we should not abandon disposable diapers.