I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should introduce goal-line technology.
We think that goal-line technology doesn't really introduce anything good to the game.
Look to soccer for an example.
We see that a lot of people were hesitant to introduce video referees or goal-line technology because they understood that it took some of the magic away from the game, it took some of the art away from the game and ultimately made it so referees would spend more time on the computers than actually looking at the field.
We don't think that goal-line technology makes the sport more enjoyable at all.
In fact it makes it far more slow, far more expensive, and just not nearly as fun.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that's all about the spirit of the game and that fairness is the most important thing, this is fundamentally untrue.
We think that first, they compose their entire idea of fairness as one in which teams shouldn't be afraid of always losing or always winning, shouldn't feel like the game is predetermined for or against them.
It's largely unclear how goal-line technology fixes this problem.
It's not like one side's gonna get a massive advantage because goal-line technology is now in place.
What we think happens as a result is that we just give a bit more power and discretion to referees.
My opponent talks about fairness and how fairness is the most important thing but I'll address this in my second argument but first I want to talk about how expensive introducing goal-line technology is.
Recognize that they say we're going to do it at all levels above children so at the competitive high school level, at all college levels, at all professional levels we'll see goal-line technology.
This cut requires really expensive cameras, well-trained referees and ultimately makes it so a lot of these sports become prohibitively expensive.
Either a, you charge people to be part of a league which will have to happen at the college level and will have to happen at any level where there's not advertising which we ultimately think will result in people leaving the sport altogether.
The alternative is that you spend ad revenue or take the money away from the players that you'd otherwise be giving to them.
We see this at the professional level but we also think this is unfair.
No player would say " yes pay me thousands of dollars less every single year just so you can check whether or not my goals are more or less legitimate " because they understand that referees are largely fair.
The cost that comes as a result of goal-line technology ultimately makes it so that technology prohibitive and reduces the total access to the sport.
If my opponent wants to talk about fairness, if they want talk about people being happy watching the sport, none of these things can exist if these sports don't exist at any particular level.
My second argument is about the exciting nature of the game.
Why do we think that goal-line technology makes things less exciting?
First, it makes the games far more slow.
Every single time the referee has a call, every single time that they want to check a part of the field they have to check the cameras.
They have to go through the whole clip millimeter by millimeter and make sure the ball didn't pass the goal, make sure it didn't pass the outside foul lines.
As a result, we think that this takes time out of the game.
A lot of people don't like baseball because it's a slow game that requires a lot of downtime throughout.
People watch baseball, basketball and football instead as a result.
However, we think that goal-line technology will ultimately expand the length of every single game making them more or less the same or the very least less unique and diminishing people's access and enjoyment of the game.
Second though we think that it makes it so people have less ability to do good saves and good stops.
If someone's able to stop the ball at the goal what where the referee literally can't tell the difference, they should be rewarded.
We shouldn't take away that from them just because it may have passed the goal by a tiny tiny bit.
We think that in the world where we don't have goal-line technology you give greater discretion to judges and allow them to actually decide when and where the ball past the line and to reward really impressive saves.
For this reason, we should not introduce goal-line technology.