We should ban foreign workers.
Companies in the united states frequently import their labor force in order to pay them far less money than skilled labor in the united states.
We believe that each country has some autonomy in deciding their labor and immigration laws, however, it is fundamentally unacceptable when a state defines labor a particular way, defines regulation a particular way, and yet a company decides to station themselves in the country and yet import cheaper labor.
We think the cost of of working in a first world country should be hiring first world workers.
It is fine if the country decides to move somewhere else, however, it is fundamentally unacceptable when it attempts to get the best of both worlds, leaving first world employees out of work, while they continue to benefit from the profoundly large markets that have developed in places like the united states.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that foreign work visas be ended.
People can still emigrate to the to the united states, however, as if they are in the united states purely to work, they will be asked to leave after a year or two and no further work visas will be issued.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first off is backlash.
We think that when a lot of people come to the united states from foreign countries, you see a lot more hate.
Unfortunately, contact with other people from other countries is almost always negative.
When you actually actually get to sit down with someone and talk with them, you do humanize them.
But when you're just driving to work every day and the person who cuts you off is from a country that isn't the united states, that's where you start to develop hate, that's where you start to develop simple biases.
We think it's particularly bad with foreign workers because: one, they are explicitly here to take united states jobs, which we think makes a lot of people angry.
Even if there are enough jobs to go around, they push down the wages that US workers can actually demand, given that foreign workers are now inflating the total supply of labor.
But secondly, we think that they largely make skilled labor in the united states angry at immigrants as well, because a lot of foreign workers that are imported to the united states are actually here for skilled labor positions.
That's where most of our h one b visas go.
As such, we think that both wealthy and poor people start to move against immigrants.
This allows both democrats and republicans to pass anti-immigrant policies, while still remaining to have power and still catering to their constituents.
This leads to things like the weakening of hate crime legislation, further restrictions on immigration, and the willingness to actually support racist policies in the parts of the country where we see far more problematic police departments.
My second argument is simply about jobs.
As I stated briefly in my introduction, we believe that each company makes a choice when they go to a particular place.
When you go to the US, you accept that you have to pay more for labor, pay more for regulations.
But you also get to benefit from a massive amount of treaties which benefit US trade, the markets in the united states where you can cater to us immediately, the lack of transportation costs to go to places like canada, mexico and US markets, and we think it's unfair to try to, say, import credibly cheap labor from southeast asia just to get around the cost of paying US workers.
This fundamentally shortchanges the united states and further disincentivizes things like improving our state of affairs or actually making it a fun or habitable place for companies to be.
My third and final argument is just about corporate responsibility.
We think that corporations are far more easy it's far easier for corporations to abuse their workers when they're foreign workers.
When your boss can essentially say, " I will send you back to a country with a worse quality of living if you disobey me in any way, " we think that workers have no rights.
This also spills over to US workers as a culture where there's a lack of reporting and a lack of support largely harms everyone.
For this reason, we should ban foreign workers.