Cycles of poverty begin at a very young age.
The refusal to provide poor children resources contributes hugely to their inability to get jobs, or otherwise increase their social standing, throughout their lives.
A huge reason, why there is stratification in our society, why wealth can be maintained in the most powerful individuals, is the fact that private education is incredibly prevalent.
Because we oppose this inherent inequality, we would say that private education should be banned in all western liberal democracies.
We believe that this is the only way around the use of private education, by wealthy individuals.
Recognize, that in every single state, wealth has the ability to get around laws.
The less severe a law, the easier it is to avoid it.
As such, we would say that banning is the only way to effectively enforce the will of the state, to get rid of a private education.
Two points of of substantive material to support this motion.
First, we believe that private education leads to educational stratification.
The wealthiest students go to private schools.
It is where they can create the most connections, where they are likely to get the best education, and because no individual wealthy student can create a change, whether they go to private or public schools, we believe that there's never an incentive to actually leave the private school system, because you're not creating effective social change, and you're simply short changing your child.
What this does is drain funds from public school.
Private schools move into an area, and crowd out public schools, by first creating wealthy tax areas.
When there's a private school, which serves a certain region, they're less likely to draw the public school within that region, because they don't want their tax money going to a school that their children are not going to themselves.
But additionally, if you do include a public school in a wealthy tax area, where most children from wealthy households are going to the private school, they're far more likely to vote for low taxes.
This means that public schools cannot flourish in these areas, and are far less likely to actually exist in wealthy areas.
Because property tax pays for public public school in the united states, and similar taxes pay for public school around the world, public schools lose a huge amount of resources, and poor kids get short changed.
The money when you decrease the amount of money going to a private school, and mix it in with the public school funds instead, the money will go much further.
Instead of buying another apple mac book for a student in a private school, that money is now paying for additional teachers, and smaller class sizes to teach everyone more effectively.
Very simply, this is not a zero sum game.
When you take the money for private school and put it in public school, the money goes considerably further.
But secondly, we think just on a societal level, increasing the funding to public school, at the cost of private school, is better for societal good.
We think that when you empower people in poverty, you empower the people who are less likely to be represented in the market, and less able to actually access capital, and as such are likely to get better products, more diverse products, more diverse work environments, and a better economy writ large.
Now, the second independent argument is that this inequality is inherently bad.
Even if decreasing the funding the public or private schools doesn't actually improve public schools at all, creating a level playing field is inherently good.
First, because people in poverty deserve this, as there's a reciprocal obligation to help them after they've been harmed in the past, or otherwise been unrepresented, in government, but secondly there's a fairness level to it, it's unclear why the lottery of birth should determine where individuals end up in life, so creating a level playing field is inherently good.
But the third reason why this inequality is inherently bad, is that this inequality will always reflect throughout their lives.
Wealthy individuals already have huge safety nets, but people in poverty have a hard time accessing things like college, or otherwise breaking the cycle of poverty, but creating equal playing fields, for all individuals, are a lot more provide people in poverty better opportunity of access to things like college, and jobs as well.
For this reason, we are so proud to support this motion.
Thank you.