I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish the monarchy.
The monarchy guarantees that we have professional trained leaders who have been reared in a tradition of effective governance.
The only way that we can guarantee that people are truly ready for their job is if they have the most training possible.
Unfortunately in the status quo what we see is individuals who are largely in equipped to fight for democracy or fight for their own ideology.
As such, we get a worse form of government which is largely based on patronage and empowerment but not self-empowerment through ideology or self-empowerment through effective policy but instead self-empowerment in terms of wealth and power.
I have three arguments for why we should not abolish the monarchy.
First is about training and rearing of children to be leaders.
In the status quo, if you want to be a senator you simply have to run for that position.
Individuals may have former political experience however, we don't think that this is all individuals but we also don't think that being say a comptroller locally will prepare someone for creating laws.
However, in systems of monarchy, children are trained in how best to pass laws and how best to govern their people such that they actually have an effective society and maintain their rule.
By ensuring that each individual who controls government is trained in the best way to actually empower the people, we think that the monarchy will always create a better leader than the presidency.
We don't think the monarchy is inherently the idea that you give power to the like eldest born son, you can give it to whatever child you see fit as long as is through the royal rule and as such, we think that monarchs can guarantee the longest ruled by putting the most effective leader in place which will make sure that the individuals in power actually effective governors.
My second argument is about efficiency.
We think that bureaucracy we think that fighting for political goals is largely inefficient.
Many senators and legislatures around the world spend over a third of their time just fighting for money and fighting for their own campaigns.
We believe if you were to do away with this waste you would actually have a far more effective government which can pass laws without being afraid of losing their power or losing the faith of the people.
Because you save time on things like campaigning you inherently save money because you can pass laws far more easily.
You save you are able to immediately mobilize state resources to help the people and as such, we think that the monarchy is far more efficient in allocating resources than a democracy.
Our third argument is that individuals in the monarchy are far more likely to hold their leadership to a higher bar than a democracy.
This may seem counterintuitive but it's true, given that individuals in a democracy are almost never going to overthrow the government.
What we mean by this is that if you have terrible leader after terrible leader they'll just continue voting in individuals who continue to fit your ideology of what might be a good leader.
They can continue to be terrible.
They can continue to run your government into the ground and make everyone's lives worse but you're never going to have a coup d'etat or otherwise fight against the government if you can continue to elect new individuals.
For monarchs if they are terrible and there's no recourse in terms of changing who they are, you are far more likely to get the coup d'etats and the fight against them are far more likely to be meaningful.
We think that the guillotine is probably the greatest incentive possible to ensure that individuals actually fight for the people.
If my choices get unelected after getting rich and powerful then after doing passing bad policy I'm just gonna pass bad policy but if my choice is pass bad policy and then get my head chopped off I'm actually going to try the best to help the people.
For this reason, we should not abolish the monarchy.