We should subsidize public transportation.
In the status quo, public transportation is vitally underused.
This is for a few reasons.
First, because it is too expensive second, because many cities do not support it to the degree that they need but additionally, there's also a stigma against public transportation due to the fact that most people don't use it and cars are seen as a status symbol.
I will discuss why we alleviate all three of these by subsidizing public transportation but first, I will propose a model.
The model is that the united states federal government should substantially subsidize public transportation.
This means that they'll pay for say half the bus ticket, they will pay for half the subway ticket, they will decrease the cost of public transportation by half while also massively increasing their investment into new transportation technology and the expansion of existing technology.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, on the environmental effects of cars.
In the status quo, cars release mass amounts of COTwo and smog which destroy the area that they're in as well as the atmosphere.
We believe that increasing public transportation is a vital tool in the fight against global warming.
Because cars release a massive portion of our total greenhouse gases, changing car use and replacing it with public transportation will also decrease the amount of global warming that occurs.
It is important as global warming has two major effects.
First the short term.
It is currently pushing individuals in the global south and in poor areas around the world out of their towns and causing them to move to new countries.
This is unjust given that these individuals suffer the loss of their homes, their cultures, and all of their capital additionally unjust as it creates refugee crises which cause more violence and more hatred around the world.
Additionally, the destruction of environments over all lead to a worse quality of life for all people.
The destruction of coral reefs and rainforest has led to a massive decrease in the total amount of fauna in the world which will hurt all individuals in the long run.
Additionally, we believe that if global warming is not solved, eventually the existential destruction of all humanity will occur.
This is generally seen as a bad thing and as such, we need to fight global warming wherever it occurs as fast as possible.
This'll both to be important in the total decrease in the amount of global warming which occurs but also lead to a precedent which allow other individuals to decrease their greenhouse gases as well.
Additionally, the environmental effects of cars also just releases smog, releases pollutants which lead to things like asthma, lead destroy local areas and are generally problematic.
My second argument is about poverty alleviation.
In the status quo, many individuals exist in poverty because they do not have the money for a car or because when they have to have a car, it cost them mass amounts of money because being pore is actually incredibly expensive.
If I have to buy a very old car and get repairs regularly, buy gas rarely, I will spend more money than a wealthy person would in the long run.
The proliferation of public transportation makes this better in a few ways.
First, there'll be more routes.
This means that as you increase the total investment in public transportation, it'll bring you to different places and different places faster.
Secondly, there's generally a return to scale as you have more bus drivers, as you have more tracks you can change the schedule more easily, put them in different places more easily, cover shifts with more frequency and as such, be a more reliable system overall.
Third and finally, we think that having a better technology will increase the total comfort which comes from public transportation decreasing the stigma surrounding it and generally having a more efficient system overall.
This brings me to my final argument very quickly, by decreasing the total number of cars on the road you decrease congestion which costs trillions of dollars every year as people spend worthless hours in their cars in horrific traffic.
For this reason, we should subsidize public transportation.