We should end water fluoridation.
Water fluoridation is an undemocratic tool used by municipal governments in a way that is not effective.
It is largely a waste of resources and does not represent the will of the people.
We can only truly change the water supply, we can only take such fundamental action when we are truly certain.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that all cities in the US which currently use fluoride should abandon their usage.
I have one overview before two arguments.
Recognize that water fluoridation is putting chemicals into another individual's body, it is affecting a water supply with no capacity to remove consent.
We would say when government takes action that does not give individuals options, it must create an incredibly high bar for those actions.
It must first be objectively beneficial for the individuals of the state.
Secondly, it must be understood wholly by both the state and the people of the state and thirdly must be in a an incredible boon to the people of the state even if it isn't an inherent value in understood completely if the benefits are small it is still not worth removing choice from individuals.
This brings me to my first argument that this is a waste of resources.
Water fluoridation is fairly expensive insofar as it requires increased control over reservoirs, it requires increased employment and chemicals at water treatment plants.
We think that this is inherently problematic as toothpaste solves most fluoridation needs for the average american.
If you use a fluoridated toothpaste you are fine.
Fluoride does incredibly little then to benefit your teeth.
Given what I said before and how inherently difficult it is to justify things like fluoride in water supply is, given that it is a waste of resources we should not do it.
But if we further look at how this money could be spent, water fluoridation becomes even less logical.
This money could be spent on school, health care, could be spent on making our country safer unfortunately we are wasting it on these sort of municipal governments who then spenders on water fluoridation.
Were we to end it we could transfer that money into school systems and guarantee that individuals have a better future through education.
My second argument is that water fluoridation is inherently undemocratic.
Incredibly few individuals voted for water fluoridation in the cities that they live in.
Two reasons why.
First we think a lot of the time water fluoridation happened before many voters came of age.
A lot of water fluoridation happened in the fifties and sixties where very few people who are currently alive and actively conscious about politics understood what was going on or even had the ability to vote.
But secondly we think a lot of areas didn't even put it to a vote that they simply voted at a city council meeting.
Representative democracy is important but taking such drastic action which is effectively changing our bodies and removing bodily autonomy requires the will of the people.
Unless the individuals within the state have justified these actions have worked to either vote one way or another we think that water fluoridation is inherently undemocratic by taking undemocratic action the state is violating the will of the people and ultimately decreasing individuals' faith in government.
By having water fluoridation all that we do is weaken the government's ability to have an effective political mandate and otherwise have a good discourse with the people of america or to facilitate this relationship in order to reconstitute this relationship it is essential that we undo oppressive policies such as water fluoridation.
For this reason, we should end water fluoridation.