I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should lower the age of consent.
In the status quo the age of consent is based upon the rule of law in the area in which it is being enforced.
Eighteen is a reasonable standard given that it is when most individuals finish high school, understand the limits and extent of their sexuality, and are generally able to engage in sex without being problematic or leading to further harms.
Lowering the age of consent does little more than put individuals who are uneducated regarding consent into sexual situations which they are far more likely to be pressured into.
This brings me to my first argument about understanding sex.
Most individuals who are fourteen, sixteen, before eighteen, have not taken the full extent of their health classes, do not know the reality of STD's, sex, birth control, and all the options available to them in this regard.
We believe that allowing them to have sex legally is far more likely to increase the total incidence of sex.
Why is this the case?
Individuals, particularly children, have a greater respect for the rule of law both because of the inherent reverence that they have for older individuals who pass these kinds of laws, but also because they have greater fears of things like prison and other punishment.
By lowering the age of consent we will increase the amount of individuals willing to have sex in the first place, will also signaling to children that sex should be had at a younger age than they are comfortable with.
This will lead to a increased pregnancies and increased STD's given that these children do not have the best understanding of birth control or the best understanding of STD prevention which is incredibly problematic.
Secondly, we think that these people are not ready to be a parent.
Although someone who's eighteen also isn't ready to be a parent, someone who's fourteen certainly is not ready.
An inherent and frequently frequent risk of sex being pregnancy means that we should not put children in a situation which it is possible to have a child due to the actions that they take.
By banning it, we will decrease the total incidents of pregnancy to a great extent and allow individuals to live a better quality of life into the long term.
My second argument is about restricted autonomy.
Although this policy seems to increase total autonomy, we think that it will actually decrease it.
Why?
By passing this kind of policy you signal to parents that they must now be a greater arbiter in terms of when their child is having sex.
Although this might seem like a good thing, we think that invasions into privacy and invasions into one's personal life are not actually effective in deterring child's behavior.
Instead, they're likely to restrict the times that their child can go out, the people that they can meet with, the contact they have with people of the opposite sex.
We think this is an incredibly problematic as learning that all individuals are equal, learning that all individuals are respectable occurs at least somewhat in terms of individuals having childhood friends of the opposite sex.
We think that individuals who engage with people from a variety of different backgrounds and of different genders are far more likely to be respectful, empowered individuals into the long term.
My third argument is about predatory practices because we believe that this will signal to predatory individuals that fourteen year old girls and fourteen year old boys are now potential sexual partners.
These are the people who are the most easily strong-armed, coerced, or otherwise pressured into sex.
This is incredibly problematic because now if someone who is thirty five years old wants to have sex with a fourteen-year-old girl there's no way in which we can meaningfully stop it as it is legal and impossible to determine the total amount of coercion which occurs between two individuals.
In the same way that it is fundamentally unacceptable to say that someone who's having legal sex is inherently coerced into it.
We would say that because individuals who are fourteen years old do not have the ability to consent to sex to older individuals, we simply should not pass this kind of policy.
In every single situation which a fourteen-year-old would be having sex with someone over the age of thirty, we believe that would be at least somewhat pressured either through society or direct action and as such, it must be banned.