National service in the united states should be mandatory.
National service builds character, capital, and generally bring societies together.
With that mind we would support the following model: that all individuals be required to serve for one year in the national service.
There will be a variety of options including the military or community engagement efforts, which will allow individuals to pick and choose what they would like to do in their year of national service.
There will also be deferrals for individuals with medical conditions or individuals with a time sensitive issue.
We believe that religious exemptions and other exemptions will be unnecessary, because individuals who are pacifists or who -wise have ethical obligations against violence can simply volunteer in a urban beautification project or to clean up national forests, and will still be serving their country.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first on the development of capital, second on the engagement of individuals and third on oversight in civil institutions.
So on development.
We believe that there are two forms of capital that we develop with this kind of policy: first is human capital.
Many individuals in the status quo do not have access to education or other forms of capital development.
May require a year or two on the job to truly become the most effective employees that they can be and to learn the basics of things like finance and the way the world actually works.
This is incredibly problematic.
We believe that the a system of national service will allow them to develop this kind of capital.
It will require them to be organized, healthy and generally work with the individuals that they have been assigned to.
By doing this we will guarantee that all individuals, rich and poor, have a similar access to this form of education.
Individuals will all be forced to serve this single year of national service, which will allow them to either propel themselves into college with better organizational skills or prevail themselves into a job.
They won't have to take a minimum wage job given that they will have a better understanding of our system and will have unique skills that they can apply to other forms of capital and labor.
Secondly, we think that it will develop land capital very effectively as well.
If individuals clean up parks, clean up streets, clean up areas overall, they will actually improve the profitability and efficiency of these areas as well.
If individuals understand they live in a cleaner area, if there's less crime, less danger, they'll be feel more safe and generally be willing to take more bold actions.
And we don't mean bold as in like running across the street without paying attention, but generally be more comfortable staying out late, investing in their community and to live a higher quality of life.
By doing this we'll improve the lot of all individuals in the national service and the individuals who live near these areas being developed.
My second argument is about community engagement.
We believe that national service will increase the amount of love for one's country that these individuals have.
They'll feel comfortable articulating this, they'll also understand the issues that currently exist in their country.
If you work in a national park for year you start to understand the issues with the lack of funding and the issues regarding wildlife conservation.
This'll allow them to have better political efficacy and pass considerably better policies.
Furthermore just having comradery with your fellow men, learning more about other citizens of your state will make you feel a greater obligation to them, which will further improve your community engagement.
My third argument is about oversight.
This is particularly important in the military.
And the status quo many individuals in the military come from poor families.
They do not have large amounts of political efficacy both because they do not have capital but also because they don't have the connections that are necessary to actually engage with these things.
We believe that if you put more higher education and higher wealth individuals into the national service, if they feel truly oppressed by the system or feel that the system is generally problematic, they will fight for better conditions.
They'll fight for better pay.
They'll fight for more autonomy in the military, increasing the lot of all poor individuals who feel like they have no choice but to go into the military.
For this reason, we should have national service in the US.