I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should introduce school vouchers.
At best school vouchers are a way in which the federal government can take away the rights of states and the part of education to control curriculum and at worst they are a mechanism which threatens the education of every poor school child throughout the united states.
Because we think this is a fundamentally incorrect incorrect policy supported primarily by political interest we would say that we should introduce no school vouchers.
Two overviews followed by three arguments.
The first overview is that education is not based on the utility of parents or the choice of parents.
My opponent falls to the classic is ought fallacy when they say that parents have the right to determines one's background to determine one's conception of the world.
However at the point where we think that this is against the child's own utility we would say that we should take that away.
The reason that we provide parents increased rights over the child is because we believe they're the best actor to determine what is best for the child.
However when there are teachers and school administrators who whose entire career is dedicated to understanding how education works and how best to serve children we would say that this is a case where parents actually shouldn't have the most discretion.
The second overview is that public schools are doing their best.
My opponent seems to think that public schools just need the right incentive to start working better.
However the honest truth is that public schools are unable to keep up with private schools because of less resources and because because of artificial scarcities introduced by wealthier individuals.
At the point where all you do is whole funding from already struggling schools you would say that school vouchers are fundamentally unjust.
Three arguments.
First that parents have imperfect information.
You say that parents really can't evaluate teachers well.
A lot of the time when parents are the most angry it's because a teacher gave the child a bad grade.
That's when you see parents stomp into the room and getting angry with teachers demanding that they lose their job as school administrators.
At the point where you give increased power to teachers over school administrators with the ability to threaten to take that money somewhere else we would say that first you threaten teacher's jobs administrator's jobs.
Second you threaten the educational environment overall.
But third we would say that this would simply lead to parents sending their kids to schools where they think they can just get the best grades where great inflation is more prevalent.
Secondly though we would say that parents have bad incentives.
At the point where it certain parents might take offense to evolution or sex education being taught to their child we think other problematic norms will be enforced due to the school voucher system.
We think that a lot of time niche interests will be served in an incredibly problematic way.
A second argument though is that there will be artificial scarcity in rich districts.
My opponent likes to think that what will happen is that poor students will simply exercise their voucher to go to wealthier districts where there will be obvious restrictions on the power of four students.
First we think that schools that are already too full probably won't have to take more students.
At that point rich parents can simply introduce scarcity into these schools mandate that there's only fifteen students per class and push already poor people in that district into other worse school districts.
Or even more likely they're likely to transfer to private schools.
We think that rich students see poor students join in their classes rather than simply be tolerant they're more likely to simply go to another school and put their money there.
Now the third argument is that this makes poor districts worse.
We think that if your local school's a bad school rather than taking away all of their funding forcing the people who cannot commute at all to still go to a terrible school you simply work to make that school better.
If all the middle income students the lower middle income students and the poor kids whose parents don't have to drive far far away for work moved to a better district that leaves the very poorest people in the worst districts possible.
We think is this is the most egregious rights violation and cannot be accepted.
For this reason we strongly oppose school vouchers.
Thank you