We should raise the corporate tax.
Unfortunately corporations have profound power in passing legislation.
The ability to use special interest groups to lobby politicians have guaranteed a favorable position in all forms of policy.
This is most easily seen in tax policy, where corporations are taxed far less than they should be in the status quo.
As such, we see profound wasteful spending and a substantial decrease in government revenue which ultimately harms the whole of society.
With that mind, we support the following model: that the united states substantially raises corporate tax.
This includes all corporations, not just large ones or small ones, we believe that all corporations have a greater obligation to their community which can be fulfilled through taxation.
With that in mind we have three arguments: first off on the obligation of corporations.
No one gains their income, no one creates a company in a vacuum.
It depends on a myriad of circumstances.
First it depends on your on how you are raised, the way you were educated to learn how to create a company.
This involves your parents, the individuals who are socialized with who almost exclusively were educated through public education and garnered a massive amounts of public benefits.
Furthermore, a massive amount of all individuals' upbringing is education which typically is provided by the state as well.
The corporation is further developed into adolescence and adulthood, where individuals largely go to universities subsidized by the public and get are guaranteed certain benefits through things like subsidies, which are created through community development.
As such we think that all corporations have an obligation to the community.
Both the owners and all the workers, who would necessarily benefit from this particular form of engagement, must be engaged with in order to improve the well being of all people.
We believe that taxation will guarantee that the community gets the benefits which they deserve.
Taxation will allow the government to increase social programs, which I will address and my second argument.
My second argument is about government revenue.
In the status quo the GDP of the united states is trillions of dollars.
Massive amounts of that profit is given to corporations, which can necessarily be transferred back to the people.
We believe that the ends justify the means in this particular case.
Even if you were to believe that taxation is unjust, if the billions of dollars which the united states could garner through an increased corporate tax would necessarily improve people's quality of life it is still worth it.
W now how can we use this money effectively?
First we think that they can go to things like welfare and it can go to improving the lot of all people.
We can develop social and human capital as we invest in education, we can ensure that people don't starve as we put it into education excuse me into welfare money.
We can guarantee that individuals do not fall into systems of drug abuse and domestic abuse as we put into law enforcement and rehabilitation.
We don't believe that this money will go to things like the military industrial complex, given that in the status quo the military is currently at essentially a maximum budget.
They have refused increased amounts of money in the short term before, and there's no reason to suspect that an increased corporate tax would increase the military budget.
Now my third and final argument is about the political effects of a corporate tax.
We believe that corporations have this sort of undue influence because of their profound income.
This is both because corporations make so much money but also because other actors don't have that much money.
If we were to improve the lot of all people and improve their pay in a serious way we believe that the political effects would be massive.
Politicians would be less beholden to corporations and more beholden to the people.
This would guarantee more socially conscious legislation, which would also protect individuals from their employers, and make it so profit is not is ultimately not the goal of government, it will only be the goal of corporations.
As such we should end excuse me we should raise the corporate tax.