We should end the use of solitary confinement.
Solitary confinement is a truly abusive way of dealing with prisoners.
It is a form of psychological torture.
It depends on individuals' feelings of loneliness and depression taking hold of them when they have no one else to talk to our express their feelings with.
To that end it is unacceptable in any situation.
We believe that in the united states solitary confinement should be outright banned.
In our model the only exceptions we will make is if someone's with them.
That is to say a guard must be with someone at all times if they are dealing with solitary confinement.
The only situations where we think that will truly be necessary is if someone is essentially under threat of harm due to other inmates, in which case a guard should be with them at all time and talk with them to prevent psychological harm, or if there is a medical issue which requires quarantining, in which case we can also have a guard in quarantine gear ensuring that the inmate is not suffering due to their confinement.
Three reasons why we should prevent solitary confinement from being used: first, it is unconstitutional.
The constitution protects us from unjust, unnecessary and just simply unusual forms of punishment.
We think that solitary confinement is all three.
It is, once again, a way to torture individuals.
It depends on them feeling alone, feeling harmed, feeling like they have no one to turn to.
The only thing that we give them in solitary confinement is a metal box, usually not even a bed to sleep on, even though we keep people there for days on end.
As such, we see people who return from solitary confinement who are never the same again.
Regardless of the individual harms as results of solitary confinement which I'll discuss later, we think that the constitution is a fundamental document.
When we violate it we essentially violate the fundamental laws of our country.
Each of our foundational principles have allowed us to create the nation that we have today.
It is the only lens in which we can truly understand american law.
As such, when the government violates the constitution they're violating each of our understandings in our ability to even conceptualize the laws in the first place.
If individuals cannot -dict the role of government and how government will punish particular actions, they can not understand how to engage with laws in the first place.
They lose faith in government and ultimately creates it creates an unjust and unhappy society.
A second argument is that this is fundamentally inhumane.
As I've discussed throughout this speech solitary confinement is truly awful.
Even if there is no explicit policy banning solitary confinement we think that allowing it to continue ultimately degrades the dignity of all of of humanity and creates a moral apprehension on the guards, which could ultimately lead to depression, it can lead to guilt, and will ultimately expand the cruel power dynamic we see between guards and prisoners which allow them to take other forms of abuses against them.
My third and final argument is that solitary confinement is just ineffective.
When we put someone alone for days on end, they're angry.
They're alone.
They think of all the things they can do to harm the people around them and the people who put them there in the first place.
There's no rehabilitation effect as a result of solitary confinement.
At best individuals simply find ways to hide their crimes better.
At worst we think that they are likely to lash out against the people who put them there and refuse to be taken now by guards.
This is incredibly dangerous because if someone needs to be apprehended by guards but is now truly afraid to be stopped by guards in the first place, you're likely to plot knives or other weapons to kill anyone who tries to take them or stop them.
For this reason we should end the use of solitary confinement.