I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should limit the right to asylum.
Sovereignty is an artifact.
It was a tool with which we were able to establish international organizations.
By providing each state some amount of autonomy and personifying them with particular rights such as sovereignty, we were able to give them voting power in international organizations.
However, when defining how certain individuals have obligations to the state, sovereignty fundamentally fails.
Suggesting that individuals ought to be culpable for their own punishment, ought to be blamed simply because of the place they were born and as such, subject that or to that judicial system is fundamentally laughable and cannot be supported in any regard as such, we would say that government should not limit the right to asylum in any way.
I have two arguments.
First off, on human rights and secondly, on government incentives but first some extraneous rebuttal.
My opponent's case was primarily rested upon the idea that this undermine sovereignty and law.
As I already discussed, sovereignty is an artifact.
It does not stem from any creator, does not stem from the will of the people.
It only depends on certain governments who established it in attempt to hold on to power without justice, without the consent of their people.
Furthermore, we would say that asylum only occurs when the government has been fundamentally abusive.
Government must draw power from the consent of the people.
However, when it has decided to adopt sweeping legislation which oppresses particular subsections of the population, it has failed to to get that consent and as such, rendered itself illegitimate.
As such, undermining an illegitimate system of law is not only acceptable, but is an obligation of international organizations and the large states around the world.
My first argument is about human rights.
We would say that individuals have a right to first determine their state and as such, we ought to assist in mobility wherever possible but additionally have the ability to articulate themselves politically and economically.
Asylum only occurs and is only granted to individuals who have faced political oppression or who have otherwise been unable to express themselves economically because of violence which is uncontested by government.
The failure of the international community to ensure that all individuals have their human rights respected, represents a true moral failing.
As long as large states just sit by and allow oppressive states to use their powers unjustly, we would say that human rights are being fundamentally violated.
Now no geopolitical violation, no front affront to the dignity of a particular nation can ever way against the profound harms which are actualized upon individuals who cannot express themselves politically and are faced with violence on a day to day basis.
Now my second argument is about government incentives because we would say that first, that asylum is incredibly popular and if you buy my opponent's argumentation that the good is determined idiosyncratically based on the will of the people, you must also say that asylum is just as it is always popular by those individuals within the state which is granting asylum.
This is different from just long term refugees as asylum depends on profound political persecution targeting a particular ethnic or religious group.
Additionally, we think that asylum seekers largely bring economic good as those oppressed groups are regularly regularly have some skill and can otherwise contribute to the economy as such, we should not limit the right to asylum.