We should cancel the patriot act.
The patriot act represents one of the worst policies ever adopted by the modern united states government and as such must be removed.
It was passed in a fervor of confusion and through massive coercion through a political body which demanded that it was infallible right after nine eleven.
As such, we would support the following model: that the patriot act be removed and that individuals who can prove that they were unjustly harmed as a result of it become compensated massively for these harms from the government.
With that, I have three arguments.
First that the patriot act is unconstitutional.
We think the patriot act violates two key amendments to the united states constitution.
First is the fourth amendment.
The fourth amendment protects individuals from unreasonable search and seizure.
It guarantees that we have some privacy rights and has been essential for passing precedent on things like abortion rights but also simply in protecting our ability to have free speech which is unregulated by governments.
With that in mind, we think the patriot act has massively stifled speech and massively destroyed our privacy as it expanded the police state and allowed for further surveillance apparatuses to be placed on the average individual.
Organizations like the NSA were although they were not created through the patriot act have their power massively expanded and as such our communications have been monitored ad nauseum since its passage.
We think this is fundamentally unjust and also violates the united states government's obligation to its citizens as enumerated in the constitution.
The second amendment it violates is the fourteenth amendment which guarantees equal protection under the law.
The patriot act has effectively made being a muslim in the united states considerably more difficult.
The vast majority of harms which have been a result of the patriot act have been actualized upon minority groups and as such we think that it has had inequal application based on race and based off ethnicity.
We think this violates the core of the fourteenth amendment which demands equal protection under the law.
The supreme court has routinely found that particular bills and particular laws are unjustified eventhough they do not have explicit racism but because they have an implicit racism which was actualized upon the execution of the bill.
With this in mind we think that the constitution is incredibly important.
The only way in which government can effectively maintain its legitimacy is if it maintains its obligations to its people.
We would say that the only way that rights exist is through a contract because there's no power up above our power inside of us which inherently give us rights it is simply how we agree or make agreements with the government.
If the government fails in this regard, it has truly betrayed our trust, stolen our resources, and effectively made our lives worse.
My second argument is about societal effects.
We think the patriot act has massively created a stigma against islam in the united states.
Because the execution of the policy has largely been against these individuals, the average person has also reflected the opinions expressed by our government.
This is problematic because we think we should generally decrease hate particularly as a goal of government policy.
My third arguments about the political effect of the patriot act, because it is massively decreased our security, as is put in place expansions of the TSA and clandestine operations which ultimately don't actually increase our security but simply just make people feel safer.
As such we've become complacent in a system which still allows for terrorist attacks.
Finally, the worst political effect has been the ability of of using national defense as a defense in court.
Huge amounts of evidence, particularly about corporations, have not been entered into the public domain because they simply claim that it is for national defense and many judges have agreed with them because of the fervor around the patriot act.
Removing it would empower individuals and guarantee they find justice in courts of law.
As such, we should cancel the patriot act.