We should abolish term limits.
Term limits are an ageist policy which largely give us ineffective politicians.
We think that term limits were put in place to prevent abusive politicians from continuing their power ad nauseam.
However, were a despotic government to come to power, it is unclear why they would not abolish term limits in the first place.
As such, the continuation of term limits does little more than prevent effective politicians from continuing an effective place of power.
I will discuss why that there is no meaningful harm to removing term limits later in my speech but for now, a brief model: we would say that in the united states, term limits should be outright removed, that no term limits should be enforced on any particular position, but we would guarantee that each of those positions must be voted into office.
That is to say, if a previous position allowed you to be appointed once or twice, we would require that individuals be voted into office once the previous term limit amount was passed.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first off, on experience.
Individuals become more effective at a job the longer that they work at it.
Individuals who've worked for twenty years are considerably faster than people who are brand new, and even much faster than people who have worked there for just ten years.
The same is true with politics.
Understanding the the machinations of politics, understanding where to put your weight and where to spend your resources, is an incredibly important tool which allows individuals to be considerably more effective.
Whenever we force someone out due to term limits, we two things happen: first, we see that new politicians must be put into office and they must essentially walk on egg shells for their first term because they could very well be removed, because they are seen as inexperienced.
But secondly, we push someone with experience out of their position, then require them to run for a new position.
Individuals rise to the level of their incompetence under this system.
Even if they're incredibly comfortable in a position with term limits, they will inevitably have to run for larger and larger positions as they're pushed out of positions due to term limits overall.
As such, we think that this creates more competition for jobs that do not require competition and pushes effective people out of roles that they should continue to be in.
My second argument is about meaningful choice.
We think that the individuals who are voting have the best understanding of what is good and who to continue voting into power.
This brings me back to the idea of despotic governments.
The reason that we can remove term limits in the united states is if a truly despotic power comes to power, continues to pass policies that are problematic, they will remove term limits as the first thing they do.
This means that if we do not have term limits, excuse me, if we do have term limits, individuals will continue to be pushed out of office because of this ineffective policy until a despotic government comes to power, and then they'll rule forever.
As such, we don't think there's a meaningful harm to removing term limits as if a despotic government came to power in the first place, they would already remove it.
As such, abolishing term limits simply increases the total amount of choice that individuals have by allowing them to better understand politicians, to better vote for the politicians that have continued to respect their choices in the long term.
This brings me to my third argument regarding connections.
We think that politics is largely a game of who you know.
It is about meeting people.
It's about trusting individuals effectively.
When you do not have trust, politics is incredibly difficult.
If you do not trust another senator to vote with your policy after they give you their word, you are far more likely to hedge your bets, essentially water down policy, effectively ruining a lot of different effective political outcomes.
Furthermore, if you know that you're about to lose a particular seat due to a term limit, you are far more likely to lie or violate individuals' trust.
As such, we think that politics becomes far more bureaucratic and far less effective due to individuals who cannot trust each other, because they do not have a long-term incentive to maintain their truthfulness.
As such, we should abolish term limits.