We should increase international volunteering.
International volunteering has led to long term stability, a massive decrease in world mortality, it has largely improved the nations that it both receive volunteers and send volunteers.
International volunteering is the greatest personification of humanitarian good, of charitable good, and the potential for humans to help one another out.
Not only are there inherent benefits to sending individuals abroad to help out the poorest individuals around the world, there's also an obligation to undo the harms of western intervention in states that have languished in poverty for far too long.
With this in mind we have two arguments: first that there is an obligation to help individuals on the international level and second that this facilitates understanding.
But first a brief model.
For this debate we would say that western states should fund aid projects and organizations to increase their projects abroad and should push for volunteering as a strong option after college doing things like loan forgiveness programs for individuals who volunteer abroad.
Two arguments, so we would say that there's an obligation to help individuals abroad for a few reasons.
First is colonialism.
Many western states were empowered as a result of colonialism.
The spice trade in india, the resource extraction throughout the world empowered european states to actually become the strongest in the world.
They were able to get the highest quality of life, they were able to dominate a variety of other states militarily due to other colonies which facilitated each other's oppression indirectly.
Because of the system of oppression, because of the inherent inhumanity of this entire system, there is an obligation to undo these harms.
We benefited as a result of the harms to other individuals and because of this we must undo this harm through things like international volunteering.
We've also caused incredible harms through global capitalist efforts.
We've purposely decreased wages in developing states in order to get cheaper shoes and shirts and just textiles overall.
We've used states that have high resources to extract the resources as quickly as possible putting as little money into the pockets of individuals who need it in order to get the best price possible.
By having international volunteers abroad to save lives, to administer medicine, to build infrastructure we will undo the harm that we did.
We will begin to create reparations for the individuals who have been oppressed due to western action.
My second argument is how this facilitates understanding.
We would say that individuals cannot understand international realities without experience.
When individuals try to imagine what it's like growing up in a state with an incredibly low human development index after growing up in a western state, they simply cannot do it.
True hunger is something that many individuals in western states have never known.
Yes individuals have gone for a day without food but incredibly few people have gone without food for over a day and not understood where their next meal is coming from.
This is a reality which individuals must face if not themselves but they must at least observe other individuals going through it.
This will allow them to have better empathy and understanding for the how the world works.
We think there are two general results.
First a change in the political effects in the western states.
This can be things like more donations, this can be programs that facilitate infrastructure in developing states, this can simply be a cycle in which individuals go abroad come back and push for more international volunteering and as a result.
Secondly we think this will increase donations.
If someone goes and volunteers abroad and then spends the rest of their life getting a lot of money if they invest ten percent in developing states they will still be doing an incredible amount of good.
For this reason, we should increase international volunteering.