We should adopt blasphemy laws.
Blasphemy laws are regularly adopted in theocratic states to protect the religion which the state holds and defends.
This makes perfect sense but in our modern more globalized world, blasphemy laws make considerably more sense in western states as well.
The proliferation of hate speech, fake news and violence overall ultimately means that the marketplace of ideas is failing.
Many founding fathers predicted that the marketplace of ideas would mean that free speech would always be beneficial, that individuals who lie or hate would be pushed out simply due to the force of other people's ideas rather than due to intervention on behalf of government.
We see this failing time and time again.
Instead of government being able to interject with its own ideals without censoring people, we see hateful speech pushing hateful politicians into office.
As such, we think that a reevaluation of free speech must occur and the best way we can do this or at least the best way we can start doing this is by adopting blasphemy laws.
With that in mind, I propose the following model: that slurs against a particular religion or god be removed.
If I were to say " god is a cockroach " or " the christian god is a cockroach " that would be a slur against a god.
Of I were to say " allah is evil " that would be bad as well.
We would not remove academic discussions.
If I wanted to say " allah is evil because it allows for violence in the in the world " or " allows evil in the world " that would not be against blasphemy laws but any really unreasonable attack against a religion unreasonable being without any educational merit, will be banned by the state.
With that mind, I have three arguments.
First, about the violence of language.
We think that violence is anything that causes someone -credible harm.
This can be physical harm.
This can be emotional harm.
We don't there's a meaningful distinction in many cases.
If somebody pushes me over even if I don't get hurt, that's a physical violence that constitutes assault.
If someone consistently belittles me and my religion that should be considered a form of harassment under blasphemy laws.
We think that this sort of violence is unacceptable and must be acted upon by the state.
The united states federal government has an obligation to protect its citizen's safety and security and it cannot do so if it allows this sort of violence to continue.
My second argument is about backlash.
We think that adopting blasphemy laws is essential because in many cases policies that allow refugees into the country, policies which allow people to come into the state at all, ultimately are met with hateful rhetoric.
If individuals had to articulate their distaste for refugees or immigrants without slurs and violence particularly against their religion, we think that individuals could have a much more meaningful discussion.
Yes, refugees are not always the best thing in the world, but by taking away vitriol from the discussion we can learn more from both sides and ultimately I suspect that in many cases states would start to accept more immigrants as a result of this kind of policy in which hateful politicians and hateful rhetoric are far less likely to take power.
My third and final arguments is about cultural understanding.
In areas like the united states which have a considerable amount of different cultures in a small space it is essential that we understand our neighbor.
By getting rid of these sort of slurs, by taking it out of the common parlance, we think that individuals will be far more likely to engage with one another on an equal level, on a happy level, which ultimately will make it so they're more comfortable with those around them.
This reduces total community violence.
This makes it so community organizing is more likely and will improve the quality of life for all americans.
For this reason, we should adopt blasphemy laws.