I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon feminism.
Now, I respect the arguments that tim gives and the model that he provides, I provided a similar one myself, but I think it is fundamentally incorrect when it is put up to scrutiny, when we truly interrogate the claims that he makes, they simply do not stand.
I'm gonna do some brief rebuttal before having two arguments of my own.
His primary argument is that feminism has lost its roots, it's lost its path and at times fringe groups have used it to problematic ends, essentially that the publicity surrounding feminism has been negative due to fringe and sometimes groups.
Now, why is this incorrect?
First, we think that the individuals who are engaging with feminism most often are intelligent enough to realize that the fringe groups do not paint the whole movement.
Yes, incredibly conservative extremists will say that the fringe group represents feminism no matter what.
These are not the individuals that feminism tries to win.
It needs to use feminism to get its name out there, as I'll discuss later, but additionally it needs to be a rallying call for these individuals.
We think that when you abandon feminism, a few things happen.
First, we think that it's going to be far less likely to have effective organization, we think that it's incredibly important that individuals can use feminism as a way to identify potential allies.
But secondly, it's unclear why the opponents of equality, who are the opponents of current feminism, will actually change their narrative once you abandon the term feminism.
If a new feminist as I'll call throughout the speech goes on to a talk show and soomeone asks them " do you still identify with these fringe feminists? "
And they'll say " no, we're not a feminist anymore ", and they'll say " oh, do not believe in equality ", and when they do, they'll simply be lumped into the same group.
Or the alternative is if they say they're not a feminist anymore, they'll be seen as abandoning their own movement, being seen as weak and generally just empowering the extremist, which my opponent tries to say are the most problematic people in our society.
With that I have two arguments.
First on the value of history, and second on the dangers of reconstruction.
So, history has a few values that are incredibly important.
First off is publicity.
We think that the ability to refer to something by a name, and immediately identify its purpose and cause in the history of it is very valuable for getting a name out there.
When someone can say " these are the people who brought us suffrage, these are the people who changed gender norms such that it is not uncommon for me to be at a university ", individuals are very appreciative of that.
They are likely to join feminism because of the inherent publicity that comes with the names, and because of the past achievements that are impossible to say were incorrect.
Secondly, we think clarity is incredibly important.
When each group within feminism has the same goal that is to get equality between the genders, some, if you believe my opponent's narrative, may think that we we that they don't want equality but rather women to rule.
But this is unlikely and is really just a straw man painted by particular individuals in extremist movements.
Having a clear goal as they do in the status quo is incredibly helpful for organization and solidarity.
When two groups are both feminist but have different members and different causes in general, they can work together because of this common name, this leads both groups to be more powerful.
This leads into my second argument about the dangers of reconstruction.
In the status quo the most marginalized individuals are those who use feminism to the best degree, who can use the name in history to organize their goals and fight for the same rights that majority women have gained in the past for minority women.
But when you destroy a movement and cause it to be reformed, the only people who will have the political efficacy to coalesce around a particular goal will be the already powerful, they people who already have connections and wealth.
We believe this will primarily be white women who are likely to move the movement away from what it needs to do the most, helping themselves rather than the most oppressed.
For this reason, we should not abandon feminism.