I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban herbal medicine.
The only way in which consumers can articulate their needs in the market economy is by spending money freely.
When government steps in unjustly, it restricts the rights of consumers and makes them less free, less happy, and generally less healthy.
I've two overviews for two arguments.
My first overview is with the model of this motion.
If drew is suggesting that we should stop selling herbal medicine at pharmacies, I presume he is arguing that you shouldn't be able to buy it anywhere in a pharmacy, even without the regulation, even just over the counter.
It's very clear that in the status quo, you do not get a prescription for herbal medicine, so we don't think a lot of the harmful effects and the harmful attributions to herbal medicine are actually occurring.
Secondly, I want to discuss regulation.
We can regulate herbal medicine in the status quo.
We already have requirements that they label the active ingredients, the amount of active ingredient, and we even put disclaimers on this medicine which says there's not scientifically proven evidence that it is effective.
We think that we can have regulation, while still selling it in pharmacies, to ensure that the consumer is actually educated.
Two arguments: first, on government overstep.
When government oversteps its bounds, it restricts the rights of the people.
We think that this is inherently bad, but we would say that there are also material harms as well.
As individuals feel mistrust with their government, they're less likely to engage civically, they're less likely to feel comfortable working for a stronger government to regulate actually harmful things.
Additionally, investors are afraid to invest in markets which they're afraid could otherwise be shut down, making it so the economy is also less efficient.
Now why is this government overstep?
For paternalism to be justified, it is it is very clear that it is paternalism.
It must fit three criteria.
First, the actor cannot conceptualize the harms of their own action.
Because we have regulation and because studies are commonly available about herbal medicine, actors have free reign over the harms of their action.
We would say that it would be similarly unjust to ban fortune tellers or horoscopes.
Even though they have no scientific basis, people believe in them and as such, they ought be able to freely associate with those actors or with those particular objects.
Secondly, if the actor can't control their own action.
We think it's very clear that you can choose where your money goes, you're not being coerced into buying herbal medicine, so actors can freely control what they're doing.
Finally, if there are third-party harms.
Taking herbal medicine has no third-party harms.
Doctors actively suggest that you take herbal medicine alongside real medicine and very few individuals, who would take western medicine, are actually actually removing western medicine with herbal medicine.
As such, there are no third-party harms or even single-actor harms which would justify this kind of paternalism.
It will fundamentally decrease the trust between the people and the government and be inherently morally corrupt.
Secondly, I want to discuss how this will actually hurt patients.
Now there is no objective truth in science.
Many claims throughout history, like certain claims by scientists have been proven wrong over time.
We think that particular herbal medicine can be effective for treating certain harms.
We think things like chamomile, dandelion, are actually effective in treating anxiety, even if they're not commonly prescribed.
As such, we think banning herbal medicine and saying it has no value at all is fundamentally unjust and pseudoscience.
Secondly, we think that there is inherently value to placebos.
If you take everything drew says at face value, say it has no value for medical purposes, if people believe in herbal medicine, it will make them better.
Doctors commonly suggest that people take herbal medicine alongside the normal medicine, because they will believe in herbal medicine and it will help them get better.
As such, we think it will always have value, and we ought not ban herbal medicine.