We should introduce goal-line technology.
Goal-line technology is technology which allows us to very accurately see when a ball has gone over a line.
Although this has very few applications in sports, it is incredibly valuable as it replaces the subjectivity of a ref and the angles at a ref suffers from and uses the laser-like precision of lasers and computers.
It will largely increase the fairness of the game, save time on referee calls, and reduce total intervention.
We believe each of these will contribute massively to a more enjoyable experience for players, for viewers, and for referees.
My first argument is about fairness.
We believe that the game is more valuable when it is more fair.
When two individuals compete, it is a competition of their skill and natural ability.
If two individuals are inherently mismatched for instance someone who's eight feet tall and versus someone who's two feet tall in basketball we think that that is not the kind of fairness that we truly care about.
If someone has to play with lead shoes the entire time and someone doesn't that the mechanical unfairness the unfairness which no one consented to and no one understands is the kind that makes people angry.
Particularly when that unfairness is truly random, individuals are very very unhappy.
Goal-line technology increases fairness as it has no bias whatsoever.
Individuals may feel that someone has been called too often are called too little or maybe just staring off into the distance when a bad play is made or when a bad call is made.
This is inherently problematic as it will lead to unfair situations where a singular team or individual is targeted more or less by a ref due to no one's actions but these inherent and subconscious biases of the ref.
By improving fairness we improve the quality of the game for all individuals.
My second argument is that it will save huge amounts of time.
When refs have to go through replays eight nine ten times simply to try to find the truth it wastes everyone's time.
It is very problematic when individuals cannot play the game when there is ad after ad after ad simply because referees want to review videos that they think they can find some additional information from.
Goal-line technology reduces this time wasting activity given that it can tell you without a doubt whether the ball passed a line or did not.
My third argument is that it reduces referee intervention.
We think that referees can decide incredibly important games or even less important games but everytime they do it reduces the value of that game.
This is incredibly problematic when it occurs in a championship game, whether it's the playoffs in basketball, football, soccer.
If the referee is deciding the game rather than the players, everyone is angry.
The team that wins is accused of winning because of the referees, the team that loses is accused of losing because the referees and as such the teams get angrier and angrier and angrier.
By reducing total intervention and by putting the entire onus on technology which cannot be biased in any way, we believe that individuals are less prone to these kinds of insults and these kinds of complaints and as such there will be less anger between teams and more camaraderie which will also improve everyone's enjoyment of the game.
For this reason, we should introduce goal-line technology.