We should increase immigration to the united states.
In the status quo, we have a considerably less immigration then we should.
The current system is one in which we provide incredibly few visas provide very few permits to actually work in the united states and most people simply wait on a lottery system which will almost never select them.
This is fundamentally unacceptable and as such, we would support the following model.
That considerably more individuals should be allowed the united states.
That in all situations where someone would be allowed into the united states, we allow triple that number of individuals in.
We triple the number of people who get through in the lottery system.
We triple the number of HOne_b visas.
Basically, any way that you can get into the united states will be three times as easy to get in through that same system.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First, on the social effects of increased immigration.
Second, on the economic effects of increased immigration and third, on how this is an inherent moral good that we have an obligation to provide.
So first on the social effects.
We believe that individuals are less likely to be hateful, less likely to vote in favor of racist and problematic politicians, if we have increased immigration.
Why is this the case?
It is incredibly easy to hate the archetypal terrorist, hate the archetypal individual who's coming to steal your job, but when you meet someone from a country which you've formally seen as hostile, that is when you actually learn that they are decent human beings who deserve all kinds of respect.
This is the idea of contact theory.
When I engage with someone and their culture on a day-to-day basis, I am far less likely to hate them and far more likely to vote in favor of policies which actually help them.
Contact theory can come in a number of ways.
Increased immigration will put more individuals of diverse cultures in places of work, will also increase the number of buildings dedicated to things like worship, and increase the total number of food options available from a variety of cultures.
Once individuals begin to appreciate one another and respect one another as distinct but meaningful cultures that is when we see a massive decrease in hate.
We would also say that there will likely be better relations between states as immigration increases.
Why is this the case?
Hateful politicians, warmongers, who say that for instance in the united states someone said that they hate mexico, hated canada, hate any country where we get a number of immigrants in the status quo because of some perceived slight.
These individuals are far less likely to win office as such, we'll have respectful and happy politicians who are actually likely to pass good social policies for our state and for our neighbors.
This means that we'll have better relations, better trade, and generally happier society's overall.
My second argument is about the economic effect of increased immigration.
Recognize that in the status quo much of illegal immigration are individuals who tried their chance at the lottery system or tried to get into US through a legal way but were refused.
By tripling the number of people that we allow into the US per year these individuals will feel greater hope going through with the legal system and as such, will be less likely to illegally immigrate.
This means that we will save huge amounts of money on deportations and border security which is a massive sinkhole in the status quo.
Second though we think that there's a good economic effect as we increase the total amount of high skilled labor.
Most US immigration visas are offered because individuals have something to offer to the US.
This is why we offer HOne_b visas.
By increasing the total amount of skilled labor you increase the total amount of innovation, entrepreneurship, and the total amount of jobs overall.
But also we can increase the amount of low skilled labor as well.
There are many jobs in the US that individuals refused to fill simply because they are american and they believe they deserve a higher wage.
By increasing immigration these jobs will be filled and our economy will run considerably more efficiently.
My third argument is about moral good.
These individuals suffer from the lottery of birth.
That means they were born in a state that is less wealthy and have generally not caused US any harm.
They deserve to come in simply because the US has enticed them and caused harm in their state in the first place which is has pushed them out.
By increasing immigration we do a moral good at which we have an obligation to fulfill.
For this reason, we should increase immigration to the united states.