We should limit genetic testing.
Genetic testing can be an incredible tool but in the status quo, we see that it is massively abused by corporations and by police.
Because we think that genetic testing is one of the easiest ways for us to slip into a dystopian authoritarian state, we would propose the following model: that genetic testing be restricted where it can be used, when it can be used, how it can be accessed, and who owns it.
We will require that individuals have informed consent before they get genetic testing.
We will require that genetic testing not be stored and not be shared in any capacity with insurance agencies or other corporations, and we will require individuals to own their own genetic information.
They can sell it to other individuals if they wanted, however, they're under no obligation to do so.
My first argument is that privacy is a fundamental right.
Without the ability to access privacy, individuals cannot be political.
Individuals can't engage in what they want to do if they do not have privacy.
Many individual's actions are embarrassing.
I liked to sing in the shower.
I like to try to sing falsetto.
However, if everyone knew I was doing it, I would not be able to do this.
I would not be able to self-actualize.
To the same extent, we think that privacy is essential for individuals to protect the somewhat taboo or somewhat embarrassing parts of their life.
When it comes to our own biology, our own genetic makeup, we think that this privacy becomes even more important.
If individuals can know before I do that I have increased risk of huntington's or increased likelihood of schizophrenia, they can hold it above my head.
They can violate my privacy and ultimately harm my long-term mental stability by causing me undue stress.
We think that this is a true violation and, as such, genetic testing should be less common and have considerable restrictions upon it.
My second argument is about corporate interests.
We think that genetic testing largely serves the most powerful in our society.
Why is this the case?
In the status quo, we see insurance companies trying to accumulate genetic information as much as possible.
This allows insurance companies to abuse this sort of genetic testing and deny claims of individuals simply because they may have been somewhat predisposed to a particular condition.
If I get tetanus and I get a genetic test, and my insurance company finds out I also have an increased risk of some other disease, they can deny my further requests and my further attempts to have myself be insured simply because of my genetic makeup.
We also think it's unjust for other corporations who may benefit off of my genetic material, who may find cures based on the things in my body, to profit off of it.
This will ultimately always benefit the wealthiest in our society and expand the wealth inequality, expand the somewhat authoritarian and orwellian surveillance state that we have in the status quo as technology becomes more pervasive and problematic.
My third and final argument is about policing.
We think that policing also is trying to store huge amounts of genetic information.
The ability to place individuals at a crime may be valuable, but the fact that police know things that we do not understand, our genetic makeup, when we do not and have access that without our consent is incredibly problematic.
Because we think the police are the most common violators of our privacy, because we think that the government cannot be trusted with this kind of information, we should limit genetic testing.