We should increase student financial aid in the united states.
It's criminal that the average student's tuition is upwards of forty thousand dollars.
For anyone who's not attending a state school, they are family must spend nearly a year's income just to keep them in school.
This makes education a privilege only for the wealthiest individuals.
This may have been fine a hundred years ago, back when a college education wasn't essential, but in the twenty first century it's been shown that if you don't have a college education you really just can't find a job.
As such it has become essential that all people can access it, otherwise they will suffer for the rest of their lives.
Because we think it's so important, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government substantially increase its loan program, its scholarship program, and create a tax credit, a special tax credit, where companies and scholarship programs can put more money into scholarships and get a larger tax break.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First about equality of access.
We think that the most important equality is one in which all individuals have access the same resources.
Although equality of outcomes is also somewhat important, if all people start at a truly level playing ground and their success is measured by their own merit and by their own ability to work as hard as possible, then it's largely fair system.
There'll always be systematic biases that prevent certain individuals from attaining the best of all possible lives, but if we can assure equality of access at the very least, we will massively reduce the total amount of inequality in our world.
The place where we must start is education.
By creating equality of access to education, we guarantee that all people have the ability to articulate their ideas effectively.
We think that a college education massively improves individuals' ability to talk with one another, argue with one another, learn more languages, and just understand the world around you.
This is pivotal to actually be able to argue for yourself on a political level.
Not only that, we think that it will improve the total amount of money going to people of color, going to disenfranchised groups which will allow them to reinvest that money into their community guaranteeing that other people can become empowered and the total inequality can decrease further.
Ultimately decreasing inequality decreases suffering, decreases death, and ultimately makes it so we've got more fair and just world.
My second argument is about the benefits of education overall.
We think that having an educated populace is not just good because it lets disenfranchised people empower themselves because people can literally understand what's happening around them better.
They understand what's true and what's false in the news.
They can better argue their points and better understand how government spending and government efforts affect the world around them.
As such we think that democracy is empowered as more individuals get educated.
They can better fight for their ideas but they can better understand the ideas and as such we think that votes are far more likely to truly reflect the social and societal good rather than individual prejudices.
My third and final argument is about reduced debt.
In the status quo many people can access education but they have to take out massive amounts of loans in order to do so.
We think that increasing the total amount of scholarships around the country decreases the amount of debt that people have.
This is important because we think that first, that largely decreases individuals' morale and makes it more difficult for them to work effectively and just live happy lives.
Secondly, debt is a scheme to empower the richest people in our society.
It's a way in which people who have capital can use their capital to just get more money over time until people simply payoff millions of dollars for even just a few hundred thousand dollar loan.
We think that reduced debt decreases inequality while empowering individuals and increasing their morale which is an essential thing for the twenty first century.
For this reason, we should increase student financial aid in the united states.