We should increase gun control.
Guns taking unacceptable number of lives every single year.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that the united states federal government should immediately ban all semi automatic and automatic weapons.
Further more to get any sort of weapon it will require a background check, a criminal history check, which prevents all violent criminals from getting another weapon and will require all individuals who want to get a gun to buy gun insurance.
Three arguments for why this will save lives: first on criminal access.
To reasons why criminals will have a harder time getting guns in this world.
First, gun prices will increase by a massive amount.
In the status quo individuals who sell illegal guns first bring them into the country as legal weapons or purchase them from a gun reseller as a legal gun.
They then scratch off the serial number and sell it to a criminal.
Unfortunately this allows criminals to access weapons at nearly the same price as legal weapons.
By banning all semi automatic weapons criminals will have to spend a massive amount more to buy a weapon at all.
This means that the increased price due to shipping and smuggling will lead to far less gun crimes in the united states.
We would say that criminals generally need a semi automatic or automatic weapon to commit crimes because if you can only shoot a single shot and then you will be swarmed by individuals who are then arrest you, you have very little power to actually rob places like banks or stores.
The second reason why criminal access will decrease is that cops will be able to arrest individuals immediately if they have a semi-automatic weapon.
This means that their rapid response and the ability to simply stop individuals based on the weapons that they have on them will allow them to prevent these crimes in the first place.
My second argument is about accidental harms.
A massive number of individuals in the united states die every single year due to accidental usage of guns.
This can occur in a few ways: first, children getting access to guns and playing with them as though their toys.
This kills huge numbers of people every single year simply because a child is able to find these guns.
Increased price, prices and checks on the guns will decrease the usage of these weapons.
But furthermore we would say that gun insurance will guarantee that individuals are likely to hide their guns better and buy a gun safe in order to decrease their premiums.
Secondly though, we think it'll decrease deaths in terms of things like crossfire and racist crimes.
Generally a huge number of people die each year because they think someone is a threat and they shoot them.
These people are rarely actually a threat and as such they are committing murder and getting away scotch free.
By banning these weapons outright, by making it so individuals fear to take the first shot because they will lose all of their leverage and then be seen as a threat, this will substantially decrease vigilante and accidental shootings.
My third argument is about the effects on policing writ large.
Fewer guns makes cops less scared.
This is incredibly important because most police brutality and violence comes from scared cops.
Scared to lose their power or scared scared to be harmed they will shoot individuals simply because they are afraid that they are reaching for a gun when they're actually reaching for their wallets or their cell phone.
By decreasing the total amount of guns, this excuse becomes less probable and means that less police brutality occurs or more police are prosecuted simply because it is a less less believable excuse now.
But secondly individuals are far less likely to take guns on their policing outings, given that they're not going to be necessary when you have pepper spray and a baton for individuals who don't themselves have guns.
For this reason we should increase gun control.