I stand in firm opposition to the motion the right to internet access should be protected.
The internet is a great and powerful tool, brings many people together, and allows for effective communication.
However, it is also rife with abuse and will inevitably become more problematic as time goes on.
As such, governments have the obligation to restrict internet access in particular cases, and businesses have the right to restrict internet access if it will help them in the market.
This is because there is no right to the internet, because the internet creates problematic echo chambers, and because there're violent communities on the internet which must be regulated.
Before I get on to those arguments, I want to give a brief overview.
Much of drew's speech depended on the idea that government will step in and restrict speech problematically, that it will destroy communities that are otherwise effective.
There's no clear warrant for why a government will destroy, say, a community about cooking, a community about people who suffer from a similar disease or problem in their life.
Only when speech becomes actively harmful will government step in.
Similarly, businesses have no incentive to massively restrict internet access, as the market allows other individuals to step in and take their spot were they to massively restrict freedom.
As such, much of this debate will be centered around problematic communities, those which governments have and should try to restrict access to.
First off, on how there is no right to the internet.
The only things which you have an inherent right to are those which guarantee political efficacy or are otherwise essential to your life and well-being.
We would say that the internet fails both of these criteria.
First, on political efficacy: although you have a right to speech, you do not have a right to any forum possible or any medium possible.
It would be unjust for me to say that I want to write a thousand letters to a variety of people and as such, government ought provide that to me.
Similarly, were I to spout abuse or hatred, government can and should ban that particular action as it doesn't create political efficacy, it simply creates violence between people.
On life and how on the criteria of life, the internet is not essential to live an effective life.
We would say that generally it's actually harmed people through inaction as they become internet activists or refuse to go outside and get exercise.
Although many jobs require the internet, it is unlikely that government will step in and ban these sort of things and if government does, we think that they have it a an ability to, as individuals, consent into the social contract to government action over forums of speech or whether otherwise interacting with third parties.
Similarly, businesses have a right to restrict access to the internet if it serves them, as businesses provide us with the infrastructure for the internet and as such, they have the final say over how they use their own resources.
Anything else would be government overstepping its bounds on the rights of businesses.
Now my second argument is how the internet creates echo chambers.
We would say that when individuals engage with the internet, they create communities around themselves in which they simply subscribe to their own views.
This is why we space much of the political polarization of today, because people subscribe to different news sources which spout different ideas and sometimes misinformation and generally become more violent with one another.
We would say that restricting these echo chambers would be effective in creating more bipartisanship and a more effective community writ large.
Finally, the internet is rife with violent communities.
There are communities which are actively sexist, racist, anti-semitic, and as such, government ought step in to smash these communities and stop them from essentially festering over and eventually creating violence.
These communities inevitably cause hate crimes, destroy property, and as such, were government not to step in, it would fail in its obligation to protect its citizens.
As such, the right to internet access should not be protected.