We should further exploit solar energy.
Solar energy is an essential tool in the ongoing fight against global warming.
Since the early two thousands, it's been incredibly effective.
It's allowed individuals who've installed them on their homes to pay little to no money in power bills every single month.
In many areas, individuals with solar panels are able to sell their excess energy to the state in order to recoup their costs at startling speeds.
Their unpopularity, their lack of overall integration into our society can be blamed largely on the goals of corporations, on the active misinformation campaigns of large fossil fuel firms who have generally harmed the entirety of the world in their fight against renewable energy.
Because we think that there is incredible benefits to be gained from solar energy, that are not currently, we would support the following model: that we substantially subsidize research and production of solar panels such that their cost is massively decreased.
We think that the average individual should be able to afford solar panels installed on their homes using about the amount of money that they would spend on power in a given year.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on global warming.
We think that solar panels are largely effective in solving global warming.
A massive amount of our total energy usage comes from corporations and comes from the resource extraction and burning of fossil fuels.
Huge amounts of CO two come from these kinds of efforts.
We think that global warming can be solved through solar panels, both as individuals stop consuming oil and as firms find it considerably cheaper to install solar panels on their buildings, decreasing our dependence on fossil fuels.
This will save us in the long term.
We think that global warming potentially poses an existential threat to humanity.
If we believe that extinction is a bad thing, we must act now to subsidize renewable energies, particularly solar energy.
We would also say that in the short term, states are harmed, states like tuvalu have gone underwater, refugees come from states and small fishing villages that have been flooded due to global warming, and this is a harm that we're seeing in the short run.
The short run isn't an amalgamation of long runs and the individual action is a dis-amalgamation of large collective action.
What we mean by this is as we subsidize individual action against global warming, as a whole, we will fight it into the long and short term, saving huge numbers of lives and causing considerably less violence than the alternative.
My second argument is about environmental harms.
We see huge amounts of smog being produced by oil.
We see that as forests are destroyed for coal, we see a destruction of areas.
We see landslides and huge loss in habitats.
We see that power producers largely destroy local industry and harm the health of individuals who are nearby.
Environmental harms do does not necessarily discuss the harms of global warming but discusses why our environment is essential and the cleanliness of our environment is essential in a good quality of life.
We think that solar panels prose pose a potential benefit as it will allow us to decrease our reliance on fossil fuels which cause these kind of environmental harms.
My third argument is about cheaper energy.
Solar energy's incredibly cheap.
It's incredibly easy to fund incredibly large projects, using solar energy as the way that you produce the energy and using that costs you save through solar energy as a way to pay for the project.
As such, we're going to see more innovation, decreased costs, generally just a better world for all in which people pay less money for better goods if we introduce solar energy.
As such, we should further exploit solar energy.