I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should privatize air traffic control.
Air traffic control is an incredibly important part of any airport infrastructure.
Air traffic controllers sit in front of radars all day, telling planes when it's safe to take off and land.
They give general flight patterns and they inform pilots about how they can exist in a safe manner.
When the government tries to give up its powers to certain private organizations so as to privatize certain parts of the government, it's largely failed.
If we look at things like prisons, we see rampant abuse as a result of privatization.
If we look at food safety, if we look at environmental protection, each time companies have failed.
But it's even more drastic in this case, because although we can suffer some inadequacy in those other departments, if air traffic traffic controllers are not consistently excellent and consistently on point, we'll see numerous collisions, we'll see massive inefficiencies and, ultimately, incredible loss of money.
To that end, I have a few arguments: first is safety.
Now, when we see this kind of competition, what we're going to see is that companies compete to spend the least money.
We see this in defense contracting.
We see this in private prison contracting.
Various companies bid and say, " this is the amount that we'll charge to do this service. "
They all promise similar amounts of service, but whoever gives the lowest number typically wins.
Now, this is problematic for air traffic control.
We already have one of the lowest rates of air traffic control efficacy in the in history.
Since air traffic controllers have become a necessity, we have a thirty year low at this point in time.
This is incredibly problematic, because this is the amount of money we're willing to spend on air traffic control.
When a company says that they will spend that same amount on air traffic control, they don't have any secrets to make everything more efficient and more effective.
What they'll do is pay workers less money, hire fewer people, and make their current workers work more hours.
The result is that you have more tired individuals, people who cannot keep up, people calling out sick.
This will cause airports to outright close or an air traffic controller may come to work, either way, because they have to in this society and, as a result, they may cause two planes to collide, decreasing individuals' faith in flying, and ultimately causing a nationwide emergency.
My second argument is that of cost, because we don't actually think that the government saves any money as a result of this.
Recognize that every single time a flight is grounded, especially due to the government's inadequacies, a company loses money.
People are angry.
People lose time and efficiency.
Ultimately, the only sort of restitution, the only way that the government can make things even is by transferring money from one person to another.
They can fine the companies and give money to the people flying.
That still leaves the company worse off.
They could give money to the companies from the government because it's the government's fault.
That still leaves the government and the taxpayer worse off.
Ultimately, the decrease in time, the decrease in the the efficiency is a deadweight loss that cannot be made up for.
This decrease in efficiency is incredibly problematic and, ultimately, diminishes the capacity for the economy to operate effectively.
We also think the total pay for many air traffic controllers will decrease, making the profession less profitable overall, making fewer people go into it and, as a result, we think that you'll have even fewer air traffic controllers to effectively manage your airports.
For this reason, we should not privatize air traffic control.