I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban breast implants.
Although breast implants may be a symptom of the patriarchy and a way in which individuals sometimes feel villainized by this misogynistic structure, we would say that blaming the victims of misogyny, for misogyny itself, is the worst way that we can go about this kind of policy.
The straight white men who control most governments telling women what they can and cannot do with their bodies is largely the biggest issue in regards to women's health of the twenty first century.
We think that banning breast implants is further telling women what they should or should not do with their own bodies.
It is a profound violation of them individually and largely infantilizes them, saying they cannot conceptualize their own choices and the results of them.
This leads me to my first point of opposition.
My point says that this will make people think that big boobs are more desirable, essentially saying this will expand the patriarchy.
So the total number of people who get breast implants is incredibly few.
Even a incredibly small percentage of those people are people who are doing it purely for cosmetic reasons.
The vast majority is because someone has got a mastectomy or otherwise would like to increase the size of their breasts to a more conventional size rather than making absurd adjustments.
We think that this doesn't cause the patriarchy, this is simply a response to it.
It's just true that women with larger breasts generally get paid more, it's true that they largely get more respect from men.
This is horrific and awful, but my opponent has shown no clear causal link to increased breast implants and increased societal views regarding big boobs.
The media will always portray women as objects or potentially not always but the incidence of breast implants does not affect this view of women.
As such all that we are doing here is punishing people based on the status of their birth instead of allowing them to change their bodies.
This brings me to my first argument, the reclamation of the self.
First we think many women feel unwhole, broken, just undesirable after mastectomies.
This is horrible, this is obviously not something that we should blame them for but banning breast implants largely does this.
We think that many women want to reclaim their own sexuality, want to reclaim the image that they once had and the image that they had through society.
We think that breast implants allow them to reclaim this image and empower themselves.
They feel more confident, more comfortable when they understand that people are not constantly staring at them and wondering what happened to them.
But in general we'd also say that even when people do not get mastectomies if someone feels more beautiful after a breast implant, if they feel more confident, they should be able to do it.
It is unclear why the government should step in and ban people just because there might be some minuscule third-party harms.
Every action has third-party harms.
Me talking in the room I'm currently in makes it so no one else in this room can talk, they'd be interrupted.
That's a clear externality and third-party harm but it would obviously be unjust to ban me from talking in this room.
This leads me to my second argument regarding government overstep.
This is largely a continuation of the last point.
We think that individuals are the best arbiters of their own good.
Restricting their rights to bodily control is largely an oppressive somewhat authoritarian expression of government control that we cannot allow.
My third argument is about spillover technology.
All technology used for purely cosmetic reasons also has implications and applications in noncosmetic fields as well.
The manipulation of fat tissue can be used for solving things like cleft lips and huge deformities.
We think that sterilization techniques that is sterilizing tools is an important value that comes from the mass amount of money that is in cosmetic surgery.
We think that if you value any conventional goods through medicine you also must allow cosmetic surgery to subsidize other forms of medicine.
For this reason we should not ban breast implants.