I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should privatize postal services.
The united states post office is a central part of our government.
Although there are private organizations which now cater to some of the needs the post office once fulfilled, we still think the post office is essential.
The ability to communicate with one another seamlessly and at very low costs is what makes the post office so effective.
What my opponent really misses in this debate is not that the post office is somehow just hemorrhaging money for no reason.
The reason the post office is not making money is because it offers goods and services at incredibly low prices, is the only way in which a variety of mail services could ever exist and it subsidizes the e-mail sent by all individuals.
We think that the capacity to communicate is essential for our democracy and for everyday life and although things like the internet now exist, removing the ability for individuals who do not want to use the internet or who have material too sensitive for the internet to use traditional forms of communication, fundamentally denies them a central tenet of their being and of self-actualization.
With that in mind, I have three arguments.
First on the right to communication.
We think that there's a right communication that should be protected by the government.
Once again, we think that politics can only be understood in a contextual framework.
If you do not know anyone else's situation for the vast majority of bills you could really never vote on them have any accurate understanding of what you're doing.
Even if a bill pertains to you without truly being able to discuss it with everyone around you, it's really not effective at being able to really understand the political ramifications of a particular form of policy.
We think that the post office is essential as a way to achieve this sort of political communication.
Although much of the mail I'll concede is spam, we think that things like voting guides and others come through the mail and largely can only come through the mail.
Although it's possible to find things like the women's league voting issues and how they believe people should vote on the internet, it's also possible to fake them.
Were I to be given three hours and access to a website, I could easily make a fake version of a voting guide which would mislead many individuals.
The post office has mechanisms to guarantee that individuals are being honest with who they are sending this mail from and you are able to verify things far more efficiently and easily.
Not only that, we just think that bridging any form of communication is ultimately denying individuals the capacity to self-actualize in a variety of respects.
My second argument is about how the postal service provides incredible amounts of infrastructure.
What's really really important here is that the only reason US PS and UPS and fedex can really exist is because of the actual infrastructure provided by the united states postal service.
If they didn't have post offices, if they didn't have defined mailing routes, if they didn't have a variety of other ways the post office subsidizes goods, fedex prices and UPS prices would be far higher.
This means that the average consumer would have to spend considerably more for products to get online, for anything they order, and for any mail based communication.
Ultimately, all of my argument all my opponent's arguments regarding the efficiency of private industries would fall flat because private industries cannot exist -out the post office.
My third argument is simply that discretion is good.
We think that the ability for individuals to decide between different forms of mail is effective and ultimately if the united states postal service is being priced out that just means less money you have to spend a subsidization but we don't need to have privatization to have a world where people can just simply choose among their options.
For this reason, we should not privatize the postal service.