I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase local government.
If there is one organization, one community that's proven to be truly incompetent, it's local government.
They have horrific candidates, they have profound moral hazards, and they have no accountability.
The result of the storm of horrific situations is one which cannot govern effectively, which wastes resources, and ultimately is prone for horrific abuse.
We think that local government is necessary in some ways.
It's essential that there are some capacity for small government to articulate itself, for nuanced policies to exist on a smaller scale, and for environmental protections to be based on whether you have a say a forest near you, a desert near you, or a tundra near you.
But when we increase the power of local government, when they're able to define more policies, control more laws, and express their power in other ways we think you ultimately violate rights to a horrific degree.
So as we know I three arguments.
First, worse candidates.
We think most local governments don't have real democratic processes.
The reason why is a single party is usually in power.
They have more money, more resources, there's a culture where you vote for that party.
So my opponent says that they're more representative, that they represent people's ideas more.
This simply untrue.
We think that you're usually forced to vote for a certain party.
That party controls the primary and they control the general because of their resources in a certain community.
Take portland for take portland for example.
Only democrats are elected in portland, oregon.
As such there's no real choice for individuals.
You can have a representative government to that choice and a real contrasting force which with which to truly compare your policies to.
Secondly we think that individuals who are good candidates, who are good at working with people, talking about their ideas, just don't run for local government.
They're far more likely to run for federal government and as such you get more individuals who are crazy, who are dangerous, who are angry on the local scale and as such you get worse candidates.
My second argument is about moral hazards.
There are a variety of moral hazards which are incredibly dangerous on a local scale.
For instance we think that individuals who spend too much in local governments, whether they be state or city governments, don't actually have to be accountable for this overspending.
Any budgets deficit that is run by a state is covered by the federal government.
As such they overspend to a massive degree.
If you can spend a ton of money and not raise taxes it looks really really good but you risk raising taxes on other people.
This is the true root of the problem.
Individuals will harm other localities either by overspending on their own budgets and taking money away from other people who tax a fair amount or by putting in policies that are truly archaic or have so much weird policy behind it that you can't understand it so that police can get more fines, can pull more people over, and largely the state can control their area with a more authoritarian system.
My third and final argument is that local governments have less accountability.
News stations have very little incentive to cover the news on a local scale when it comes to government.
It's just not very popular to hear what your local comptroller's doing.
However compare that to the federal government where the news is constantly talking about what is happening and talking about new policies pass they can understand it effectively.
Without a clear system to get information disseminated, the result is that people have less understanding, less accountability, and you have a less democratic system.
For this reason we should not increase local government.