I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish the american jobs act.
I have one overview followed by four arguments for why we should keep the american jobs act.
First off the overview on funding.
All that yaar really does is question he asks where the funding came from, he postulates that it might come from a problematic source, that it might not be enough.
If he had read the text of the bill or even the wikipedia page, he would understand that the funding for the bill comes from suspending payroll tax-breaks and increasing taxes on some medium-to-low income employees from the bush tax-cut era.
These are very marginal tax increases for the average medium-to-low income individual and the suspension of income payroll taxes measured up to about two hundred and forty five billion overall but on each and every individual the harms were fairly marginal.
With that out of the way, understanding where the funding comes from, most of his arguments fall flat.
It's very clear that the government can suspend payroll taxes that currently exists in order to fund other sectors of the economy and use that money considerably more efficiently.
Four arguments.
First off on youth employment.
A huge portion of the bill was putting sixty two million dollars for low-income youth and adults to get back to work.
This is essential for a few reasons.
First it prevents starvation.
Many people in low-income communities are unable to find jobs easily given that there are few jobs hiring near them, few business willing to open up in those areas, and that the harms of not having a job are considerably more pernicious.
As a result, the sixty two billion dollars that the bill put towards low-income youths and adults to finding jobs allow people to stop starvation and actually contribute to the economy considerably more efficiently.
This is clearly better than the payroll taxes that we're currently payroll tax breaks which were currently existing provided little incentive for large corporations.
Secondly it created an infrastructure bank.
Many of the much of the infrastructure in the united states is currently crumbling.
It is essential that the united states puts money towards rebuilding bridges, rebuilding roads.
First off it increases economic efficiency.
When you have better infrastructure, individuals are able to get to work easier, there are fewer accidents, and as a result the economy gets better.
This is a cyclical effect where the payroll taxes which had to be cut can the cost of those people taxes can be recouped by the businesses as their efficiency increases due to the infrastructure bank.
Secondly it puts a huge number of people in far safer conditions.
This means that fewer people are dying on the road, this means that people are less afraid on a day-to-day basis, and generally will lead to far less spending in the long term.
Thirdly, unemployment protection through this bill is essential.
It allowed individuals to search for the best job possible when they're able to have long term unemployment insurance and long term unemployment benefits through this bill.
Individuals were able to find the job which best suits them which increases economic efficiency as individuals fill the best slot for them in the economy and overall the economy gets better once again, recouping the costs of these payroll tax cuts.
Finally the bill increased school funding.
School funding in the united states both elementary, middle, high school, and even community colleges colleges the increase in funding in this regard allowed huge amounts of human capital to be increased in the united states.
In the next twenty years this will lead to huge economic benefits which will greatly recoup the costs of any increased taxes.
As such we should not abolish the american jobs act.