We should ban genetically modified crops.
Genetically modified crops, or GMOs, are largely misunderstood and incredibly problematic tool for feeding our population.
Each GMO is, at its most basic level, controlled by a corporation.
This has been proven time and time again through legal precedent and through simple domination through the market by large corporations.
But even worse than that, we think that feeding our population with tools that are largely misunderstood or science which is largely unproven is incredibly problematic.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that in the united states, GMOs should be banned.
We're only talking about crops, agriculture, in this debate.
We would further say that really simple techniques, such as grafting, are fine, but when you start to get into the million dollar projects, when you start to enter the lab, these kinds of GMOs will be banned.
Our first argument is about unproven and unverified science.
The vast majority of consumer goods require huge amounts of understanding before they can go to market.
We see this with pharmaceuticals.
The FDA requires that pharmaceuticals go through multiple rounds of rigorous testing to understand their effects on humans.
Unfortunately, GMOs do not have this same kind of rigor.
GMOs require incredibly little scientific testing and verification to ensure that there are not side effects on humans.
We think that this is incredibly rash and irresponsible.
In order to protect our population, is essential that we test GMOs more effectively, but there are a few reasons that this really will not happen.
First, we think that there's corporate capture in regulatory agencies.
Agricultural organizations and agricultural lobbies in the united states have incredible amounts of power and can prevent things like the FDA from effectively understanding and testing their GMOs.
Furthermore, we think that politicians are unlikely to support this kind of bill because individuals will see an increase in price in their food and, as such, they are unlikely to want to put greater tests on these kinds of GMOs in fear that it might affect their election chances.
To this end, we think that the only way to truly protect our populace, without having to depend on inherently partisan politicians, is to outright ban genetically modified crops.
Now my second argument is about corporate domination.
We see this with companies like monsanto all the time.
When large corporations patent genetically modified crops, farmers are unable to replant their seeds, they're unable to cultivate their own breeds and their own strains for resale and, largely, they lose a massive amount of autonomy that they enjoyed before.
This is incredibly problematic as it, first, increases the cost of our foods which we think is always reflected on the ultimate price that goes onto the consumer, but second, destroys farmer autonomy.
One of the reasons that agriculture has boomed over the last millennia is because we've been able to cultivate the best crops possible.
Putting this into the hands of a corporation creates a monopoly, and creates incredibly little incentive for them to meaningfully change.
My third and final argument is about pesticides and harmful chemicals.
Genetically modified crops are largely based on avoiding the harms of pesticides.
It allows us to spray horrific chemicals on our crops without them dying.
We think that many individuals do not wash their crops, do not understand the implications of what happens when the crops are sprayed with these chemicals and, as such, suffer as a result.
For this reason, we should ban genetically modified crops.