We should subsidize stem cell research.
Stem cells have been greatly taboo in the united states since their discovery in the twentieth century.
It was not until the early twenty tens that stem cell research was even legal in the united states.
Since the bush's bush administration banned the research and application of stem cells the united states has lagged behind the rest of the world in their research and as such has been unable to solve a variety of health crises that would otherwise be benefited by stem cell research.
Because we think this research is incredibly important and massively under covered in the status quo the model we propose is that the united states should subsidize stem cell research which the national institute of health deems good research.
Two arguments to support this motion.
For stuff on health and second off on the government's obligation and how to overstep that when it banned stem cell research.
On health.
In the status quo stem cell research has generally not been funded as much as it would have been had the government not stepped down.
This is because individuals are unclear on the importance of stem cells and are unclear if the government would later ban stem cells as they did in the past.
As far right conservatives in the united states rise to power the funding for stem cell research has even has dried up to an even greater extent.
If government step in and subsidize this research will first off serve as a signaling mechanism to researchers knowing that their research will actually be used by society and other funding is unlikely to dry up.
Secondly though stem cell research it will be most greatly benefited by public funding because the public is the greatest funder of research in the status quo.
Companies are unwilling to invest in products which they are unclear if they'll get a profit from.
If the united states federal government starts to invest large portions of taxpayer dollars into stem cell research first it will signal the companies that there's likely a benefit to investing in stem cell research but secondly it will likely lead to further discoveries which companies can use to their own benefit can use to lead to patentable medicine which will lead to create health benefits in the long term.
Some of the health benefits from stem cell research stem from two qualities which are inherent to stem cells.
First they're undifferentiated.
This means that stem cells can be used for a variety of purposes.
Damaged nerve endings in the brain or the spine loss of organs cancer attacking the bodies.
Stem cells can be used to regrow new cells and regrow new tissue which has been damaged by disease.
This means that many diseases we have had great difficulty solving in the past will likely be solved at least in part by the use of stem cells.
Secondly though stem cells proliferate at an incredibly fast rate.
This means that things like cancer which also which are the fast mutation of damaged cells can be solved at least in part by stem cells which proliferate at an even faster rate.
A variety of diseases which currently suck up trillions of dollars in charitable funding or have sucked up that much money can be solved by stem cell research also leading to the reallocation of resources which are currently being used for poor purposes.
The second argument that we'd like to put forward is that government has an obligation to right the wrongs of the past.
Because the bush administration banned stem cells and will lead to the essential moratorium on the research of stem cells has an obligation to right this past wrong by putting millions of dollars into the research of stem cells it will bring the united states up to speed up the rest of the country and because the US currently has a massive amount of researchers in a massive infrastructure for effective marketing of drugs and research of drugs it will lead to a even better drugs around the world need for even better applications of stem cells around the world for this reason we are so proud to propose