I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should protect endangered species.
Attempts to protect endangered species around the world have inevitably led to greater abuse and greater poaching of those species.
At the same time they have harmed poor communities in which the, in which endangered species can be found.
Quite simply, when the government steps in in this regard it harms the rights of all people while also leading to a massive decrease in the population of endangered species.
I have two arguments in today's debate: first how this creates adverse effects, and second how this harms the worst off.
So there are two adverse effects from putting something on the endangered species list: first, when a certain animal is discussed for the endangered species list we see farmers destroy their habitat and kill them as much as possible.
There're, take the spotted owl for instance.
In forests where the spotted owl had been seen, farmers torch the entire forest.
They they ensured that their land did not have any spotted owls on it, and if they found one they would shoot it on sight.
Now the reason for this is fairly obvious: if a spotted owl was found on their farm they would lose their entire farm.
They would have no ability to farm there, they couldn't let their cattle graze freely, they would essentially have no power over it and the government would take it away without paying them any money.
This leads to massive decreases in life for endangered species on the list.
Additionally, when an endangered species is found, farmers don't report it.
They'll kill it on sight, hoping that the government does not realize what happened.
Because the fines that were, that result from killing an endangered species are not comparable to losing your entire livelihood and your family's historical home because an endangered species was found on your property.
Instead we should allow private actors to take the endangered species and put them on private reserves.
Rather than having to sacrifice their entire farm, they will work with the government to protect them rather than losing the their entire area and their property.
The second adverse effect is that the price of endangered species increase massively.
Although there are not many prise hunters and western liberal democracies, if individuals can fetch a high price with endangered species fur, pelts, they will hunt that species.
If I can get ten thousand dollars for a spotted owl carcass or even a live spotted owl, I will try to capture them whenever possible.
Putting something on the endangered species list simply signal to buyers at the price should go up.
Now this leads to actually more poaching and more hunting of these species and less cooperation with government.
If we want to protect endangered species we must abolish all government protection of these species and allow private actors to step in instead.
My second argument is that this will harm the worst off overall.
Wealthier individuals, particularly those in cities, do not have to worry about endangered species.
They've already decided to destroy all nature there, and as such are rewarded with the fact that they do not live around endangered species.
Poor farmers, individuals in rural communities, are ultimately the ones that are harmed most off.
This occurs in two ways: first, sanctuaries are largely built with eminent domain.
If you have an area which you consider to be effective for raising endangered species, you will push poor farmers off that area.
You will always go to the poorest communities because those are the ones with the least property value.
You won't go to a wealthier area or a place with a factory farm, because those individuals can rake you over the coals.
Can use their lawyers to make sure that you pay millions of dollars to enact eminent domain.
Instead you will steal the land from poor individuals, pay them pennies on the dollar for that land and ultimately leaving them far worse off.
Secondly a lot of the time these poor farmers live around these forests overall and we must address that these harms are far more meaningful than the harm to endangered species.
Ultimately the rights of animals do not weigh in any meaningful way against the rights of humans to continue living in the area where their family has lived for generations.
As such we should not protect endangered species.