We should ban school uniforms.
School uniforms serve essentially no purpose outside of what regular regulation on clothes would actually do.
We think that you can prevent things like gang signs on clothes, scantily clad clothes, using basic regulation, but forcing uniformity through a uniform is far more likely to impede the ability for students to freely engage with one another and to essentially express themselves in the best way possible.
To that end, we would support the following model: that in the united states, no school be allowed to force all children to wear the same outfit, even if it's with just within their gender.
We are not going to say that schools cannot regulate exactly what children wear when they're actually saying what's not allowed.
We think that stopping people from just wearing their underwear or wearing slurs on their shirt is probably good policy, but if they want to express this sort of uniformity, that would be banned.
My first argument is that students have a first amendment right that should be protected.
Although the courts have ruled a few times that students do not have first amendment rights in schools, we think, first, that this is a problematic decision, and second, it should not extend to the clothes that students wear when it is not destructive.
So, first on just the morality.
We think that this sort of policy is largely informed by archaic and largely unknown nuanced perceptions of how students engage.
We think that, in the modern day, as technology becomes more prevalent, as discourses regarding rights abuses become more common at a younger age, students are far more effective at being able to understand and express their rights.
As such, they are also able to engage politically far more easily.
Any individual who has voted in the last decade was affected at least somewhat by the news they read online and the comments that people put on them.
As such, we think that even young students, those in early high school, may have had some effect on the politics of either their classmates or of the people around them.
Restricting their ability to freely speak by restricting their ability to wear particular clothes is a, then, a violation of their first amendment rights.
It prevents them, first, from self-actualizing, as they cannot be happy with what they're wearing, but secondly, it restricts their political speech as well.
We think that the only time that restricting political speech is justified is when that political speech disrupts the school itself, but we think that other regulations can cover this.
Now my second argument is that this puts unfair standards on students.
Where do we see this?
First is with women in schools.
We think that these sort of policies usually force women to wear more clothes and have their clothes at a higher standard.
We think that, in the winter, it largely means that they still have to wear these sort of dresses, these tights, and as such, they're far more likely to be cold.
They're far more likely to be scrutinized and chastised based on the outfits they wear.
Conversely, we also think it harms men as well as, during the summer, men are still forced to wear khakis, can't change into shorts and as such, are uncomfortable.
We think that the comfort of students is worth far more than the egos of administrators who attempt to force a uniform on students of the school that they're controlling.
Secondly, though, we think that this is a bad policy for kids in poverty.
Why is this the case?
First, damaged clothes are harder to replace.
When I was a kid, if I were to ruin my pants, I could go to a goodwill or another thrift shop and buy new pants incredibly cheaply.
Were there a uniform and I had to buy it through the same sort of organization every time, my parents would be incredibly hard-pressed to actually fulfill this sort of obligation.
We think that's unfair to put particular harms on students, even if it's not written into the policy itself.
If the effect is classist, it should not be enforced.
Additionally, we think that things like dirty clothes, we think that inabilities to essentially get to the laundromat at a particular time, are far more likely to be punished for students in poverty, pushing them into worse classes, pushing them through more disciplinary action, and largely harming their efforts in the rest of their life.
For this reason, we should ban school uniforms.