We should abandon the presidential system.
The presidential system is, frankly, irrational.
At many times, it pits a president from one party against a congress ruled by another.
This is a recipe for gridlock, as each of these parties have the incentive to harm one another.
It's a zero-sum game in the united states system which largely benefits any politician who can blame gridlock or slowness on the other party, even if it is their own fault.
Presidential system simply exacerbates this and with that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the presidential system should be abolished and instead, the majority party in congress should be able to put one of their politicians in power.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on less gridlock.
As I alluded to in my introduction, when the president is from one party and congress is controlled by another, nothing can get done.
The president, as the figurehead of the country, is largely blamed for many of the administrative and legislative failures that occur, even if it is not their fault.
As such, a congress controlled by the party which does not control the executive will fail to send any bills to the president or, at the very least, any bills which the president would support or sign.
This sort of strategic gridlock is fundamentally problematic but would not occur if the majority party could put their leader into the position of president instead.
Additionally, we believe that gridlock can also occur simply because of disagreements.
If a fringe candidate were to win the president or if a fringe party would become powerful in congress, very few bills would be sent to the president which they themselves would agree with.
The presidential veto or the failure to sign a bill would mean that many laws which could be passed would fail to pass at all.
We believe that passing bills is generally better than not passing bills, because even if sometimes the specific wording of a bill goes too far or otherwise is not the best possible phrasing, we think that any attempt to change from the status quo is good.
If, at the very least, we can experiment, we can continuously move into the future and approach a better state of affairs.
If we are static, we simply cannot do that.
My second argument is more accountability.
Once again, if politicians are able to blame their personal failings on one another, then the politician has a massive incentive to slow things down as much as possible.
We believe that if the majority party has to put someone in power, they will be more accountable for their president.
So, for instance, if the republicans put trump into power, they could be blamed for trump's failings and could not say that they did not actually want him in power in the first place.
On the flip side of this, we think that particular politicians on the democratic party would not necessarily get into the position of president due to the fact the democrats want to continuously get more support, so you're less likely to see fringe candidates get to the presidential level.
This leads to greater accountability, as a whole, as politicians will be more concerned about how the public sees them, particularly when they take actions which harm the whole of the population, such as purposely slowing down the passage of bills.
My third and final argument is that the electoral college is simply bad.
We think that insofar as the presidential system is fundamentally undemocratic in the status quo, it should not be pursued.
When the presidential system allows a president to get into power despite not winning the majority of votes, it that the system must be outright abolished.
We think a system which puts a president into power based on how many seats they have in the congress will ultimately lead to a more democratic system as a whole and a more fair system of governance.