I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should abandon television.
Television represents the result of a variety of market factors.
Market factors largely represent the democratic will of the people insofar as allocations of money and allocations of time are largely used to collect the largest audience possible.
Very simply, we would say that abandoning television would be abandoning a huge amount of learning done by the market as a whole into what is the best form of entertainment and most productive form of entertainment.
One overview for my two arguments.
My overview is very simply that television access really isn't hard.
In the status quo, there's already open-access television.
That is, non-cable-based news stations can get a television television station for free, can broadcast for free in almost any situation.
The reason we have cable networks is because we like the content they produce, and we don't watch the free networks because the content they produce is, honestly, largely awful.
It is very clear with that mind that we should abandon television.
Three arguments to support this: first is that a large capital base means that you get better products.
First, the institutional memory and the systems of polling and collecting information in place at television station means that they can learn what consumers want far more easily.
They can produce shows which are uniquely catered to the needs of consumers, and they can learn from their mistakes over time.
If small corporations or small news stations produce a single show which loses them money, they could easily go under, but large corporations can produce hundreds of shows and the ones that go under just go away, and the shows that we enjoy the most continue being made.
This is important for good media insofar as the inability to learn will simply lead to these small news stations doing the same mistakes over and over and collapsing as a result.
Secondly, though, these shows can get huge increases in quality through the cash that these news stations TV stations already have: the ability to spend on special effects, top quality actors, and simply better crew writers.
The whole system will simply have more cash going into it and as such, a better product will likely come out.
The best writers charge more for their services simply because they know that they can get the most viewers possible.
With huge capital bases, television stations can produce media which is very well written and well created as a whole which is what, honestly, the audience wants.
My second argument is that connection is bad.
If you go on twitch chat, if you go onto youtube comments, if you go onto any modern streaming service and look at the comments, it is a slew of emotes, racial slurs, antisemitic speech.
Honestly, it's produced some of the most vile communities on the internet and in the world as a whole.
It is unclear why tim thinks that this is a productive form of communication and very simply, this connection just leads to more jaded people and more angry people.
My third argument is there's less contact to differing viewpoints and differing shows.
Yes, they'll be more shows catered to particular ideals and catered to niche audiences if we abandon television, but it is bad that we have these sort of systems right now.
The fact that info wars, the fact that fox news, the fact that a variety of services are now catering to smaller extreme audiences means that it's far more difficult to get information dissemination, and this lead to political stratification and social stratification, which leads to the current gridlock and anger we have in the status quo.
The fact that donald trump has been elected is elected is a testament to the danger which abandoning mainstream forms of media and communication have.
Very simply, we should not abandon television.
Thank you.