We should end mining.
Although mining brings many valuable -sources to our society we would say that we are saturated with natural resources.
Instead of using things like recycling and responsible procedures for management of our resources, instead we continue to mine and mine and mine.
This is incredibly problematic as in the long term, this sort of mining has destroyed ecosystems and will continue to contribute to a harmed environment while also generally harming our work force as well.
With this in mind, we would propose the following model: that the world come together and sign an agreement where they will cut mining to forty percent of its current amount that is to say, only the most profitable and safe mining procedures will be continued and within twenty years the goal will be a zero percent amount of mining with only very minor restrictions and regulations.
As a brief overview, I want to say that necessity is the mother of invention.
We think that as you get rid of mining, that's when people are pushed to really innovate recycling, to find technology which is valuable and cheap and allow society to access it with very few barriers.
This leads me to my first argument regarding the environment.
We would say that mining has contributed a massive amount to global warming.
Not only does mining cause gas to be entered into the market which then releases carbon into the atmosphere causing global warming, we think that mining generally destroys ecosystems, destroying forests which are important for regulating the environment.
They pollute rivers and kill animals who are important for maintaining ecosystems.
Generally it just contributes to global warming.
If we do not take immediate action such as cutting away all mining in the short term, we think that we as a species are doomed.
The existential destruction of all of humanity is the greatest possible harm because no rights, no goods, no values, can be accessed if all of humanity is dead or dying.
Additionally, we think mining leads to massive amounts of seismic disruption which can cause polluted tap water, which can destroy towns, which generally is just bad for anyone around it.
My second argument is about affordability particularly regarding tech.
We think that in the short term, there's not enough energy, there's not enough money going into innovation and researching of recycling given that it is very cheap to mine in the status quo.
If we ban it a few things will happen.
There'll be a short term rut where individuals have a difficult time accessing resources.
We're okay with that because as recycling becomes more common and more innovative, we think that because there's enough resources in the market right now, it's oversaturated honestly, as recycling gets better, resources will become considerably cheaper, nearly dirt cheap, as long as there's enough for all individuals to access it.
At that point, this will massively increase our tech sector and industrial sector as well as we can produce goods with recycled materials that then have little to no waste.
My third argument is about the empowerment through labor diversification.
In the status quo, huge sections of the world economy is controlled by companies who are mining.
They control whole areas depressing wages and depressing education in order to insure that their workforce is plentiful and easily manipulated.
This is incredibly problematic.
We think that as mining goes away, these communities will be able to flourish.
The companies that lobby politicians to put down wages will be taken out.
We think that as this occurs, as we move towards renewable energy and greater amounts of recycling instead, individuals will require a better education, be less manipulatable and as such, promote a more flourishing and powerful democracy.
For this reason, we should end mining.