I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end international aid.
It is truly unjust to create a dependency and then to pull out of the way without warning.
Even if you buy everything my opponent provides to you, we have created a problem in developing states.
Many states have lost the capital and have lost the capital development which would otherwise be going to things like their farms would be going to things that the international community provides on their behalf.
I'm going to tell you how this dependency is not actually harmful, but we would also say if the government were to pull the rug out from under these individuals it would be truly leaving them in the worst situation possible.
With that in mind, I have two arguments.
First, on the obligations of wealthy states and second, on how international aid is essential for development.
First, what are the obligations of of wealthy states?
We believe that wealthy states are rich on because of developing states.
Many times the reason that the united states and european states have so much money is because they colonized and manipulated developing states.
We see this in slavery, where the united states stole people from their native lands in order to fund their own projects.
We see this in colonialism where european states divided and exploited various parts of africa in order to actually steal their material wealth.
But we also see this in current trade where the united states allows things like unjust labor practices simply because it wants decreased costs on their products and where proxy conflicts are used time and time again essentially forcing governments into violence just to appease larger states.
Because of all of these horrific things that western states have done, we believe that there is some obligation to actually pay reparations.
Now reparations don't simply need to be a wrote cash transfer transfer.
It's not just the US handing these governments millions of dollars particularly when these conflicts are ongoing and when direct money transfers would be less effective for actually creating good.
Instead, international aid just serves as at least a small form of the sort of the money that we owe to these organizations.
We think that it is essential that these western states pay back their obligations through reparations but we would also say that this money saves lives a lot of the time.
The reason that we send food aid to states that would otherwise be farming is because even if they had a farming economy there would still be starving children, people who are dying of preventable diseases.
The ability to send the sort of aid saves thousands of lives and even if it has some small economic harms we think that is worth it to save the lives of the worst off over all.
My second argument will tell you why they are not actually economic harms.
Now why is this the case?
First, we think that aid includes a lot of other things rather than just food aid.
Development aid goes to infrastructure which allows corporations to actually transport their goods and guarantee efficient usage of their labor resources.
It goes to law and government guaranteeing that their policies which are predictable and systems of law which make it so foreign governments can not simply abuse local individuals for their own gain.
This development aid is essential for creating an economy which is stable.
If you create a stable state you increase the amount of total investment into that state and as such development aid is in a way reciprocal.
The government can or western governments can first step in to build the state and then private actors can step in to fund the state as they have greater incentive to do so through profit motives.
We'd also say that food aid is actually good for the economy as well.
Like food aid is never enough to actually meet the entire needs of the people.
In the same way, farms are never enough to meet the toll needs of the people.
By having both at once, we guarantee that all individuals can be fed or at least afford some amount of food to survive, but we'd also say that this sort of aid is typically in the form of money given through and NGO's.
These NGO's can target specifically where the food is needed.
So rather than spending money right in say nairobi, it spends it in poorer areas around it order to guarantee that the poor individuals can still afford it but farms can still sell their goods.
For this reason, we should not end international aid.