I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban full body scanners.
My opponent and most of society has fallen victim to a campaign of false information.
When full body scanners were announced many individuals feared that they would be seen naked, that they would essentially be abused or otherwise harassed by airport employees.
These fears are wholly unfounded.
All that a full body scanner does is make essentially a stick figure image of your body and indicate where there is a potential for individuals to be smuggling goods.
They are no less invasive than other forms of scanning, but are multitudes, magnitudes of times more effective in stopping contraband and weapons from going on to airplanes.
With that in mind I have two arguments: first on safety and second on optics.
So before we get on to this though, I want to address some of the arguments that my opponent makes.
The first argument they talk about is how this is an invasion of privacy.
They say that individuals have a right to their body and that they should be feel secure in what how they actually feel.
First we would say that full body scanners are no worse than a metal detector.
They don't actually image your body, they simply scan for contraband that might be hidden on it.
In this way we would say that they're just like a metal detector.
If my opponent is comfortable having more metal detectors in lieu of full body scanners, they do not actually care about privacy rights.
In the same way we would say that when airport employees do a optical scan, essentially look over an individual, they're being just as abusive to an individual's privacy rights as a full body scanner.
But secondly though we would say that individuals consent to this harm.
I consent to the harm of being pat down by the secret service if I ever want to shake the president's hand.
I consent to the harms of being scanned or even like cavity searched if I attempt to bring a weapon, or even attempt to enter a courthouse.
We do this because we understand that there is an increased danger in these areas of individuals bringing weapons or other dangerous goods.
With that mind we think that privacy don't rights don't matter if you've already consented to be in the space and accepted that the full body scanners will be used.
Before I get into my arguments again, like to address another argument my opponent makes, which is that scanners are just as effective in preventing harms against individuals.
First this is fundamentally untrue.
Scanners are not actually excuse me full metal detectors are not effective in finding anything that isn't metal.
This means that if I like print a ceramic knife the metal detectors will not find it.
Or if I print a three different zip gun, these detectors will not find it even though I could kill someone with one of these weapons.
My opponent suggests that people will evolve around these full body scanners.
This is untrue.
It's impossible to evolve around the idea that you need to smuggle things on your body, but is easy to evolve around things like metal detectors using the tools that I've already discussed.
My first argument is about safety.
We think the full body scanners are effective in preventing terrorism and violence.
We've seen a massive decrease in the amount of like plain-jackings, the amount of hostage situations on planes, as a result of increased airport security and full body scanners.
But secondly, we think this encourages the development of security apparatuses which are less invasive.
The full body scanner was created as a result of the metal detector.
And the full body scanners will also be used to create more effective scanning tools into the future.
This will decrease the total amounts of rights violations while increasing the amount of rights respect in regards to safety and security.
My second argument is about the optics of these items.
We think that if we were to remove full body scanners you will increase the amount of strip searches and cavity searches.
This is because the government is used to a certain level of protection and the only way we can maintain that level of safety is by actually implementing other abusive means.
These means are far worse for the individual and as such if you care about privacy rights you will not ban full body scanners.
Secondly though we think that individuals will feel more biased against individuals who they feel necessary to harass if they believe they might bring on weapons.
The full body scanner gets all people a peace of mind which guarantees that they do not take a vigilante action to try to scan or otherwise check an individual for weapons.
For this reason I am so proud to oppose.