We should further exploit nuclear power.
Nuclear power gets a bad rap in the status quo.
There've been some disasters in the past which have been caused by gross negligence and gross incompetence but also have been vastly overstated in terms of their effect.
Although there was chernobyl which was an act of pure ignorance and which has never happened since and will never happen going to the future, every other nuclear disaster has been fairly minor in comparison.
That being said, oil production and oil extraction has caused considerably worse disasters than nuclear power ever has.
If you look to the BP oil spill in the gulf of mexico or you look to the bhopal disaster in india, we see millions of lies lives lost, massive amounts of ecosystems destroyed, and general destruction as a result of the incompetence of these companies.
Because we think that nuclear power could be applied to a much greater effect and improve the world considerably, we propose the following model that the united states build a multitudinous nuclear reactors around the country, be in a purchasing more fissile material, and generally rely on nuclear power more.
I have two arguments in today's debate.
First, about the environment and second, about the political motives of this sort of action.
So first on the environment.
Why do we think nuclear power is good for the environment?
In terms of global warming it produces incredibly little carbon dioxide.
It contributes very little to global warming writ large.
It has no carcinogens and if you're not being actively irradiated, it generally does not hurt you.
Similarly, nuclear power doesn't actually irradiate individuals who work there to an extent that would harm them in any meaningful capacity.
A vast amount of research is available on this subject which demonstrates that nuclear reactor operators are just as healthy as anyone else.
Additionally, nuclear reactors only release steam as a by product meaning they don't hurt their local environment either.
This has two effects.
First, it stops the existential destruction of mankind.
We think this comes in two forms.
It stops the total continuation of global warming, the increasing of our temperatures, the melting of the ice caps which put all lives at risk, and it saves small states which have depended on fishing and which have very very little space between the ocean which are currently being put under water due to global warming.
The second effect of adopting nuclear power is that it will clean up the environments where coal is currently used.
Fracking and the burning of coal destroy environments.
It gave people asthma, destroys any sort of wildlife in the area, and is generally harmful to the world.
Nuclear power in releasing only steam will protect the local wildlife and guarantee that these animals and ecosystems are protected.
My second argument is about the political effects of nuclear power.
In the status quo the oil lobby is able to manipulate politics to an unacceptable degree.
The koch brothers who made their money and oil are able to put candidates into power who strip away welfare, decreased taxes for the wealthy, and generally support problematic politicians.
Nuclear power being primarily state run, will weaken these individual's power in legislature guaranteeing that democracy reigns.
Government has an obligation to guarantee that democracy can work to the fullest effect because without it the government will inevitably fall into autocratic policies because the people can no longer check it.
For this reason, we should further exploit nuclear power.