We should criminalize victim blaming.
Victim blaming is often a way in which police ignore their responsibilities instead placing the onus of crimes on the victims of those crimes.
This is most often the case in cases of sexual assault and harassment where individuals, particularly women who have been harassed on the street or in personal situations, are then blamed for their own harassment.
We believe this is fundamentally unacceptable and as such we would propose the following model: that any police officer who victim blames a individual who has been the subject of a crime, particularly sexual crimes, be put on leave, be investigated, and if found guilty have punishments ranging from a fine to outright expulsion from the police force.
I have three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First better investigations.
There are two ways in which we improve investigations when we criminalize victim blaming.
First we think that police officers simply waste less time.
Interrogating the victim, taking them away, and simply asking them questions rather than trying to find the reasons why something happened is a massive waste of time.
We think that things like DNA evidence and remembering particular events is most powerful twelve to twenty four hours after an event occurs.
But if you're wasting time asking the victim questions about how they're dressed or how they were acting you really can't find the criminal as efficiently.
The second way we get better investigations is psychological.
We think that thoughts and speech are intrinsically intertwined.
So if I say something, even if I don't completely believe it, the more I say it the more I believe it.
This means as police officers victim blame more often they are far more likely to adopt a mindset which allows them to victim blame more easily.
This one, prevents them from actually empathizing with women and being a comfort a comforting individual for them to depend on but two, we think it makes them simply less interested in the case and less able to understand the facts of the case.
Ultimately we think that you get less information from the victim while also wasting time, while also preventing you from truly conceptualizing the harm that occurred in these kinds of cases.
My second argument is about reducing trauma.
We think that individuals who have been the subject of a sexual crimes experience massive amounts of trauma.
The primary purpose of police officers as with any civil servant is to make the lives of citizens better, to serve the people who have been harmed.
This is a dual purpose.
What we mean by this is they both need to catch criminals but they also need to be able to minimize the harm they do.
We would say that police should have some sort of hippocratic oath which begins once again with first do no harm.
By avoiding victim blaming and helping victims as much as possible, we think that you fundamentally reduce trauma and allow individuals to better overcome the harms against them.
My third and final argument is simply about police accountability.
A culture of accountability is necessary for any police officer to be a just power in their community.
We think that when individuals do not have any accountability, first the citizens will not trust police officers, but second we think that police officers have power go to their head, feel that they are above the average citizen, and then become far more likely to break other laws or to harm individuals.
By starting a small precedent of holding police officers accountable for how they speak and act towards victims, we think that we can create a culture of accountability which ultimately will will reduce deaths and increase the trust of police officers.
For this reason, we should criminalize victim blaming.