We should abolish standardized tests.
Standardized tests represent the worst aspects of the educational system.
They are used to impose the will of government bureaucrats upon teachers with years of training and largely constrict students and making their life considerably more difficult and making their future even more unsure.
With that in mind we would say that any actor in a school which uses standardized tests should cease their use immediately.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First, it's a horrible metric to judge students.
Standardized tests represent a single skill which many individuals are poorly equipped to actually execute.
They lead to massive amounts of anxiety, they are unrealistic and unrepresentative of the real world, and are largely very difficult for students to do well on.
As I just stated, the fact that it is not reflective of the real world further means it has no place in our educational system.
The only accommodations which students can get are medical accommodations which are is not representative of the rest of the school system because students who need more time can typically get more time from a teacher, but furthermore it's very unlikely that a student will be in a situation where they have to regurgitate information that they were told earlier without any other material at their side.
Standardized tests represent a simple route learning experience where individuals simply cram as much knowledge as they can and then repeat it the next day and typically students forget everything that they've learned on these standardized tests because, once again, they are not reflective of the real world and are not useful when moving forward.
Additionally it's a horrible metric to judge students because it is hugely classist.
First because anxiety has an echoing effect.
That is when students are nervous they do worse when they can't afford to prepare themselves effectively they're far more likely to get anxious, so students who can prepare effectively can mitigate anxiety completely while also having more tools to do well on the standardized test while students in poverty, who have fewer tools, even if they are smart enough to do well on the test, will feel considerably more anxiety.
Additionally, it's usually classist because the the standardized nature of tests means that they will there will always be tools to prepare for wealthy individuals.
Wealthy people can employ tutors, can buy more books, and simply learn the tips and tricks of a particular test, and as such skew the curve so that poor students do worse.
This should not determine whether a student gets into college or gets a particular scholarship, rather it should be based on the school system that they're in.
Now the second reason why we should abolish standardized tests is it's a horrible metric for teachers.
Now if this tool is out there, it will be used.
If bureaucrats believe that they can measure teachers with a simple number they will use it to punish or reward teachers which is horrible when it comes to teacher autonomy and the ability to effectively teach students.
When bureaucrats reach into the classroom, when they meddle, what happens is student or teachers lose passion and are largely unable to actually accommodate their students in in an effective way.
No child left behind made many teachers teach subjects that their students are not prepared for because a student had been woefully under prepared in a previous year.
When they lose this sort of autonomy, when they are their pay is based on a test, they will always teach worse.
Additionally, teaching to the test is generally bad.
As I've already discussed at length, there is very little real world knowledge which comes from teaching to the test and as such students who are taught this way are going to do worse when it comes to the long term.
Additionally though when you have less curriculum control you are less passionate about the subjects that you're teaching and as such will be worse at actually teaching students effectively.
For this reason we should abolish standardized tests.