We should fight gender inequality.
There are few topics as intuitively true as fighting gender inequality.
It represents a massive violation of the rights of women and of all individuals of genders that exist outside of the binary.
We think that individuals have inherent value and inherently equal value upon birth.
Because gender is in a factor of your birth, rather than a factor of personal choice, the fact that you are equal at birth necessarily means that you are equal among genders.
We would say that we should fight gender inequality for three main reasons.
First off is about the lottery of birth.
Recognize that individuals have no choice on their gender.
Even if someone does not represent the binary, they still identify with their gender because of either biological function or socialization into what they believe particular genders are.
Either way did not choose their gender, it has been thrust upon them.
This means that harming individuals because of something that they had no choice in is not necessarily unjust.
There's an apriori government obligation to guarantee that individuals do not come into harm due to actions that they had no control over.
We think that this is a fundamental claim of justice.
If individuals were harmed due to things they had no choice over, they would effectively be internalizing the harms that other individuals had caused against them with no effective recourse.
As such we think that all individuals have an obligation to fight gender inequality.
Men have an obligation because they extend and continue the system of gender inequality, women have this obligation both to themselves and be to all other women necessarily suffer from similar harms.
My second argument is about the value of equality in general.
We think that genders have equal value just intuitively.
There's no reason that one gender or another gender is better at any specific tasks.
Yes sometimes men can lift heavier objects, yes women can give birth, however we think that the fact that we have discriminate based on biological function will effectively mean that we depend on arbitrary distinctions between individuals.
It is intuitively true that individuals have equal value in their gender insofar as they have equal say in our society, insofar as our society necessarily puts value on equality, and because we think that all individuals have an obligation to one another insofar as all individuals had necessarily contributed to one another's success.
Furthermore we think that the very underpinnings of democracy depends on all people having equal value and equal rights and as such gender inequality reduces this.
My third and final argument is about efficiency because we think gender equality is just simply inefficient.
We think that the morality behind gender inequality is enough reason to fight it but at the point where it is also better for society to fight gender inequality we think that is obvious that we should do so.
First off we think gender inequality necessarily bars women from the economic sphere.
This has the intuitive bad harm making it so women are less able to access goods and services decreasing their quality of life, but it's also bad for men insofar as women have distinct ideas based on the lived experiences.
No one thinks of ideas in the vaccuum, as such we think that situations that are unique to women and social social socialization which only happens to women necessarily means that they will have different ideas they can contribute to the industry and as such having an equal pay or an equal access to education necessarily harms all people.
Secondly we think that women have the same or even better ability in a variety of jobs which are incredibly important moving into the future.
The socialization of women to be inherently more feminine actually appeals more to the service industry than masculinity typically does as such we think the whole of the economy will be better and have better services if women are given greater access to economic empowerment.
As such we should fight gender inequality.