We should abolish the american jobs act.
Quite simply, obama lied when he promised that there would be no increase in the deficit and that there would be no programs cut to pay for the american jobs act.
It wasn't a bald faced lie.
By providing massive incentives for employers to hire more employees and to give them bonuses, it didn't cost any up front capital from the american government.
However, the massive tax deductions that these companies were given inevitably harmed the american budget and the american bottom line.
This is been both incredibly costly and distorted a market which was already in recovery until this act was passed.
With that in mind, the motion is very simply that the american jobs act should immediately be repealed.
Our first argument in support of the motion is that the american jobs act is horribly costly.
By giving trillions of dollars in tax relief to companies which are struggling, all that the american government has done is increase the deficit for very little gain.
It inevitably caused programs to be cut.
Programs like food aid, welfare, food stamps and even healthcare costs, which inevitably harm the poorest individuals.
It is unclear why large corporations deserved to have the sort of tax credit, when it cost the poorest americans horribly.
Additionally though, it increased the deficit.
When you incur huge increases in your deficit it harms your standing in the global economy, makes it considerably more difficult to borrow money cheaply, and it inevitably is a debt that future citizens have to pay for.
It is unjust that present day americans are incurring huge increases in their bonuses or their job in order to have a, excuse me, which when it will inevitably cause future americans to have to pay off the money that was borrowed to have the american jobs act.
Our second argument is that the market solves.
And recognize that the vast majority of these jobs will be hollow.
If your job depends wholly on an act which gives your employer tax credits to continue, once the american jobs act ends, your job will go away.
Now, the harm of the job going away is non-unique.
If you repeal it now or repeal it later, these jobs will go away in either case.
However, the longer that we have these jobs in place is the longer that harms will be incurred upon the american economy.
First, innovation will be stifled.
In industries where innovation is needed and alternatives are needed, all that this job does is push prop those markets up when innovation and disruption is necessary.
This increased funding to police despite the fact that increasing increased training and increased digitalization is essential for policing in the twenty first century and essential for the prevention of police brutality.
Additionally though, the economy is in the best place to repeal the american jobs act.
It's unclear what will happen or how the economy will be when the american jobs act is scheduled to end.
What we know now is that the economy is on the upswing.
Individuals are hiring so individuals who lose their job now are likely to find a new job very quickly.
However if the american jobs act is slated to end when we are in a deficit, what will happen is that the economy will take an even greater hit.
Rather than creating a huge amount of hollow capital and hollow jobs, the american jobs act should be repealed.