The entire history of class relations has been one of exploitation and manipulation.
In the modern day, slum tourism represents the usage of poor communities, and poor bodies, as attractions for individuals in wealth.
They use these poor areas to both profit off of the decreased value of the money, decreased value of resources there, while also gawking at the individuals in those communities.
Because we believe that slum tourism is ethically repugnant, and has profound pragmatic harms, we would say that slum tourism should be prohibited in all states.
Two points of substantive, which support the motion.
First, slum tourism abuses local people.
When large sporting events or large international conferences are held in poor areas, crime increases massively.
The use and abuse of prostitution increases, and drug usage increases substantially as well.
This occurs on a far less profound, but just as pernicious scale, with slum tourism, when individuals enter poor areas and give money to individuals like drug dealers, private police officers, and otherwise support individuals who abuse local individuals.
Furthermore, prostitutes and other individuals are taken advantage of by wealthy individuals, because they because the allure of the money which these individuals have makes it impossible for local people to turn them down.
How can you turn down a wealthy westerner, when it would put your family at risk?
Because there is no consent in the situation, slum tourism represents a massive abuse of local individuals.
We would say that there is no right to go to these communities, and abuse these individuals, so in terms of moral claims, individuals with wealth are simply abusing people, who they've already harmed, through the expansion of global liberalism and global capitalism.
The same communities, in which the factories exists, the same communities which have been impoverished by the actions of wealthy people, are doubly harmed as a result of this sort of tourism.
The second substantive point we'd like to put forward is that this leads to a massive misallocation of resources.
Recognize, that in poor communities with large increases in slum tourism things like cops are put towards the wealthy individuals.
Individuals who live in the slums are not protected by the cops, but the wealthy people who bring money to the state, and wealthy individuals in that community have their resources misallocated, and poor people do not get protected.
Furthermore, things like school money and road money are put towards large aesthetic projects, and on main streets with numerous shops, while not going to people in poverty, who would otherwise need this to get to their job, but where building a road might not profit the government quite as much.
Finally, in the vast majority of these cases, public money is used by private entities, in order to promote tourism at the cost of social services.
Because of the expansion of money in politics, private individuals can internalize all of the benefits of slum tourism, while refusing to give the public this benefit, but also, well, imposing the costs upon the public.
Because we think this is a gross misallocation of money, and because we believe it is fundamentally unjust, we would prohibit slum tourism.
Thank you.