I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should legalize sex selection.
I think that my opponent's model is fairly fair.
When we're discussing sex selection, we must discuss it preconception.
This involves egg sorting, this involves basic genetic modification on behalf of the sperm and the egg.
Because we think that sex selection depends on technology which we think ought be totally banned, and because we think that sex selection has a profoundly harmful social effect, we would say that sex selection should not be legalized.
With that in mind, two arguments.
First, we think that sex selection sets a dangerous precedent, and second, we think that there will be harmful social effects due to sex selection.
First off, on the precedent sex selection sets.
The technology used to actually conduct sex selection is the same sort of technology we will see in the future were we to allow genetically modified babies.
If we allowed parents to choose the actual attributes of their child, and as such have this sort of designer baby, we think that this is a dangerous precedent to set.
Now, why don't we want to see a future in which there are designer babies?
First, we think that parents will inevitably change their child in such a way that they are expressing undue preference over that child.
We think as parents express further control over the biological attributes of their children, they're likely to find further disappointment as their children fail to actually cater to their whims and feel greater entitlement over the body of their child, as such, expressing biopower over their child, telling them where they can be and when they can be there, which we think is fundamentally oppressive on behalf of the parent.
Furthermore, we think that this will widen the gap between rich and poor.
We think that if poor individuals are anyone with bad teeth, anyone who doesn't have designer jeans, this will increase the stratification in our society.
This is incredibly problematic, as having a system where a certain class of people are genetically superior to another is what has led to countless atrocities throughout history.
Now, in the past, this has always been conjecture about whether a certain group is better than another, whether a certain group has better attributes than another.
However, in a future where there is truly designer people and people who don't have the money to afford to be designer, we think the stratification will become incredibly clear, as there will be a literal link to it through science.
The end result of this is an oppressive society where the the gap between rich and poor widens even further, and there begin to exist biological differences which will forever ensure that poor individuals cannot pull themselves out of poverty or otherwise join the wealthy classes.
Now my second argument is that the social effect of sex selection will be incredibly problematic.
Because my opponent does not limit this to the united states, we can discuss many developing states who would use sex selection in a problematic way.
For many couples in developing states, having a a boy is always the clear preference.
The reason why is because to have their daughter get married, they sometimes have to pay a dowry, many times the the son carries on the name and is the son's couple lives with the parents of the son, while the the daughter just simply moves away.
All these are benefits to having a son and furthermore, we'd say that a son typically can ascribes further social standing upon their parents compared to a daughter.
These are incredibly backwards ways of thinking, incredibly harmful to the family structure at large.
But we'd say that in these societies, these parents are far more likely to choose to have a son.
Now a major reason that why we see progressive goals and ideologies being adopted in developing states is because there is this balance between men and women, because women can demand a space in society.
However, if men expand and take up a much larger percentage of the total population, we'll likely see fewer progressive goals and less respect for women.
As such, we should not legalize sex selection.