We should subsidize ecotourism.
Ecotourism is an important tool which has been massively underutilized in the modern day.
As such, we would support increasing ecotourism, as it represents a direct cash transfer to local people and to conservation groups which protect important environments, but also intertwines the goals of conservation groups with the interests of the western world and industry.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that western states, that is to say, the united states, europe, any state with a high standard of living, should necessarily subsidize the transportation costs and vacationing costs of anyone who goes on an ecotourist retreat.
Ecotourist retreats are generally tours of nature, living near nature, and otherwise spending money on areas, while not harming those areas.
With that in mind, we have three arguments: first off, on local people.
We think that individuals who live in poverty, individuals who live near these pristine environments typically, necessarily do not deserve to have a worse quality of life than other individuals.
We think that they generally do given that: first, there are typically poachers, there are typically a variety of industries who attempt to take their land, secondly, because they are aware of the amenities of the western world and yet constantly denied of them due to a western control over media, and thirdly, simply because we think that local people, in living near pristine environments, have necessarily been barred from the from access to economic empowerment, because pristine environments are necessarily unavailable in areas which industry has controlled.
We would say that this is fundamentally unjust, but ecotourism rectifies this.
It allows tourists to go into the area and spend on the local people.
The food provided on ecotourist retreats, the individuals who lead tours and control the amenities will almost exclusively be local individuals as they have both the best knowledge of the area, which they can provide to clients, but also because they are the cheapest as they don't need to fly in every single night to provide ecotourists jobs.
As such, ecotourism will represent a direct cash transfer to these individuals, empowering them and allowing them to live a better quality of life.
Now my second argument is about conservation.
We think conservation is incredibly expensive.
It's really hard to track a variety of animals, particularly big game, and it's very difficult to protect them from industry and from poachers who can draw massive amounts of money from killing this big game.
As such, ecotourism will massively increase money that goes to these people.
Conservation groups are the ones which control the sanctuaries and control the areas which government has deemed important.
When individuals tour these areas, conservation groups can take a cut off the top, guaranteeing that they can pay for themselves without having to depend on the will of foreign individuals.
This will massively increase the amount of money going to them and guarantee that they can pay for individuals to protect these areas, which is incredibly important, as paying for local people to protect conservation areas means that their jobs are necessarily tied to the conservation of the area, increasing their support for conservation efforts as well.
My third argument is about long-term protection because ultimately, the greatest threats to animals is not poachers, but is industry.
By guaranteeing that areas of conservation have inherent economic value through ecotourism, there'll always be a strong incentive not to give it up to these sort of industries.
Industry is inherently fickle.
It can leave at any time if another area has lower prices or better technology.
The fact that ecotourism is permanent and the fact that the these eco areas will necessarily be permanent through protection will guarantee that they stay forever, ensuring that these animals are not killed.
As such, we should subsidize ecotourism.