We should further exploit green technology.
One of the greatest inventions and innovations which have occurred in the last few decades is green technology.
We have the capabilities to produce all of the goods which we use in the status quo with considerably less environmental impact.
We can change the technology that we use at all levels of production beginning with resource extraction all the way to the actual consumption of these goods through things like cars and other forms of dissemination of resources.
Quite simply, the implementation of green technology will save countless lives and save huge amounts of money in the long term.
With that this in mind, we would support the following model.
That countries around the world considerably increase their investments into green technology and mandate their uses where appropriate.
We would say that in cases like scrubbers on factories, these would be used every single time but we might not require every single car to be fueled by a hydrogen fuel cell as that can be in certain ways inaccessible.
We would generally say that a substantial increase in cost may not be justified but a comparable increase in cost to what currently occurs as individuals implement green technology in places where green technology is already being adopted by the market, it should be mandated by the government.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First on global warming.
Global warming represents an existential threat to humanity.
It is caused by the lack of usage of green technology.
The vast majority of carbon emissions which we see on a day to day basis come from cars, factories.
A variety of sources which we can solve through green technology are things like scrubbers on nuclear energy.
By implementing these kinds of green technology we will first reduce the amount of destruction we see in the status quo both to local areas and to the environment.
We see small fishing villages nations like tuvalu, already under water which we need to prevent an undue by implementing green technology.
Secondly, we see environments which were once precious and worshiped being destroyed due to global warming.
Things like the great barrier reef and a variety of important forests have largely been destroyed due to the lack of green technology.
Third and finally, if we don't solve global warming through green technology in the short term, we will ultimately see the existential destruction of humanity which we can all agree is a bad thing.
My second argument is about environmental cleanliness.
In the status quo, individuals we see the lack of green technology leads to huge amounts of smog, huge amounts of pollution, and generally unsafe conditions for a variety of individuals.
Implementing green technology can solve this and will have a few effects.
First, will decrease the total amount of asthma and other health harms.
We think this is in it in itself a good thing but additionally it will decrease the usage of hospitals and other limited medical resources, decreasing the cost for all individuals, and improving everyone's quality of life.
Which leads me to my third argument about energy security.
The fact that we rely on fossil fuels and resources which we do not produce in the state and which require massive amounts of imports and exports and just being moved around, is generally a problematic thing.
By increasing the total tax on mobility, by increasing the cost of moving resources around, we will generally lead to a states which are more self-reliant and will ultimately make it so states will have greater autonomy and sovereignty.
Although in certain cases, sovereignty is a bad thing like when a state is being corrupt.
When it allows states to exist without being under the thumb of large oil producing countries, we generally see this as a good thing.
Oddly enough, saudi arabia does not generally have the best interests of all of their neighbors in mind particularly when they can enforce and implement their own policy incentives to the harm of other states which depend on their oil.
For this reason, we should further exploit green technology.