I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should increase reforestation.
Now reforestation might be an intuitive good.
Many people think that more trees is always better but I really want to dissect what this motion is saying before I get on to the actual arguments I want to provide.
Recognize that we are increasing reforestation as a result of this policy.
We already see that in most states any logging company that cuts down a tree has to plant two trees in its place.
Ultimately, increasing reforestation be massive increase in the total amount of vegetation and leafy growth in forests around the world.
This is incredibly problematic for two reasons.
First is forest fires.
Forest fires are incredibly problematic because we think that as there is more vegetation, the chance of a forest fire increases.
Now what we see is in areas like california and oregon.
In the desert you don't get forest fires.
It's really hot, there are still some trees but the trees are on average about eight feet away from one another and as such, if one catches fire it's unlikely it'll spread to the next.
But go to a far less hot part of the country, go to northern oregon and you see that the trees are all packed together.
Even though it doesn't get incredibly hot, a single fire can spread throughout the entire forest destroying the entire forest as well as any neighboring cities.
This is incredibly problematic for a few reasons.
First we think increased vegetation means that the forest file fire will burn longer and be harder to put out for firefighters.
This first puts firefighters' lives at risk which we think is unacceptable.
There should not be a government policy which puts some of the bravest people in are society into harm's way.
But secondly, we think that this increases the total amount of smoke that you see in the cities around them.
This summer we saw that seattle had worse air quality in beijing.
A city that's known for giving people asthma, giving people birth defects due to the total amount of smog in the air.
We think a prolonged period of smog would lead to incredibly detrimental health effects.
The second big problem is just bigger forest fires.
As fires get bigger they can spread further.
Now instead of having localized fires in the northwest, you're likely to see fires spread farther east and all the way to the coast ultimately destroying the heavily populated cities that we see on the coast such as LA, san francisco and portland.
Ultimately, if we were to increase the total amount of reforestation, the result would be a considerably more harmed human populace in any area that has trees.
Now my opponent might counter this by saying that the environment is more important but we don't think it really is.
Reforestation is not the golden ticket to resolve global warming and as such, she can't claim the lives that she might try to protect as a result of reforestation.
But secondly, we think that this is just a form of false solvency.
To truly get rehabilitation of our environment we need to drastically reform how our capital system works and how corporations engage with the environment as a whole.
We need to put in fee structures in ways that we can penalize corporations for destroying natural areas.
Increase in the total amount of trees really is not a solution.
It just makes it so there's more forest fires and lumber companies can get a little bit more profit.
My second argument is about cost though.
We think that reforestation is will come at a very heavy cost insofar as we are already pushing reforestation to the extreme.
So were we to increase it we think that the additional dollars would go less far.
That is to say, if we want to increase reforestation we'll have to spend more money will have to ship even more seed.
We'll have to train even more people they'll have to take even more time to plant these trees.
This increases the cost of paper.
This increases the cost of all wooden goods and ultimately, is just bad for our economy.
For this reason, we should not increase reforestation.