Private universities should be banned.
It is illogical that rich institutions can levy their power over professors and the educational spirit writ large in a way that fundamentally ostracizes poor students.
Even when private institutions decide to give large scholarships, they are almost exclusively attended by the upper crust of society.
This leads to cycles of poverty and cycles of oppression which are fundamentally unacceptable.
With that in mind we would support the following model: that all private universities would be banned.
This comes in the form of large payments from the government going to every single institution, a limited endowment, currently large endowments like harvard and yale which are billions of dollars in size, a massive portion of it would be confiscated and redistributed among a variety of institutions, and third just generally more regulation particularly in regards to scholarship rather than education.
These universities will still have total academic freedom, however their funding mechanisms will be determined somewhat more by the government in order to ensure fairness among rich, poor, old, new institutions.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first off on the access to education, second on the fairness of education, and third on how this affects the employees of the institutions.
First on access: we believe that distributing this wealth leads to a cheaper form of education for many individuals.
If you were to take the billions of dollars that harvard and other ivy league schools have you'd be able to fund education for every student in america.
Rather than simply letting this money grow year after year after year only to be redistributed to wealthy professors and administrators, we believe that this would actually allow poor students to access education with considerably more frequency.
We believe this is good because education is a facilitative right.
We mean this in that if individuals are not educated they cannot meaningfully access the whole of their political or economic rights.
In the status quo, if I am poor, if I do not have a college education, it is very likely that I have to work a minimum wage job which does not provide me shelter, does not provide me meaningful months of food and makes we depend on welfare.
Furthermore, it is impossible for me to understand the implications of the political system or the economy, without some form of formal education.
As a result I am denied my political rights as well.
The government therefore has an obligation to ensure access for all individuals through the facilitative right of education.
My second argument is about fairness in education.
Rich institutions currently use massive amounts of resources that could otherwise be redistributed.
We don't just mean money in this case, but also professors.
Harvard gobbles up new young professors with good ideas and makes them teach their own classes and makes some research in the back of a library for decades upon decades, rather than allowing these professors to flourish and go to other institutions.
The names of these rich institutions and the massive amounts of money they have mean that poor institution simply cannot get their own effective professors or at least not the most effective professors possible.
This is incredibly problematic as this means that the wealthier institutions certainly have a better form of education.
We would also say, just better resources in terms of computers books and scholarships means that the richer institutions will always give a better education than the poorer institutions.
Tiered educational access is inherently problematic and tiered institutions are also problematic.
It means that poor individuals will receive a worse education, have less of a name to put behind their education, and generally have a worse life as a result.
We think that equalizing the system, even if it's just taking rich institutions and making them poor, equalizes the political economic and social spheres as well.
My third argument is about employees.
We believe the government is more accountable than these sort of institutions.
It is likely that you can empower grad students better if they can lobby the government rather than lobby a private institution which has incredibly few incentives to actually accommodate their demands.
As such you improve research in the united states and improve the lot for all individuals.
So proud to propose.