We should abolish eminent domain.
The ability for government to simply take property because it deems it a societal good is fundamentally unethical.
Each individual contracts some of their rights away to the government.
However, they do not contract away all of their property rights.
It would be unacceptable for the government to come in and say, " , yes, a politician wants your food, wants your clothing, and as such we are taking it.
We'll pay you what we think is the market price, but it's ours now. "
Governments have a massive asymmetry of power and it is essential that we do not further expand this by allowing unjust use of eminent domain.
Even in cases where eminent domain is seen as just, the myriad of alternatives available to politicians in the government make it fundamentally unethical for them to pursue this as a course of action.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that all governments which use eminent domain, which have the right to take away property and pay the market price for it, no longer have that ability.
They can ask for certain pieces of property.
They can request it beforehand.
However, they cannot simply take it away.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on government obligation.
As I said before, there is a massive asymmetry in power between an individual and the government.
They can jail you with almost no cause.
They can take away your property through civil asset forfeiture if they believe you have committed a crime.
They can sue your property, essentially taking it away, because they think your property was involved in a crime, even though you were not involved in that crime, and otherwise simply can enforce their will over you with incredibly little recourse on your part.
This means the usage of eminent domain is incredibly dangerous.
There's almost no oversight of government action as each politician is in no way individually blamed for the results of their laws, police officers are not blamed for their actions almost ever, and we think anytime a politician is blamed and voted out of office, it's very frequent that another politician of the same ideology comes to power instead.
As such, we must limit the total number of tools available for politicians to restrict individual liberty, and one of those is eminent domain.
By making sure that politicians cannot simply use their lack of planning as a reason to take away your property, we think that everyone will be happier and the balance of power between individual and government will be far more clear.
My second argument is about private planning.
Individuals have certain plans in regards to their property.
If I have a derelict house that I bought two years ago and I intend to renovate it, if the government comes in and pays me the market price, then they're not paying what I would get out of it given my own efforts.
We think it is essential for individuals to have faith in their own ability to plan as private people and in their ability to use their private property however they see fit.
By restricting the ability for individuals to plan on a private level, people lose faith in the government, lose faith in their own ability to engage in a free market, and otherwise are less likely to actually take risks and are more likely to simply let their money sit in banks where it cannot be utilized in any way.
My third and final argument is about price subjectivity.
It's impossible to simply say the market price for a house is x dollars.
If I have lived in a house my entire life, it's been passed down from generation to generation, that house may be priceless.
The only amount of money that would actually get me to move is in the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars.
We think this is an inherent part of our economy.
If every single person puts an incredibly high price on a good, that is the price of the good.
If certain people sell it cheaply and certain people sell at an expensive price, just simply buy it from the cheaper people.
If you are taking people's property away without paying them the price that they themselves request, you are not actually giving respect to their property and you are fundamentally restricting their ability to engage in a capitalist system.
For this reason, we should abolish eminent domain.