We should end the use of agricultural subsidies.
Agricultural subsidies are simply the american taxpayer paying so that individuals in other countries can pay less.
In a globalized world where we consistently compete for the lowest prices subsidies may seem good however, we compete for the lowest prices so that we can offer these goods the most efficient as possible.
If we artificially decrease that price, ultimately we're simply wasting money on other people's consumption.
With that in mind, I would propose the following model: that all US subsidies going to farms be removed, that we no longer subsidize corn or any other crop, and that the only subsidies that go to these individuals are ones which allow them to buy technology cheaper or otherwise allow them to install irrigation cheaper so that individuals in poverty can access them more easily rather than subsidizing individual crops.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, we are currently subsidizing foreign consumption.
Milton friedman once said that any country which exports a good that it subsidizes is charging its own citizens to export that good.
It is taxing individuals in the country to pay for foreign consumption.
The reason this is is that if I pay an extra five cents for every tomato that's grown, ultimately that decreases the price for all people.
If I buy tomatoes the total result will be that I really don't pay anything extra because I get that tax money off at the counter when I'm actually purchasing these goods.
However, if we ship these overseas I'm simply allowing someone in a foreign country to take my tax money for no real reason.
This is ultimately a terrible policy.
If another country can do it more cheaply that's great.
We can import their goods and we'll pay a similar amount as we pay now.
But we'd also be saving the tax dollars ultimately saving the american people a massive amount of money.
My second argument is that the amount of food that we produce in the status quo means that we waste incredible amounts as well.
There's only so much that we can export.
The vast majority of food that we produce is ultimately just thrown in the trash as it rots away and is never consumed.
This is endemic of a system which is massively overproducing.
In a capitalist system the major incentive to continue producing especially at a massive surplus are subsidies or massive amounts of profit.
It's clear that farmers are making far too much money despite the fact that a massive amount of their products aren't even being sold.
As such, we think that removing the subsidy will ultimately make it so individuals produce less and as a result we waste considerably less as well.
What we can do with this now is we can a, make it so we simply produce the correct amount which means that they'll be less global warming as we won't be overproducing which causes COTwo to go into the atmosphere, it means that we'll also use so much less effort picking foods, harvesting foods that ultimately will never be consumed.
The total amount of energy that we can save both in terms of global warming and in terms of individual hours worked will improve the US economy an incredible amount while also improving people's health.
My third and final argument is that farmers have undue political power.
The number of people in the US who are farmers numbers around two percent however, they have an incredible amount of power in terms of lobbying.
The reason why is first, these subsidies give them a huge amount of money that they can pump into politics but also these subsidies give them an impetus for investing a massive amount of money into politics to ensure that these subsidies continue to exist.
By getting rid of this rallying cry, by getting rid of this central organizing figure we get rid of a strong block of farmers who ultimately act undemocratically.
For this reason, we should end the use of agricultural subsidies.