We should abolish the electoral college.
The electoral college gives undue power to individuals who do not deserve it.
It is fundamentally undemocratic and has incredibly problematic effects on our policy.
With this in mind, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government should immediately stop using the electoral college for presidential elections.
Instead, they will simply use a direct vote system, where all votes are counted, and then the winner of the total number of votes becomes the president.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea: first, on the principles of democracy.
Democracy is about equal representation.
It guarantees that all individuals get at least some say in policy and the policy discourse, because they can vote on matters of federal policy.
Unfortunately, the electoral college provides certain individuals considerably more power than others.
Why is this the case?
First of the electoral college makes it so if you live in a rural area or an area with very few individuals, although you may not have as many electoral college seats, you still have more than the more power in comparison to the average person in a city.
This is fundamentally unjust because it says that people in rural or less populated areas somehow deserve more democratic say and power than individuals in highly populated areas.
Second reason why this is problematic is because the electoral college includes individuals who are not bound by the votes of individuals in their state or the state that they are representing.
This is problematic because it says that certain individuals deserve just as much power as hundreds of thousands of americans combined who are all aggregated under other electoral college seats.
We believe this is this distorts democracy and fundamentally undermines the ability for our country to maintain its legitimacy and has incredibly problematic practical effects, as I will discuss in my second argument.
Many individuals claim that the purpose of democracy ought not be to give everyone a say but rather to maximize good outcomes.
However, the only way in which we can understand good is through the common understanding of our world.
The will of the populace must be reflected in our morality because the good is idiosyncratic.
All individuals come together to determine a collective understanding of the good and pass that understanding on to the government.
Someone does not deserve increased moral weight simply because they live hundreds of miles from their neighbor.
In fact, the opposite would likely be a better system given that these individuals are the less least likely to understand the collective understanding of the good and the least likely to engage with other people to understand what they need to survive.
My second argument is about the practical effects of removing the electoral college.
First, we believe that you'll get better policy overall.
If politicians are not worried about winning certain votes in certain underrepresented districts but rather more interested in winning the popular vote, they will campaign in more areas which would otherwise be seen as simply blue or red, because they can win marginal votes there, but additionally, they will pass policies which are good for the majority of americans rather than just good for the majority of land mass in america.
Secondly, though, we believe that this will decrease controversy.
It's less likely that you'll have partisan effects on the judiciary when the supreme court and other judicial bodies do not have to rule on political outcomes and elections.
We saw this in when george w bush was elected, when the supreme court had to decide whether he would become president.
This was a the beginning of a great schism in in our country based on partisan lines.
But finally, we think that this will increase the mandate to rule because rather than depending on certain areas to rule, you'll just depend on the will of the people.
For this reason, we should abolish the electoral college.