We should privatize the military.
If there's one thing that government bureaucrats are not very good at doing, it is managing workers who have no experience with government.
We think that the government's control of the military, from its organization to its everyday expenses, is fundamentally inefficient.
The only way in which we can empower our military as best as possible, while keeping costs as low as possible, is by privatizing the military.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that congress is still the only actor who can still declare wars but in terms of the organization, the hiring, the deployment of particular troops, this will fall on private organizations.
We think that these private organizations will engage in all sorts of military activity, they can only take combat operations under the aegis of the united states military, and if they act independently, they will be immediately disbarred.
There'll be considerable amounts of regulation to guarantee that these private military corporations do not act independently or without government consent.
My first argument is about the benefits of competition.
Now, there are some private military contractors in the status quo, but there are not enough firms to create a free market and allow for amounts of competition that would really be productive.
We think that privatizing the entire military is far more likely to create the kind of competition that free markets benefit off of.
The benefits of this competition are a fewfold.
First, we think that you're likely to get better-trained soldiers and better-organized militias.
This is because the individual firms are far better at managing long-term employment.
Although the united states military can pay a lot of money to certain people, they're not very good at hospitality or doing things any differently than they've done in the past.
New firms can innovate.
They can have four oh one k matching.
They can guarantee that soldiers stay longer and have better training in order to get contracts far more efficiently.
Second, though, we think that these firms will always be contract-driven.
This means that they will only take operations based on what the government has defined.
Unlike the united states military who can: one, fail to do their goal, or two, simply take operations because they think it is abstractly necessary, these firms will always be driven by the US military and will always be driven to beneficial ends.
Finally, we think that through competition we can get fast mobilization.
You can always hire the firm which has the most boots on the ground now and can always respond the fastest.
This allows for the prevention of long-term atrocities, and ultimately empowers united states military to act far more efficiently.
My second argument is about local benefits.
Private firms are far more likely to have a good relationship with locals.
The reason why is, first, they're not the US military, they're not flying under a flag of imperialism that many people have hated for their entire lives, but also because they can hire people from different governments far more effectively.
While the united states military will face far more flack for hiring foreign nationals, private militaries can hire them efficiently, creating local interpreters, local guides to guarantee that hearts and minds are one, ultimately diminishing the power of terror in our world.
My third and final argument is about the political effects of a private military.
We think the private militaries are far more accountable.
If there's an atrocity taken by the united states military, you may be able to harm a private or two but you're not going to change the major organizational structure.
However, when you privatize the military, you can destroy particular firms that have taken horrific atrocities against local civilians.
You can fine them billions of dollars to guarantee they never do it again.
Ultimately, we think that there these firms will be far more accountable to the united states people compared to the united states military were we to privatize the military.
For this reason, we should privatize the military.