Community service should be mandatory.
In the status quo, individuals do far less community service than would necessarily be best for the average community.
When all individuals come together to contribute to a common cause, incredible things can happen.
Unfortunately, there is always a collective action problem on community service.
When you aren't paid, there's always an incentive to things like improve yourself or necessarily earn more money rather than engage in community service.
We think that is it is unfair to make it so the altruistic individuals in our society are the only ones who have to give up their time and energy to create community service.
But furthermore, we think if there was largely more community service, although each individual would be sacrificing more, every person would be getting a greater benefit through this community service, which would offset any harms and improve everyone's well-being, solving this collective action problem.
With that in mind, we would support the following model: that the united states introduce a mandatory system of community service, that all individuals had would have to serve two years in nonprofit organizations which promote the well-being of entire societies.
We believe that these services shouldn't be things like the military unless it is the army corps of engineers or another agency which necessarily supports domestic well-being and domestic development.
With that in mind, I have two arguments to prove why community service should be mandatory.
First is capital development.
We think that individuals can necessarily improve their human capital, necessarily improve themselves, through community service.
Why is this the case?
Many individuals, as soon as they get out of college, cannot find a job.
This is because they do not have marketable skills, have not engaged in a business relationship before, or otherwise are unaware of the ways of the real world.
Introducing this policy would be good at increasing human development for a few reasons.
First, it would teach individuals skills that they did not have before.
Community service largely uses the same skills as the private industry.
It uses skills like communication, planning, complex problem solving, and other tools which are very useful in the private sphere.
We believe that enforcing all individuals to go into community service, to spend two years of their time actually working with nonprofits, will guarantee that they can actually improve their own development and contribute more to the private sphere as well.
Guaranteeing that they are paid through a government subsidy in the same way as we'd pay someone in the military also guarantees that they can improve their community, while also getting enough money to afford their post-college life.
Secondly, though, we think that this will improve human capital simply because individuals will have a better respect for their community and a greater respect of how the real world works.
Having to meet deadlines, having to work with other individuals regularly will ensure that they can work in the private sphere as well, improving their lot in life.
The second way that we can prove capital development is by improving land.
We think that improving communities writ large will stop things like gentrification, given that if we approve every single community at the price of no individual community will actually go up.
This means that individuals will have higher quality homes, higher quality well-being, without the regular effective community service which would necessarily increase the price of a community, which would push individuals out.
Improving all communities at once means that no community increases in its price, because the supply of good housing will increase in all areas, guaranteeing that people won't have to move to find this good housing.
The second way the second argument for why community service should be mandatory is because of community engagement.
We think as individuals engage more with a community, engage more in the civic process, they will feel more connected to their government and to their community.
As such, they'll be more charitable, be more happy, and largely care more about government action, guaranteeing that the democratic process is upheld and that people's will is reflected in our policy.
As such, community service should be mandatory.