We should prohibit reality television.
Anyone who has seen a show like the bachelor or survivor understands that reality television is the lowest form of entertainment.
It depends on incredibly harmful stereotypes and putting contestants in situations which they're necessarily not comfortable with to entertain a largely immature and uninteresting audience.
Because reality television is so inherently problematic we would support the following model: that reality television be outright banned.
That all unscripted television which is not talk shows which depends on a weekly format where individuals compete, necessarily be removed.
Although many individuals gain enjoyment from the sort of shows, we would largely say that the harms to contestants and harms to society will never outweigh, excuse me will always outweigh any marginal benefits that individuals gain from this sort of entertainment.
Because individuals always have the option to go to other shows, will always be able to watch scripted television instead, the ultimate harm of banning reality television is incredibly small.
Furthermore, we think that prohibiting reality television will be incredibly easy given that states have largely, have large control over the dissemination of information and can ban shows to incredibly easy effect.
No one really has bootleg cable.
Maybe you'll download shows from other states but we think that decreasing the total incidents of the harms of reality television will still be fine, even if we don't have perfect implementation.
Now my first argument is how reality television harms contestants.
Recognize that in many situations individuals do not consent to the harms against them.
It is impossible to understand the effects of being smacked in the face with a watermelon, attempting to live without food and water for days on end, to being scared around every single corner, simply by text on a contract.
We believe that contracts can only be just and only be valid if individuals truly have a symmetry of information.
This can never occur as directors have a clear incentive to misinform contestants because they want genuine reactions to what will happen to them.
As such contestants will never have enough information to actually consent to certain actions.
The second way that these individuals are harmed is through the duress caused by the show.
First we think that there is physical duress as a result of reality television.
Shows like fear factor forced to eat bugs, throw horrific things on you and make you generally suffer to the entertainment of their audience.
Shows like survivor make you go through a grueling tests, shows like amazing race have resulted in broken bones and broken hearts, which gets into the second form duress, -at of mental duress.
Drama is a major driving factor of reality television.
Individuals are put into compromising situations because people want to see genuine reaction to true betrayal.
We think the psychological effects of this betrayal does not justify individuals entertainment and as such it should be banned.
The second reason why we should prohibit reality television is that it harms society.
Recognize that reality television largely depends on stereotypes to push its goals.
When you have an asian contestant, they portray them as good at math or conniving simply because the average individual in society holds subconscious racist views that they want confirmed through reality television.
This means that individuals of all races are problematized.
Women are objectified, asian individuals are seen as conniving, black individuals are labeled in ways that are fundamentally oppressive and largely have nothing to do with their intelligence, which we think is incredibly problematic.
We think that fighting stereotypes necessarily must be a goal of every government and must as such be reflected in our entertainment.
Any entertainment which pushes problematic stereotypes should be outright banned which this policy does.
With that mind, we should prohibit reality television.