I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban flag burning.
Flag burning is an essential part of free speech.
It is the ability to articulate distaste with the whole of a nation.
There are few ways to clearly articulate this besides lecturing for hours on end or simply burning the flag, burning the symbol of the nation to show you truly oppose the doctrines and policies within that nation.
One overview before three arguments, first, look at the arguments made by will and look at the model that will introduces.
He runs from the debate from the outset.
When he tells you that we'll only introduce a one hundred dollar fine, we won't do anything as terrible as putting people in jail, he first concedes that this is probably not a good idea, we ought take the most minimalistic approach possible.
But secondly, he adopts a policy which could harm people just as much as jail.
We think people in poverty, we think people who are literally struggling to get a meal on the table, losing a hundred dollars represents losing the month's rent, being put on the street, being unable to feed yourself or your children.
The idea that this particular policy is okay just because it doesn't do much harm first, concedes that flag burning probably doesn't deserve much defense, but secondly, still actualizes profound harms against the worst off in society and as such must be understood that way.
Three arguments for why we should allow flag burning.
First off, speech has inherent value.
It does not matter what is being said.
It does not matter the purpose of what is being said.
We think when government takes action and defines what is or is not acceptable speech, it it will inevitably descend into fascism.
Although we think that there are certain things that ought not be said or ought not be done when the government takes action to ban those things, when it regulates them, it says that certain groups are more important than others.
It says that the individuals who are in the vanguard of the state are more important than the people who protest the state.
It largely says that the conservative and silent element of the state who gets to sit on a throne of power is more important than the people who fight day in and day out to change their lot in life and change the current conditions of the government.
Because we think speech has inherent value and the government taking a step by defining speech will inevitably lead to unjust policies being taken in other cases, we would say that you should allow flag burning.
But honestly, this act of speech alone has value in and of itself.
Which is my second argument, the value of critique.
The ability to critique an entire nation is important.
Without meaningful critique the US would not have pulled out of vietnam in the time it did.
It would not it was would have continued to have segregation in the united states and adopt even more racist policies than exist today.
The idea that this has a profound personal effect on people and as such should be defended is the entire reason it's banned.
Telling people that the state itself as an apparatus has adopted unjust policies draws the eye, draws attention, introduces a discourse.
We think it is important for this discourse to exist to challenge unjust policies but we'd also say the very arguments will makes about why this is an important symbol are why it must be allowed.
By creating an important and active discourse what occurs is the best policy making possible and the greatest fights against oppression.
The third argument is safety.
We would say that if you burn a flag and then are assaulted you ought be able to go to the police.
However, the continued or the fact that they'll be a any fine attached to flag burning suggests that people won't go to the police because they don't go through a court battle or don't want to admit doing an illegal action.
It is unlikely that people will stop burning flags as they still want to push this message of critique but they are less likely do it in public spaces so they will be less efficacious and second have no recourse if they are harmed due to burning a flag.
Because we think that we ought prefer the victims of the assault over the perpetrators of the assault, because we think they deserve safety and the value of speech we would say that we should not ban flag burning.