We should support a phase out of lightweight bags.
In many shopping centers when you buy something, when you need to get your products out of the store you are provided with disposable bags usually plastic to carry it to your car and then carry it into your house but for many people they already own reusable plastic bags.
They already own a variety of tools which will make it so these plastic bags are really just not useful at all.
Because of this we think that it is essential that the government steps in actually forces individuals to use their reusable bags.
The amount of waste that's been created due to reusable bags particularly because people don't reuse them is unacceptable.
If individuals were to reuse their plastic bags on a consistent basis, we think that the result would ultimately be that there'd be far less waste in our ocean and far less global warming.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that the united states starts taxing plastic bags at a very very high rate.
Ultimately moving towards a system where it becomes prohibitively expensive and when very few places even offer plastic bags even for money, even for a dollar per bag, that's when we ban it.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First, these plastic bags kill animals.
For a sea turtle trying to find its meal it's incredibly difficult to tell the difference between a plastic bag floating in the ocean and a jellyfish which would make a nutritious meal.
The result is that inevitably, a turtle will eat these plastic bags.
If it's incredibly lucky it's possible to eat and pass it but it's still will likely cause damage to their digestive system and their entire body.
But in most cases they choke on these plastic bags, it gets into their system and as a result they die.
This is just sea turtles though.
We think that whale, sharks, a variety of different animals eat plastic bags and then die.
This is fundamentally unacceptable.
Even if all of these animals were plentiful, it would still be unacceptable to essentially choke animals for a minor increase in convenience for people.
To make it so that people aren't punished at all for when they forget their reusable plastic bags.
But in other cases we see that a lot of these animals are endangered.
The vast majority of tortoises and turtles are endangered and when they eat these plastic bags more of them die.
As a result, we think that we have an ethical obligation to stop using these plastic bags.
The suffering they cause to intelligent and rare animals means that we are being incredibly greedy, incredibly self-centered by pushing for the use of these plastic bags.
My second argument is that it pollutes oceans.
There's a trash island the size of a small country in the middle of the atlantic.
The fact that we continue to increase its size, the fact we continue to put plastic bags into our ocean ultimately means that this will continue to grow.
It'll wipe out reefs.
It'll wipe out any local animals and is ultimately going to pollute our oceans such that we have far less flora and fauna.
As the ocean changes in temperature, as it changes and its makeup the total temperature is likely to rise and as the ocean temperature rises carbon dioxide will be pushed out of the ocean which massively increases global warming.
We think this is an existential threat to humanity and so we must act as soon as possible.
My third and final argument is that plastic bags are resource intensive.
The amount of oil that we spend on plastic bags is incredibly harmful.
Although each individual plastic bag might be negligible, the total amount that we produce per year means that global warming increases by a lot, the price of resources also increases, other plastic goods increase as their input resources become more rare and higher in demand.
For this reason, we should support a phase out of lightweight plastic bags.