We should increase government regulation.
Government regulation is neither inherently good nor inherently bad.
We must operate under an assumption that the general piece of policy from the government will be good if there's too little regulation and bad if there's too much regulation.
We think that this is largely true on an average, aggregate level and as such, I will make the case that we have too little regulation in the status quo, that we assume that markets are too effective in regulating individual action, and that we have allowed large organizations to run amok in oppressing and otherwise harming the entirety of our society.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that markets and groups be massively regulated, essentially a substantial increase in all western liberal democracies for large groups, but not individuals.
We think that changing major structures and regulating major structures is important but regulating individual action is less so.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea.
First, there externalities literally everywhere.
Talking primarily about the economy here, we think that the free market is a unicorn.
It's a myth.
It really does not exist.
For free markets to exist in economic sense, they must they must meet four criteria.
First, there must be free entry and exit into the market.
We see that this is largely untrue in most markets as there is substantial upfront costs, there's substantial barriers to entry from other individuals and from other actors who prevent firms from joining the market in the first place.
Secondly, the good must be identical.
We think that this is almost never true.
Even in the global oil market, there're transaction costs and transportation costs based on where you buy oil from.
That's taking the most based basic material that has literally no difference, depending on the brand, but can change based on the individual buying it and their opinions of those selling it.
Venturing to technological goods, manufactured goods, there literally is not a free market that exists.
We also think there must be low cost to enter and low transaction costs, both of which are largely untrue in our modern day.
As such, all of these non-free markets can use regulation.
There must be a limit to how much marketing can be done.
There must be a breaking up of monopolies which have been allowed to flourish in our current administration.
By challenging these externalities, we increase consumer choice.
Increasing consumer choice increases consumer well-being.
We think that individuals are the best understanding have the best understanding of their own personal good and are far more likely to self-actualize if they have greater options by regulating non-free markets.
But even in free markets, we still see massive externalities.
The environment is largely not factored into price.
The areas that are destroyed based on extraction are large enough to the price people pay and as such, the government must step in to increase taxes to regulate these kinds of markets and guarantee that externalities are not able to flourish in a world where individuals do not understand or pay the price in terms of the harm that they cause to the world.
Now my second argument is about the government's role in regulation in general.
We think that they are the most powerful actor that exists in any given area.
The only actor more powerful than individual governments are other governments or companies backed up by large governments.
As such, we think big organizations are generally not responsive to individual action.
There's no reason to respond to the individual or even to respond to protests, which can cause much more harm to the organization in the long term.
The only way that the government can step in, the only way that they can allow things to change, is if they take an active role in changing the way that we view these things.
Even if we allow the free market to operate, even if we allow individuals to operate freely, we think there's considerable misinformation, and the government is the only one who can go around it and generally oppose it.
For this reason, we should increase government regulation.