I stand in firm opposition to the motion, criticism of the BBC is exaggerated.
The british broadcasting corporation is one of the largest media organizations on earth.
Day in and day out, their news has a meaningful impact on the world.
This is not necessarily because they've earned this position, but their news is consumed by so many people that any time they have a report, it will affect people's opinions, it will affect how people live their lives, and ultimately, it will affect the political systems which control many parts of our day-to-day existence.
However, we think they have fundamentally failed to uphold their obligation to fair and impartial journalism.
With that in mind, I have three arguments for why criticism of the BBC is justified.
First, we think there're endemic problems of media the BBC falls victim to.
Media, in this day and age, is primarily about advertising and ad revenue.
The more clicks you get, the more eyes you get, the more power you have.
The more power you have, the more money you can get from individuals who want to advertise their products on your end.
We think that the british broadcasting corporation is somewhat captured by the corporations which pay much of their dues, captured by the very powerful individuals who employ them, who pay them, who ultimately define their agenda.
These endemic problems mean that criticism of the BBC is not just justified but required to have an impartial and meaningful understanding of news.
We think that the BBC is actually worse than many other organizations in this regard.
Because they have so much power, because they have so much viewership, they're able to bend the truth however they see fit.
They are able to control the narrative in such a way that is inherently problematic.
Criticism of the BBC, then, is necessary, given the fact that individuals must take everything they say with a grain of salt.
Even if the criticism is not perfectly accurate, if individuals have a healthy skepticism, we think it will always make their understanding of news and their application of news information far preferable to than the alternative.
My second argument is that the BBC is unrepresentative and incredibly western-centric.
Britain as a whole, throughout history, has been an imperial state.
It has controlled other countries in an incredibly problematic way.
The BBC is, in many ways, using this kind of ideology and this mindset to push its views.
In many cases, there've been accusations that the BBC is anti-indian, anti-hindu, anti-sikh, the same cultures that, in many cases, britain itself was racist to, controlled, and otherwise had under its control with military power.
We think the BBC must be criticized in a way that makes sure that they become more diverse and actually represent more viewpoints.
The only way to have effective news is to have news that's representative, that understands multiple points of views and actually applies them in an effective way.
By third argument is forced impartiality.
The BBC constantly tries to be impartial but on many issues, that's just not a good idea.
Being impartial on global warming, bringing in a global warming denier and a global warming supporter means you can't have an effective understanding of how we can actually tackle climate change.
When ninety nine point nine percent of the population agrees on something, you don't need to have this forced impartiality, but the BBC does it, time and time again.
We think this creates a false perception of the issues.
When people see the BBC giving equal air time to an anti-vaxxer and a pro-vaxxer, we think the result is that people have a skepticism of important things that ultimately lead to health problems for all people, dangerous political situations, ultimately a degradation of human relationships.
For this reason, criticism of the BBC is justified.