I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban extreme sports.
One overview before I get into my three arguments.
First we think that regulation is possible.
It currently exists in a variety of sports.
Snowboarding requires a certain permit to go on the harder slopes.
Base jumping requires permits to prepare and also to get the equipment to even do base jumping.
Secondly we would say that no kids are targeted by extreme sports.
Yes things like the x games might draw more kids in but we would say that first there's no way you could ever ban those kinds of sports as I'll discuss later, but secondly taking a no nuance approach to policy making probably isn't the best way to solve the regulation issue.
Adopting a more nuanced approach where we ban certain action or certain individuals from doing extreme sports is far more efficacious and far better for individuals as well.
Three arguments.
First that is unjust paternalism.
For paternalism to be just it must meet three standards.
It must be a consistent standard among all actions in a certain realm.
Secondly it must be something that individuals cannot internalize the risk of and third it must be efficacious.
First we think this is a double standard.
Will brings up football where there is plenty of regulation and yet people get concussions and become permanently disabled all of the time.
Extreme sports overall are far safer as there is much more equipment that actually stops you from being harmed.
But also because there is that regulation which exists we would say any standard which bans extreme sports but not football is unjust and as such because the government has decided to support football cannot be adopted.
Secondly though we'd say that people can decide what is good for them.
They understand the risk of the activity.
That's why they buy goods to protect themselves a huge amount of the time.
That's why they have to get licensed.
That's when there's a huge amount of literature which they can access to understand the risk that they are taking.
If will would like like to ban everything where there's a small risk and where humans can't completely understand the risks humans couldn't drive humans couldn't play even simple sports.
Because we think this is an unjust action would say once again this is unjust paternalism.
But the third and final standard which essentially destroys the entire case is that there's no efficacy to this action.
First we don't think that people will actually listen.
You can probably still buy a parachute for base jumping regardless of what you want to do.
We'd say that people who aren't doing extreme snowboarding will simply go off sharper more jagged cliffs.
This also leads to the more pernicious problem of people simply taking actions into their own hands.
When you remove the regulation which currently exists and replace it with a ban more individuals can access these sort of things without being reported by other people.
As such we think more children will look to extreme sports because this they'll less likely be stopped by other individuals who don't want to go to jail but also they'll find alternatives.
They'll turn simple bike riding into crazy tricks.
If you try to stop trying to sell the bikes designed for tricks they'll use less safe bikes which aren't designed for tricks and they'll likely collapse as they try to do things like flips and wheelies.
This leads to more danger and more death over all.
The second argument is that this removes the incentive for national protection.
We actually think that extreme sports have led to huge amounts of environmental protection in the status quo.
Snowboarders skiers have defended mountains which would otherwise be developed on.
Base jumpers have defended forests.
If you remove all extreme sports you remove a major incentive in our society to defend our natural resources which we think will lead to a worse quality of life for all of humanity.
Third and finally we think that extreme sports create spill over tech which is important.
As base jumpers get better with their parachutes invest more money into parachute companies they can use those parachutes for things like the military or individuals who would need them when their plane stops working.
As we learn more about GPSs and the technology to save people on mountains we also allow people who just live in more tundra based areas to be saved as well.
The spillover text save huge numbers of lives and even if you accept everything that will says the innocent lives we save through spillover technology are enough to justify allowing extreme sports to continue.
Thank you