We should introduce carbon taxes.
In the status quo, corporations can get away with harming their environment, with while spending no additional cost, even though they're putting many lives at risk.
Because we believe this is fundamentally unjust, we would support the following model: that there be a per ton tax on carbon output.
This would be taxed on all products produced in the united states as well as all imports to the united states.
We believe that small corporations can have their environmental impact report subsidized by the government, but large corporations will have to do their own research and guarantee that they get an accurate report regarding their production of carbon.
There are three arguments for why this is an incredible idea.
First is on global warming.
The primary contributor to global warming is carbon.
The primary creator of carbon are corporations, that's income through industrial development or through agricultural development.
Either way, carbon is being produced by the ton and on a daily basis.
This is incredibly unfortunate because as carbon enters the atmosphere, it necessarily allows sun through the atmosphere, but traps the rays within the earth, increasing global temperatures by a massive amount.
We believe that this can be improved by introducing a carbon tax.
The fundamental theory of taxation is that taxing a particular action disincentivizes it.
Because there are alternatives to producing mass amounts of carbon, things like scrubbers for industrial production and renewable energy for the creation of energy, we believe that global warming can be solved if we introduce an economic incentive to fight against it.
Global warming is essential to fight, both because it represents an existential threat to all of humanity.
As the ice caps melt, as environments are destroyed, individuals will find less food, less resources, and be wrought with a refugee crisis unparalleled in the modern day as individuals are pushed out of all states which cannot get water or food.
This necessarily creates this existential threat, which can be solved through a substantial action like a carbon tax.
The second way global warming is problematic is because global warming is destroying small villages now, small fishing villages in particular, because as ocean levels rise, individuals are pushed out of their homes because they're necessarily under water.
We believe that introducing a carbon tax will improve with this both because of the initial policy, which will decrease the amount of carbon going into the atmosphere, but also because it will create a political impetus for greater environmental policies into the future.
Now my second argument is about environment quality.
Carbon is a massive contributor to things like smog and are produced alongside other very dangerous chemicals.
If we introduce a carbon tax, we would guarantee that areas with high levels of production are not fraught with environmental destruction.
This would protect huge numbers of animals, who are currently dying because of things like toxic air.
It would also decrease the incidence of asthma, which we think has caused huge amounts of economic loss and decreased the quality of life for any individuals, and would also improve our water quality allowing for greater utilization of resources from the ocean, like fish, coral and other minerals found therein.
My third argument is about the market effect of this kind of tax.
First, we think it'll create more long-term jobs.
Unfortunately, the the sort of jobs that get things like coal and oil in the status quo are necessarily short term.
This is both because we think that there'll be a general shift to renewable energy into the future, which we must not necessarily prepare for now, but also because many individuals who go into this industry, don't stay there for long because producing coal or oil is horrific for your health.
By creating renewable energy jobs, we believe that individuals will have a job far into the future and will necessarily live a happier and healthier life.
As such, we should introduce carbon taxes.