I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban spanking.
Spanking is an essential tool in the toolbox to ensure that children are disciplined and to provide parents with a tool when all other alternatives have failed.
Quite simply, making spanking illegal will make the lives of parents worse and when it is enforced will also make the lives of children far far worse.
With that I have two arguments.
First, how banning spanking will be bad for the child and second, how it's the best form of severe punishment.
Now when we are banning something and passing out punishment, we must address the results of that kind of punishment.
Much when we ban child abuse, when we charge people with child abuse it's with the understanding that when the parents have been reprimanded, when the child is removed from the home the child will be in a far better situation.
Quite simply, if a parent decides to spank a child and there is no other form of abuse which can be documented or charged by the state, taking the child out of that home, putting them in foster care, or simply just charging the parent for thousands of dollars, will hurt the child in numerous ways.
First, addressing fines and other smaller punishments.
When a parent spends time in jail or is fined a huge amount of money, that is money that ultimately comes out of the pocket of the child as well.
The parent is unable to pay for summer camps, daycare, could lose their job because child abuse is now on their record.
This is awful for the child given that the child's less likely to receive affective care from the parent if they're in jail or otherwise have to spend more time at work getting the money.
Second, they're likely to feel some of the brunt of this fine as the parents can't afford things like summer camp or can't afford even to put food on the table and third and finally, we would say that it is awful for the child in so far as the parent could very well resent them after they've been put in jail or otherwise had their life ruined due to a child abuse charge.
Now if the it goes so far the child is taken out of the home, we would say that the foster care system is so much worse than anything such as spanking or on honestly any alternative.
The foster care system must be a last resort.
I want to clarify with this argument that if a child has other abuse in the household, if they're already being punched, smacked, or having food taken away from them, then there is a meaningful claim to child abuse which currently exists.
Adding this on top of it makes no meaningful change.
All that banning spanking does is change those edge cases in which parents want to discipline their child but are not abusing their child and ultimately hurts the parent and child in unjustifiable ways.
My second argument is that this is the best form of severe punishment.
It's not healthy for the child to take their food away.
There's only so much you can do with taking away their friends, taking away their devices.
If a child continues to sneak out after you have told them they can't leave, if they continue to access technology by going to friends houses, or by finding you're hiding places and you can't take away their privileges therein.
At that point, spanking is the only option left.
Quite simply, the fact that you deter parents from spanking is on face bad.
Parents ought to have this tool in the toolbox.
They ought ought to be able to hold this over the child because the child understands that if they go so far that they deserve spanking, that they essentially cannot go that far.
Taking this away from parents makes it so parents have no last resort.
If they decide to spank their child they'll go to jail but honestly all other long term punishments are are ultimately unenforceable in a huge number of cases.
This leaves parents high and dry and ultimately makes worse children overall.
For this reason, so proud to oppose.