I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should limit judicial review.
Judicial review is the ability for courts in the united states to review laws passed by congress and evaluate their constitutionality.
It provides the supreme court, the most powerful court in the land, the ability to say whether any law, any decision is constitutional or not, changes the fundamental framework of how our law works, and it ultimately allows for us to have consistency in law.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first is about progressive changes.
The vast majority of progressive changes in the united states, at least the most important ones, have come from the supreme court interpreting constitutionality.
For instance, the end of segregation did not come because a law was passed providing individuals the requirement to serve both black and white patrons.
Segregation ended because the supreme court of the united states found that segregation denied people of color their capacity to travel, their capacity to do commerce in other states, and their capacity to simply be respected under our set of laws.
The decision made by the supreme court was that by having segregation and by having whole areas, neighborhoods, provinces that just did not have businesses, hotels, or other services for people of color, people of color were essentially forced to not travel as often.
They could not go where they wanted to go, they could not spend money where they want to spend, because there was the risk that they would have no ability to get gas to get a hotel or to get anything else and, as a result, this was unfair and unconstitutional.
We saw that the end of abortion prohibition in the united states or, at least, the beginning of the end of it, roe v wade, also came from the supreme court.
Each of these, some of the most progressive and important laws passed in the last hundred years, came from this court.
We think that limiting judicial review, restricting the court's capacity to make decisions based on constitutionality would ultimately mean that these policies would never be passed.
This is incredibly problematic.
It's very clear that segregation was a horrible thing, but the congress of the united states was unwilling to do anything about it.
There are checks in place so that laws that try to be passed in congress can be filibustered indefinitely unless you have a massive majority in both houses of congress.
The supreme court is not like this.
Honestly, as long as you have a small majority, you have the power to change these sorts of laws, but it's very clear that if we only allow the supreme court to act in the most egregious of circumstances, segregation would not have ended.
The decision that it's an economic right rather than simply a human right came from the supreme court, but they would not have that ability if they their powers were greatly limited.
My second argument is about the consistency of law and constitutionality.
The constitution is the basis by which we determine our laws, the basis by which we have enforcement, legislation, essentially the entire infrastructure for our government comes from the constitution.
The only way that individuals can interpret what the government is doing and predict what it will do in the future, so as to act efficiently, is to have the constitution be a consistent document, where decisions are frequently made by these judges to uphold its standards.
By limiting the capacity to do judicial review, we think the result is one in which the constitution is constantly changing, the basis of law is constantly changing and, as such, individuals have no ability to predict what the government will do.
For this reason, we should not limit judicial review.