I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt slow food.
As my opponent says, slow food is a movement in which we prioritize slower cooking, slower eating and the collection of locally sourced goods.
Ultimately, we just don't think this is accessible for a huge portion of the population.
If what my opponent says is correct that fast food is less healthy, that fast food has problems, we don't think people are idiots.
They choose it for a reason.
Any system in which we abolish fast food in favor of slow food is one in which we ignore the autonomy of individuals, in which we truly deny individuals the capacity to actually be able to define what they want to eat which we think is a basic prerequisites to controlling their very lives.
With that mind, my first argument is choice.
Why do people choose fast food time and time again if slow food is an option?
We don't think the reason is cultural.
There's not really a huge push for fast food as the preferred meal of choice.
A lot of the times people are already shamed for eating fast food which is completely unfair.
We think a major reason that people eat fast food is they are poor, they want fast calories, and ultimately this is a way for them to get to work or school or the job far more easily.
Even people who are wealthier, the reason they eat fast food isn't because they would because of some socialization away from slow food.
The reason why is because they need to do it whether they're on the road or whether they simply have no other option.
Any system where we adopt slow food is one where we deny individuals this choice.
We think that slow food is already an option in a variety of places.
Italian restaurants exist all over the united states even small towns have them and they often practice slow food.
Honestly, anything that's not fast food is a slow food restaurant by my opponent's definition.
As such, adopting slow food, abolishing fast food, will ultimately just decrease the total capacity for choice that people have which will a, cost them more money, which I'll talk about later, and b, ultimately diminish their capacity to live the best life possible by diminishing their capacity to make choices.
My second argument is that of price.
We think that for a lot of people slow food is just too expensive.
Slow food takes longer, it takes more time and takes more man hours which ultimately costs more to actually be able to produce in a restaurant setting.
The result then is one in which people in poverty simply cannot go out to eat at all.
A lot of people consider fast food as eating out as a way in which they are actually having a more calm, happy meal.
If we increase the price of all food that people can get, all ways that they can step out of their house and get a meal prepared for them, the result is one which people in poverty will be priced out of eating out completely which we think is wholly unfair.
We also think things like food deserts will make it so the idealization of locally grown organic food makes it means that slow food is truly unattainable for a variety of communities.
My third and final argument is that of health.
Now it may seem unintuitive for why slow food is actually less healthy than fast food but we think it's pretty clear.
A lot of the time slow food is made out of fattier cuts of meat, fattier forms of food.
What we're seeing in the status quo is a world in which fast food is becoming far more healthy.
Salads are becoming more popular.
Veggie burgers, fish burgers and chicken burgers are replacing beef and cheese.
The result then is one which fast food already has this push towards healthiness but we really don't see that as a possibility with slow food.
Slow food constantly prioritizes using fattier cuts, more spices, more sodium and ultimately will become less healthier in the long term than fast food.
For this reason, we should not adopt slow food.