I stand in firm opposition to the motion suicide should be a criminal offense.
Although suicide is incredibly sad, government stepping in and telling people that it is illegal does little to prevent it from actually occurring.
All it does is actualize further harms against upon the victim of suicide and their family.
If we truly want to change how suicide is dealt with, making it a criminal offense will only entrench the harms which currently exist and which currently push people to suicidal tendencies.
I have two arguments.
First, how it makes it so individuals cannot access help and secondly, how it leads to cycles which further perpetuate suicidal thoughts but first an overview.
Much of tim's case rests upon the idea that making it a criminal offense will lead to some sort of deterrence.
That it will prevent people from taking their lives in the future.
Two major responses.
First, an individual who is suicidal will not consider the criminality of their actions if they feel so alone that they feel that they must take their own lives.
People commit suicide when they feel like they have literally no out, when every effort they've attempted to take has failed, when they wake up in the morning feeling truly empty, alone, and sad.
Making something a criminal offense is unlikely to change their value calculus.
At if you make the penalty profoundly large people will simply try to take their lives considerably more.
They'll if they attempt it once they'll attempt it again and again.
If you make it very very small then it won't change the value calculus at all.
At that point we think it changes no deterrence there in.
The other portion of tim's case rests upon the idea that you can push people into treatment.
Making something a criminal offense does not push people into public health centers.
We can see this with the war on drugs.
When the united states decides to charge people with criminal offenses when they are addicted to an elicit substance, all it does is create cycles where individuals continue to consume these illicit substances, where they continue to fall into problematic cycles.
Criminality is not a good response to public health issues and this is why the case is on face incorrect.
But two arguments.
First, it prevents individuals from accessing help.
First, to truly prevent individuals from committing suicide, they must have a support network around them.
When they can turn to friends, family, law enforcement, that's when they can find inspiration or otherwise prevent self harm.
Telling people that it is a criminal offense, that their friends and family could turn them in to the police and they could be charged with a crime makes it less likely that they will turn to their friends and neighbors.
The vast majority of suicide attempts are not public there pills, guns in the home.
If we want to prevent suicide, individuals must feel comfortable admitting their suicide attempts to their support network and making it a criminal offense does no such thing.
Even taking tim at his best and saying that every time someone is caught they'll be put against their will in a public health center, will also make people uncomfortable telling the people around them because they will understand that they will lose their autonomy if they admit they attempted to take their own life.
Now my second argument is that this leads to problematic cycles.
Making something a criminal offense, makes it so it will stay on their record for a huge portion of their lives.
Even misdemeanors stay on people's record for years on end and then they must go through a long and expensive process to expunge it from their record.
If we want people to feel comfortable, to be able to apply for jobs after taking their own lives, to feel comfortable doing charity work in background checks we cannot tell them that they will have this blight on their record for the rest of their lives.
These records chase people around.
They push them out of jobs, they push friends away from them.
This is why people take their lives.
All that making it a criminal offense will do is push people towards more suicidal thoughts and if they fail the suicide attempt will push them to try to take their lives again.
For this reason, so proud to oppose.