We should further exploit natural gas.
Natural gas is considerably under-exploited in the status quo because it is been given a bad rap.
It is been associated with coal and other considerably worse alternatives and as such, has not gotten the appreciation it deserves.
By replacing a variety of our current tools that are powered by coal and other fossil fuels with natural gas, we are far more likely to improve their efficiency and to reduce the total release of fossil fuels.
Three arguments for why we should further exploit natural gas.
First, on how it is incredibly efficient second, on energy security and third about how there it is preferable to the alternatives but first, a brief model.
Natural gas generally should be subsidized to a massive degree.
We would say that is price should be reduced by about fifteen percent of what it currently is and tools which use natural gas instead of using things like coal should be replaced and subsidized as well.
Once again three arguments: first off on how it is incredibly efficient.
Natural gas holds a mass amount of energy in each unit compared to other forms of fossil fuels and alternative energy.
By having an incredibly efficient fuel source we can do a couple things.
First, we are far more likely to see more efficient usage in places that are or in places that have no energy in the status quo.
A disturbing portion of the world goes without electricity on a daily basis and cannot power common infrastructure like hospitals and schools because it does not have enough energy to be used because it does not have the resources to access things like natural gas.
Through subsidization will do a few things.
First it will expand its usage overall.
Things that will replace other forms of energy and as such, improve the total efficiency of our industry.
This reduces all prices.
When food costs go down because agricultural tech decreases in price, when transportation costs go down cause transportation decreases in price, everything decreases in price.
Literally everything needs to be transported costs less and as things like homes decrease in price because it costs less to heat them.
You also see a correlation between that and general improvements within the economy.
Additionally, as we subsidize it and the use in the market expands, we'll see more innovation and its extraction and usage and as such it's price will decrease.
This means that people in poverty, this means that the global poor are far more likely to have access to it to expand their homes and communities generally improving their quality of life.
My second argument is about energy security.
Because natural gas is incredibly abundant throughout the world this means that instead of other fossil fuels where only one or two countries can use it, a variety of countries will have access to natural gas and sell it on the global market.
With a variety of suppliers available, no single state will be able to leverage its supply to pressure other individual states to take certain political actions.
This improves total sovereignty and generally makes the world a better place as we believe that the best arbiters of individual good and the ways of a particular government are citizens of that government.
Now my third argument is how it is preferable to a variety of alternatives.
Natural gas while not the perfect tool, is better than other fossil fuels to a massive degree.
It is more efficient and releases less carbon and other pollution into the atmosphere.
Although it is not as good as alternative energy in terms of its cleanliness, small steps are necessary to create a wider net of change.
We believe that as you empower individuals who are moderates in terms of energy security and energy policy you're far more likely to disempower the extremist, disempower the coal thumping individuals, and generally lead to a future which can take small steps towards alternative energy and a clean energy system overall.
For this reason, we should further exploit natural gas.