At the beginning of the twentieth century, anti-alcohol sentiment was on the rise in the united states.
Conservative politicians and political groups pushed to pass prohibition which banned all people from from consuming alcohol.
The result was that criminals were able to abuse this prohibition to sell alcohol while also making every single citizen who consumed alcohol a criminal themselves.
The solution to prohibition was twofold.
First off, the eighteenth amendment, excuse me, the twenty-first amendment was passed, which allowed people to consume alcohol once again and repealed the eighteenth amendment, but also an irrational solution was put in place where all states had to create a twenty-one-year drinking age or face a a removal of federal funding for their roads and other transportation infrastructure.
Because the drinking age is both an abuse of federal of government power and also because it is inherently impractical, we would say that we should lower the drinking age in the united states.
Two substantive points which support this motion: first, it is safer to have a lower drinking age.
In the status quo, individuals can first consume alcohol at the end of college.
This means that they are learning how to drink either in a illegal settings, that is around friends, and that's where they start to learn that limit.
What this means is that they can get blackout drunk around people who are irresponsible and largely other people who are also breaking the law and as such, are less likely to contact police officers.
This is in direct contrast to a lower drinking age, where individuals are likely to learn about alcohol with their family.
That is to say, their family might give them alcohol or they might even sneak alcohol or they might even consume alcohol without their family, but in their homes and as such, are likely to have greater protections.
They will learn about their limits in a way that is safe and they are far less likely to die as a result of alcohol poisoning.
Furthermore, if individuals show early signs of alcohol dependence, their parents are able to step in.
When an individual is starting college and proved to be an alcoholic from their freshman year on, what happens is they're less likely to have someone to step in.
Students do not like to impose themselves on other students, particularly when they party a lot.
However, if someone proves to be dependent from a younger age, parents will step in and ensure that there are ways to get over this sort of dependence.
Because lowering the drinking age makes children safer, we believe that the individuals should be able excuse me, should be of the drink from a lower age.
The second point of substantive material though is that criminalization leads to greater danger and also overcriminalization.
Recognize that the consumption of alcohol is is informally allowed for many individuals.
White teens can consume alcohol and will almost never be arrested by cops.
However, people of color and people who are minorities, people in poverty, are likely to get harassed by cops and as such, individuals at a younger age will be will be put in jail or questioned by cops in an abusive way.
Furthermore, for both people of color and white people as well, the criminalization of the consumption of alcohol makes them far less likely to call police officers.
Regardless of the best of what a certain individual feels is the best sphere to learn about alcohol, it is certain that if individuals are unwilling to call the cops in the event of alcohol poisoning and are more likely to abandon their friends, more people will die or have irreparable harm to their body.
The fear caused by the criminalization of alcohol leads individuals to consume recklessly and then have no safety net.
Because the drinking age makes children less safe, makes them more likely to be dependent on alcohol, and also leads to a general culture of overcriminalization, we would support lowering the drinking age.
Thank you.