I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should not tax food.
Taxing food seems counterproductive.
It seems as though we are essentially taking money away from people.
We are increasing the price of food in such a way that they can't afford food themselves.
This is quite simply not the case.
Taxing food is the same as taxing anything else.
At the end of the day, individuals will have to pay taxes one way or another and by taxing food we don't actually increase taxes simply increase the efficacy of taxes.
With that in mind, I have three arguments: first, that taxing food solves market distortion.
In the status quo we give massive subsidies to farms all over america and all over the world.
We think that by taxing food we ultimately solve this sort of market distortion.
It's probably true that we should fund farmers, that we should give money to farmers so that we alleviate their burden.
They can produce more food.
They can sell more food to us at a cheaper price.
At the end of the day, we think that these subsidies allow individuals to survive on the professional farming which is essential while also improving the food security for any state that subsidizes farms.
However, it's incredibly unclear why we should be paying taxes into this way and then decrease in the price as that changes the total value of these goods.
We think the effort that goes into goods is the same whether you subsidize them or not.
Ultimately, the subsidy decreases the prices artificially.
We think that prices are a fairly good way to approximate individual's effort in creating something and the value of that thing to society.
If I say, this carrot is a dollar and someone buys it, that's essentially the market value of that good.
If I get a subsidy and individuals already paid me to produce that carrot and I sell it for eighty cents, all the benefits go to the person who's buying that carrot.
However, if we tax it in a different way, if you make the price more accurate we think that individuals won't overconsume a certain good.
At the end of the day, what will happen is farmers will have their burden alleviated by subsidies but will also not have the over consumption ultimately overproduction of these sort of goods as the total demand will decrease.
My second argument is effectiveness.
It is incredibly difficult to levy taxes on most goods and most things.
In places like the US, we see amounts of tax fraud.
But if you go to a third world or developing state, we think that the tax fraud, or at least tax evasion, explodes in the total in this frequency.
By taxing food we ensure that there's a way to tax every single individual in an effective way.
These large supermarkets, these large stores can levy these sort of taxes, guarantee that they'll actually charge these individuals and no one will get away from this because all people need to eat.
This leads to my third argument.
We think that this is an equitable tax on consumption.
I think the main argument my opponent it's going to make is that the problem with taxing food is that individuals will not be able to afford as much food.
But is this any different than taxing individual's income?
We think that if I take ten percent of people's income, well they're going to have less money to do everything, that includes buying food.
If I put a fifteen percent tax on food, we think that's the same amount of money that goes out of people's wallet, the same amount of money they lose but we don't just tax income as a whole.
We just tax consumption.
Why is this important?
In many cases the government wants to actually subsidize or at least improve individual's ability to save.
If we increase the incentive to save by charging people for consumption, we think that the result is that people save more money.
In the status quo people simply do not save enough money for retirement.
They don't save enough money to live an effective quality of life.
By taxing food and effectively taxing consumption rather than income will push people to save more money, it make it so homelessness and poverty for elderly individuals decreases and the obligation of government to solve these problems also goes down saving people money in the long term.
For this reason, we should tax food.