We should not subsidize single parents.
Although single parents need help, it is not simply because they are single parents.
It is usually because they don't have enough money, they don't have enough time, to actually help their children.
That being said, we would say that single parents largely have the capacity to get other forms of welfare or they simply don't deserve welfare at all.
It is largely unclear why a lawyer single parent deserves additional money from our society simply because they are a single parent.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that no unique subsidies go to single parents and that single parents can get things like welfare but not simply because they are a single parent.
This leads me to my first argument about how we should be subsidizing broad groups of people rather than simply more niche groups.
We think that it is only good to subsidize a group if the very condition that we are subsidizing will inherently make them worse off.
What do we mean by this?
If someone is in poverty, they clearly need money.
No ifs, ands, or buts about it.
If someone does not have enough money to feed themselves and get shelter, giving them more money will help them live better.
However, we think that if someone is a single parent, they may be incredibly wealthy, they may have inherited their money, maybe working towards their money, either way it is unclear why individuals who may be making less money than them who may need to leave their children alone for even longer because they're working multiple jobs should subsidize these single parents.
Instead of doing this, we should be funding the groups of individuals who need the money the most.
We would say that money is also fungible so every dollar that we give towards a single parent who does not deserve that kind of money is a money that's taken away from the individuals who need it the most.
Secondly though we think there's no obligation from governments to fund individuals who are single parents.
When someone's been in poverty, it is in many ways due to societal factors.
The likelihood that someone will end up in poverty after being born in poverty is incredibly high.
Additionally, the government has taken active steps to keep certain people in poverty.
Union busting and through the nineteen fifties and forward, redlining for people of color where they simply cannot get jobs in good areas, there have been a variety of practices where government has continued poverty simply because it benefits the richest in our society.
The same cannot be said about single parents.
It cannot be said that the government has actively fought to make single parents in the condition that they're in.
We would say that they largely can't be blamed for these sort of conditions either but it is unclear why the government which is made up of people should have to spend their money in order to help these sort of individuals.
Given that there's not a reciprocal obligation to help these people, that is to say there's no way in which other people have been enriched simply because these people have been made worse off, there's no obligation then to give them additional social benefits.
My third and final argument is about how child support solves.
We think that child support is not enough in our in our current society.
If someone runs away from the child, that is to say puts all the obligation on a single parent, they should have to pay a huge amount of their income to their former partner.
We would say that if someone is even if someone's in poverty they should have to pay the vast majority of their welfare the vast majority of the additional funds that they get to their child.
We would first say that this will incentivise people to stay longer which is generally a good thing.
We'd secondly say though that these are the individuals who caused the harm in the first place.
If these individuals are unwilling to support their child financially, unwilling to take joint custody of their child, they should have to pay increased money.
Obviously this doesn't solve every case that is to say if someone's a widow, if someone simply doesn't have a partner anymore, however we would say that if they are poor we can give them more money through that kind of welfare and if they're a rich widow they can just hire more childcare workers either way.
For this reason we should not subsidize single parents.