I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should abolish the two party system.
Two overviews before I go into my two points of substantive material.
First off, on the location of this motion.
I think that will wants to hide where we are discussing the actual policy being taken because it makes it very clear why this could never work.
The two party system is very prevalent in the united states.
It is a result of first pass the post voting, it is a result of policies which make it so it is only possible for two parties to succeed.
By trying to abolish the two party system we destroy the infrastructure created by the united states and created by the people of the united states in favor of some abstract goal.
Secondly though, on the idea of cooperation and gridlock.
It is inevitable that the majority party will have opposition from the second largest party.
We see this in britain right now, where the conservative party and the liberal party are fighting tooth and nail to control the system overall.
As such there have been incredibly problematic deals being made.
The conservative party has made agreements with the ultra conservative right wing party of the UK which supports violent action against people who disagree with them and a great restriction in the rights of people who are not part of their party platform.
We think that this doesn't create more cooperation, it actually creates problematic cooperation as we believe that people create coalitions with problematic groups to fight the second largest party which is far more likely to be centrist.
Two arguments, first off is on autonomy in the party.
If you have like a hundred different parties individuals who subscribe to a certain party will have no autonomy with their own ideology.
What do we mean by this?
We think that in the status quo if you are a democrat that can mean a lot of different things.
If you're a democrat in portland, oregon it means that you are incredibly liberal what most the country would call ultra left wing and are likely to support what might be considered socialist policies.
But if you're democrat in rhode island, you are far more likely to be religiously conservative, support very centrist policies, sometimes republican policies, which we think isn't actually the worst thing in the world.
We think having a prescriptive ideology given your party is actually a bad thing.
We think that seats will or particular areas will always be controlled by a certain party.
We think that a community which considers itself more conservative, or concerns itself to be aligned with a certain party, will only elect politicians from that party.
As such anyone who wants to fill that spot will have to be restricted by that party's ideology.
In the status quo, in areas which are considered deep blue or deep red, someone can run as a republican and then pass a variety of policies, some of which are republican, some of which are democrat.
But in an area controlled by say, a libertarian candidate, someone would have to be anti-government across the board, greatly reducing their autonomy and actually greatly reducing the choice of the people.
If we think that autonomy is good in the democratic system we ought have two broad parties rather than a a variety of narrow parties.
Secondly though, we think this is logistically impossible.
We think that there is already a number of ways in which the two party system's harms are mitigated.
Things like primaries allow a diverse number of candidates to compete within the party system and in the two ideologies to face off each other in the general election.
We think this is the best case scenario because having say, the primaries move into the general election or having a bunch of different parties fight over the general election, some are likely to first split the vote.
This means that if there are two liberal parties, which are actually the most popular but each get say, thirty percent of the vote, and there are forty percent of the population which are conservative, the conservative candidate will still win.
Splitting the vote means that the people are not represented in in the legislative system and are less likely to have a democratic state in the process.
Secondly though, we think the the united states has been set up in such a way that only two parties are even meaningfully possible.
We think even the abandonment of federal policies which push two parties are unlikely to create meaningful change and as such we think that there'll be great disarray and in in the possibility for many individuals to express themselves in the legislative system being even more anti-democratic.
For this reason we should not abolish the two party system.