We should abolish the united nations security council veto.
Despite being an institution predicated on togetherness and democratic policy making the united nations has a system in place which puts power in the already established hegemons.
It prevents the general assembly from making meaningful policy which would prevent genocide and otherwise create peace in areas which are fraught with turmoil.
Because we think this is a problematic system a model that we propose the following model: that the united nations should abolish security council veto and keep the process for passing policy otherwise the same.
Two arguments to support this motion: first that the veto reduces the efficacy of the united nations and second that it serves as a reflection of current hegemonic powers which is incredibly problematic for creating long term progress.
First on efficacy.
The united nations requires that a majority of states work together to create a particularly to particular policy outcome.
The status quo is that it to pass a policy states must collect half of these states in the world's support and then pass their policy through the security council.
This is incredibly problematic because it makes things like humanitarian aid and humanitarian intervention incredibly difficult.
How do you meaningfully intervene in a conflict if you must have long term general assembly discussions and then must try to convince every single security council member not to veto a particular bill or form a piece of policy.
This makes it so the united nations is incredibly inefficient and ineffective in preventing long term violence which causes things like genocide.
If individuals knew the united nations would react swiftly genocide would be far less likely because it would be far less likely to have a meaningful effect on the society in which it is occurring.
Additionally though, the united nations security council veto makes it so states just disengage completely from the united nations.
If individuals if individual nations know that their voices will not be heard or know that they cannot strike out against the hegemons they will simply cease using the united nations as an effective tool.
This is already occurring the status quo.
The united nations is simply a forum for high falutin rhetoric which has no real value and no effect on the world as a whole.
If we want the united nations to fulfill the goals outlined in its charter and outlined in things like the universal declaration of human rights it must have the teeth to do so.
The second argument however is that this is a hegemonic reflection that large states those in the security council can use their power to prevent themselves from ever facing scrutiny.
We see this already.
The general assembly has passed policy targeting particular states and said that those states must take particular action.
Now, this policy never really targets the security council states because the general assembly it knows that these policies will be vetoed if that if it gets that form and they don't want to risk their relationship with those states.
This is problematic because the UN can never check the states who most regularly commit abuses against developing nations such as the united states.
Additionally though allies of the united states allies of russia allies of china can also not face scrutiny because they know that the security council ally will simply veto policies which target them.
This is problematic because once again the UN loses all of its efficacy.
Because the UN has no power as long as the veto stays in place we should abolish the UN veto.