We should ban partial birth abortion.
Partial birth abortions are effectively killing a child simply because the mother or couple who had the child was indecisive.
We would say that when a child is essentially fully formed they ought to have the legal protections of a child outside of the womb.
Because of this, we support the following model.
Then all western liberal democracies partial birth abortions should be banned.
This means abortions after or in the third trimester where the fetus itself is essentially fully formed into a child, has a clearly defined body with the nervous system and immune system.
We would say when we kill these children we have two harmful effects which will be my arguments.
First, we distort the definition of humanity and leave currently living individuals unprotected and second, you create a crisis of confidence, a crisis of conscience where there is a clear, improper effect from culpability.
Now my first argument is regarding the definition of humanity.
The only way that we can have an effective definition of humanity is if that definition is universal.
You can apply it to all things and ask does this object fulfill our definition?
We would say that this definition ought to include individuals and vegetative state.
If they were once a human they probably deserve human respect.
This also protects individuals with severe mental or physical defects or problems, essentially living without machines or living without some other individual taking care of them.
At this point, there is no definition which includes these individuals which does not include fetuses at the partial birth stage.
These fetuses have the primal streak.
A unique characteristic in all humans.
They have a nervous system, an immune system they are past the point where we would say that they are naturally flushed out by the human body.
They are for all intents and purposes humans.
Refusing to respect them as humans has two major effects.
First off, we would say that having this abortion is effectively murder at the point where they ought to be included under our definition, but if you accept that this definition is incorrect, you exclude many individuals who ought deserve our protection.
If someone is living and can only live with the support of another human being they cannot work, they can essentially not feed themselves, are they deserve no do they deserve no human protection?
The answer quite simply is no.
The only way that we can universalize human rights, the only way which we can have true respect for humanity particularly going into a world where cloning and other technology questions our definition of humanity, we must ban partial birth abortions as murder.
Then my second argument is the idea of culpability.
Quite simply, an individual who would get a partial birth abortion had months upon months to decide to get an abortion before the stage, had the ability to access birth control, emergency contraception, a variety of other tactics in order to ensure that this partial birth abortion was not necessary.
Of course if this individual would die, we would say that this partial birth abortion should be allowed.
We are only banning it in cases where the partial birth abortion is not essentially life saving for the mother.
At that point the mother has accepted the responsibility for their actions.
They've accepted that there's a human growing inside them and they will not terminate their life.
At this point, terminating the life is a simple weighing of rights.
The mother has refused her right to terminate the pregnancy at an early stage and as such just gain simple utility out of not having this child.
They save themselves some pain given that we exclude lifesaving treatments.
On the other hand, we are taking a human life someone who deserves to be alive and as such, it is incredibly clear that we ought ban partial birth abortions.
Thank you.