We should increase the use of personalized medicine.
As sort of a meta-definition, as an high-level definition of personalized medicine, it largely depends on the analysis of genes and the analysis of personalized traits which may cause a particular injury, as a way to determine the best medicine and medication to resolve a particular issue.
It is the philosophy that medicine should use more niche appreciations of particular reasons for disease, rather than overarching and generic resolutions to symptoms that we see in the status quo.
We believe that the use of personalized medicine largely decreases the total amount of harm and health harms that individuals face, largely are cheaper, oddly enough, than generic medicines, and are far more likely to lead to insight and spillover technology in the overall fight against disease.
To this end, we would propose the following model: that the united states federal government substantially subsidize research into particular or personalized medicine, wherein individuals can get gene treatment or specialized medication with little to no difficulty.
My first argument is regarding accuracy.
We think that individuals are far more likely to get an effective and meaningful resolution to their disease if we use personalized medicine.
The only thing common about a disease, going from person to person or, at least, the most common thing, in general, are symptoms.
As such, we see that in the status quo, medical professionals largely use their expertise in a as a way to resolve people's symptoms.
If ten people are all having headaches, a doctor is far more likely to give them all aspirin than give them each medication to solve the individual cause of their headaches.
As such, people have massive hospital bills, as they are unable to get a real resolution to their disease and continually try to solve it simply with symptom-medicatory medication.
Secondly, we are far more likely to see death as a result of disease, because resolving someone's immediate symptoms does not resolve the long-term health harms that cause that symptom.
We think it is essential for personalized medicine to be adopted to save individuals' lives and increase the accuracy of diagnoses.
My second argument is cost.
Two reasons why the costs will decrease once this occurs: first, because as we subsidize particular medicine and personalized medicine, we're likely to see a decreased cost as the average return for each individual consumer is increased and as such, the average corporation has more of an incentive to attract more consumers and decrease the cost.
But secondly, we think as it becomes more popular, the rich actually subsidize the poor in this case.
Each human may be fairly unique but, honestly, the genetic makeup and nuances of our genome are not too different from at least one other person on earth.
We think as the rich become more acclimated to personalized medicine, they may face high costs as the first mover, but every other individual who has a similar genetic makeup or a similar genetic cause to a particular harm are far more likely to see a massive supply, but very little demand.
They're likely to be able to buy this medication for very cheap as the research has already been done for the first mover, and now they simply get to get the benefits of these people taking this action.
Subsidizing it decreases the costs for rich people, which inherently decreases the cost for poor people.
My third argument is about the insight and spillover involved in personalized medicine.
We think that it this is largely the most research-based form of healing that we've seen in all of history.
It allows us to understand the genome, something that we do not have a complete understanding of now, and find the variety of approaches to solve it once we have the initial information.
As such, we think that this can have an huge benefits to fields such as fertility, treatment of immediate and long-term diseases, prevention of hereditary diseases, each of these can be benefited simply by increasing the use of personalized medicine.