We should protect internet privacy.
Constitutional protections for privacy exist because we think that the private life of an individual should be free from government intervention unless they have committed a heinous crime.
When the government attempts to usurp our private lives, when it attempts to take our data and learn as much as they can about it, the result is a dramatic shift towards authoritarianism.
We believe that internet privacy is just as important as physical privacy, and not only are there contracts in place protecting physical privacy, but we think its it is a moral imperative that each individual feels comfortable doing what they feel is right, what they feel is good as long as it is with in the barriers of the law.
With that in mind we would propose the following model: that the government actively protect internet privacy, that subpoenas for data collection be turned down far more often, that any attempt to access someone's private info on the internet on behalf of a government organization require a subpoena as long as they're not simply accessing information on a government site.
We have three arguments for why protecting internet privacy is essential.
First off is about government obligation in the constitution.
The constitution explicitly outlines protecting privacy rights on a physical level.
It says that individuals cannot have their house boarded by government soldiers, it says that there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, and that we cannot be the subject of unreasonable search or seizure.
None of these provisions of the constitution, save for the third amendment where individuals can't have a soldiers quartered in their home, explicitly say that this is a physical right.
What we mean by this is when the ever the government mentions privacy within the constitution, it does not explicitly limit it to our physical interpretations, to our physical life.
We believe that someone's privacy in the mail or someone's privacy in speaking is just as important as their privacy on the internet as they are essentially all the same medium.
We believe the government has a moral obligation to uphold the constitution given that it is the framework on which the government is based.
When the government fails to uphold their obligations under the constitution, it violates the rights of all americans.
Not only that, it's fundamentally makes the united states impossible to predict or hold accountable.
If we do not follow our own laws, if we do not follow the strongest law in the land, then what are we doing?
My second argument is about the police state.
We think that the police often don't have the ability to punish every single person for every single crime they commit.
This is a good thing.
If every time someone jaywalked they got a ticket or every time someone pirated a movie they were hit with a massive fine, individuals will be far less happy, far less safe, and ultimately we wouldn't really help the world as a whole.
By reducing internet privacy and allowing the police to constantly view individuals' online actions, we think that police overstep becomes far more likely.
Even if the police do not arrest you, being publicly shamed for a particular preference is also incredibly problematic.
This leads me to my third argument, comfort.
We think that individuals must feel comfortable in their own skin and with their own opinions if they want to live a good quality of life.
Even individuals with problematic points of view should have some solace, should have some capacity to speak their mind, both because we think that we they are far more likely to feel the repercussions of it if they do speak their mind but secondly simply because self actualization is important and repression does not help anyone.
For this reason, we should protect internet privacy.