We should adopt the metric system.
The imperial system, quite frankly, is a confusing mess.
Each conversion requires knowledge about how the individual units work together.
There are no clues based on the unit itself that tell you how to convert.
If I'm converting feet to miles, I just have to know that conversion or be able look it up.
Compare that to the metric system where each conversion is incredibly simple, requires only someone to understand what kilo, mega, each of those individual terms mean and then simply to apply them.
For the metric system, individuals are able to apply it with incredibly little problem compared to the imperial system.
The imperial system has kept us isolated in both trade and cooperation.
As such, I would propose the following model: that the united states federal government adopt the metric system, start teaching it in schools, start using it as its standard government measuring system, and generally expand it into all spheres possible.
My first argument is about how this will make commerce considerably easier.
In the status quo, for individuals to do commerce based on two different systems of weight, they must spend money converting these individual costs.
Although that money might be small for an individual transaction, aggregated across billions and billions of transactions every year, it can actually cost each economy a substantial amount.
We think that adopting the metric system will largely make commerce easier.
Individuals will feel less apprehensive about dealing with other individuals' goods.
They can buy foreign or imported goods far more easily without fearing that they might be ripped off because they cannot understand or conceptualize the actual amount of the thing that they're buying, that might be within that imported food.
Additionally, we think it'll increase cooperation.
In the status quo, if a particular agency is using imperial units, they're far less likely to engage in the international sphere or have cooperation, particularly on an academic level, compared to if they are using the metric system.
My second argument is fewer disasters.
The metric system is not inherently better for preventing disasters.
However, given that the metric system is the assumption and the imperial system kind of just snakes its way in, if we make one thing the default, the only system used, we're far less likely to have catastrophic problems like the challenger explosion.
We've seen organizations as large as nasa, as intelligent as nasa end up destroying multimillion dollar spaceships because of a small conversion between imperial and metric, because an assumption was made about how a particular unit was written.
Although this might seem like a small benefit, that is to say say preventing one harm from the past, we think that even though this one harm has been discussed at length, there are many harms that are not present or are not discussed as often which can be prevented or which would have been prevented if we were simply using the metric system.
My third and final argument is that there's going to be fewer costs for exports.
We think that in many of these cases, excuse me, less training for experts.
In many of these cases, we think that individuals must be trained to use the metric system more often.
If I go to elementary school and I'm taught the imperial system either in middle school, college, or high school, I must be taught the imperial system.
If I'm not, then I have to do it on the job.
Either way, we're wasting time teaching a backward system which is not useful in any way, shape or form.
We could simply be using the metric system.
For this reason, we should adopt the metric system.