We should cancel social security.
In the united states, social security represents a cash transfer.
For all intents and purposes, it is taking money from someone in the short term and giving them a bit more money in the long term.
It is making an investment on their behalf and saying that the government ought invest on individual's behalf.
Because this goes against every theory of taxation and fundamentally represents paternalism which was unfair and unjust, we would say that we should cancel social security.
The model we propose is that the government will pay back all money in taxation to individuals who have paid the social security tax.
This means that, as soon as possible, the government will spend money to young people, middle-aged people, old people, alike, to give them their tax dollars back.
Two arguments to support this motion: first off is paternalism.
It is not the government's role to invest money on people's behalf.
Taxes are only just if certain conditions are met: first, if there's a collective action problem that cannot be solved by a single individual.
This condition is necessary because it prevents the government from overstepping its bounds and simply controlling any aspect of our lives.
Social security clearly fails the standard as as investing and retirement ought be an individual choice.
If I want to spend more money now to go on a trip to thailand, that money ought be mine to spend and could very well be more utile than money I get when I'm sixty or seventy.
Secondly, tax dollars ought be put in place to deter or incentivize particular action.
Clearly, the social security paycheck does not do this, the social security tax.
All it does is it disincentivizes people from investing in real forms of investment, that is, the stock market, the bond market, honestly, just high-interest accounts.
All that social security does is it paternalizes individuals.
It is even more problematic that social security is not actually the most fruitful investment.
It'll usually gets considerably less than the market rate considering what people put in.
If people were to pay the same amount as our social security tax into the stock market every year, they would invest retire with far more money.
The final way in which a tax can be just is if it is a cash transfer to people who need it, that is, it prevents starvation or other harms to individuals.
Clearly, social security does not do this.
It is a cash transfer from a young self to an old self.
There is no justice in this sort of transfer and no clear need.
If young people simply invested on their own behalf, social security would not be necessary in any meaningful way.
It simply provides another coffer from which the government can borrow money.
Because it is unjust, we should cancel social security.
The second argument I'd like to put forward is the idea of fairness.
Social security will not be solvent into the near future.
In the status quo, it is already struggling to pay back the money it has borrowed to seniors.
This means that is simply passing the buck among generations.
The current young people, myself included, pay a social security tax which goes to the oldest people in our country.
However, when I get old, it is incredibly unlikely that social security will still exist, particularly if we are if we are in a depression.
By paying back the money now, we ensure that every individual is justly compensated.
It allows individuals to take the money that was taken from them by the government and invest it for their own gain.
But furthermore, it simply makes it so my generation or even the generations before me do not have to go into retirement with no money, even though they paid thousands upon thousands of dollars into social security's coffers.
Because it is a form of unjust paternalism and because it is unfair to not pay back social security in the long term, we should cancel social security.
Thank you.