I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize adoption.
My opponent likes to construct this idea that children are products that are sold at high prices.
We think that adoptions are a market transaction but through subsidization, we largely put children into a system which we already think is predatory that is to say, the foster care system.
When parents see children as a tool to become enriched rather than something that they want to work with, a human being that they want to raise, we see incredible and drastic harms.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first, an overview.
All that this does is remove the diversity of options.
What do we mean by this?
By subsidizing adoption, by paying the lion's share of the cost of a child, many individuals can make money by adopting a child and trying to cut costs across the board.
This is incredibly problematic because this is literally the foster care system.
A system which my own opponent has decried time and time again.
I'll address this more in my first argument, but I want to a little bit of a rebuttal first.
My opponent says that this is a classist thing to do.
A few responses: first, we think there's not really a change that comes from this.
At the end of the day, individuals who do not have the time to raise kids, will not be able to raise children.
People in poverty simply cannot access adoption effectively unless they give up their jobs and open a foster home.
At that point, we think that it's unimportant if it's classist because children's rights are being violated by being put in worse homes.
Overall, there's no right to be a parent.
There's no right to the adoption system particularly when it harms children.
We think that individuals who are middle class, upper class, even lower middle class, can access this.
But honestly, if a child would not be able to be in a home because the parent would not be there to raise them, or or effectively does not have the capacity to pay for a child even after subsidization, we think that we shouldn't harm children simply because we want to seem less classist.
My first argument then is about how this really makes everything into the foster care system.
People have an incentive to take as many kids as possible.
People will be profit seeking over all, which means that they're likely to see children as products rather than as people to raise.
They will treat them worse.
They will give them worse goods and foods.
They will generally adopt a huge number of children, allow them to have the hand-me-downs of previous kids to save costs, feed them the worst things possible in order to save costs, and generally bring children back when it is no longer profitable to have them.
My second argument is about the fungibility of resources.
We think this is likely going to come out of the money of adoption homes in the status quo.
Why is this the case?
When individuals see adoption rate skyrocket, even though all that's really happening is we have more foster homes, legislative bodies are far more likely to decrease the funding to the adoption system and orphanages.
As such, we think that these homes which need the cash are far more likely to lose money.
This is problematic for two reasons.
First, we think that's just bad that even as a temporary area children will be improperly fed, improperly clothed, improperly sheltered, simply because there's not enough money coming from the state.
There's already too little money in the status quo.
This makes it even worse.
Secondly though, this is far more likely to hurt the worst off over all in an incredibly problematic way.
The reason that this is the case is because children who are disabled, who have special needs or generally are seen as less attractive to parents, are the ones who have to stay in these orphanages for their entire life and if we decrease the funding, these children who need the most funding overall to live a good quality of life will likely suffer an incredible amount.
For this reason, we should not subsidize adoption.