We should ban beauty pageants.
Few events are as objectifying as the modern beauty pageant.
Because we think it has a problematic affect both on the individuals within the show itself and on any individuals in society who view beauty pageants, we would support the following model: that all beauty pageants be banned, that any organizers of a beauty pageant face a moderately severe fine.
How we're going to define beauty pageants is relatively fluid, we would say that in the event that depends on displaying women primarily for their looks rather than their talents, ought be banned.
We understand that this is a very wide and fluid definition but we believe that any iterations of beauty pageants which are similar to modern beauty pageants ought to be banned.
Two arguments before but before that, an overview.
I want to discuss when governments have an obligation to step in.
There are three criteria which clearly define when governments ought step in to improve society, first off, if the act is utile.
This is fairly clear.
If governments taking action does more good than harm, they probably ought step in.
Secondly, there must be efficacy.
We think it's fairly easy to ban beauty pageants given that if you can't actually advertise beauty pageants, if you can't attract a huge following it's unlikely people will put these things on.
Furthermore, we would say that black market beauty pageants are both unlikely and are additionally unlikely to be any worse than regular beauty pageants.
And finally, we would say that governments ought to step in if a system cannot be challenged by citizens within the state.
We say we would say that beauty pageants are an entrenched issue that simply depend on a niche group within society viewing them.
As such, individuals and activists within society cannot remove it, only the government can step in, making it the actor who must take action in this case.
Two arguments, first off on objectification.
Society follows media attention and cash flows as individuals devote time, money, and energy towards this event, to discuss this event, idolize this event.
The result is that society will follow, it will seep into other ways of life and be seen as an acceptable point of view.
Each time someone views a beauty pageant, says it is acceptable to judge women nearly exclusively on their looks, they create a culture of objectification.
It's very clear how beauty pageants do this, they literally have a swimsuit contest and even the beauty pageants with don't have swimsuit contests are based primarily on beauty.
Many individuals tune into beauty pageants to listen to the answers that pageant winners will give but primarily for comedic effect.
They do this because they think these women are not intelligent enough to give nuanced answers.
As such it creates a culture that harms all women, they're seen as objects are not people, furthermore they're seen as individuals who ought not hold positions of power.
This is incredibly incredibly problematic for the whole of society and as such governments ought step in to rectify this problem.
For the second argument is that this creates a problematic culture.
We would say that child pageants are abusive and have no consent from the children themselves, it depends on children children being pushed into these events by their parents and what leads to long term scars.
We would say that this alone is reason enough to ban beauty pageants.
But we'd also say with adult beauty pageants the contestants are harmed in an incredibly meaningful way.
Many contestants have eating disorders because the skinnier contestants typically win, furthermore they're they're expected to give up portions of their lives, of their young adult life, which would otherwise be spent working at a job where they can develop their skills and experience and instead simply they're expected to marry rich or otherwise use their body to further themselves rather than their brain and their own development.
As such we think it's bad for literally everyone involved and governments ought ban beauty pageants.