I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
Hydroelectric dams while fairly efficient are already at their maximum capacity.
Every single state which can afford to put them in place and where putting them in place does not cause massive amounts of environmental harm have already done so.
Further exploitation would saturate the market inefficiently causing similar environmental harms that we've seen in the past but providing very little energy compared to currently existing dams.
Because we think that hydroelectric power is not nearly as efficient as my opponent likes to suggest, we would say that we should not further exploit it.
I have two arguments in today's debate first, on the political repercussions of hydroelectric power and second, on the environmental harms of these dams but first, I want to give an overview.
A lot of yaar's speech depends on the idea that hydroelectric power will replace fossil fuels throughout the world.
This is false on two fronts.
First, we think that this sort of power is generally inefficient and will not replace industry or gasoline powered cars.
Most people do not have electric cars so gasoline fracking the entire process there will continue.
Similarly, industry requires massive amounts of energy that hydroelectric power simply cannot cater to.
At that point, increasing the usage of hydroelectric dams will only replace other forms of alternative energy which have very few issues compared to hydro electric power.
Additionally, the lobbying power of fossil fuels, even if you buy all of yaar's argumentation on how it could be replace these fossil fuels, suggests that these lobbying groups will never allow fossil fuels to die.
What we mean by this is that they have their hooks in congress, they have their hooks in legislative bodies around the world, which will allow them to continue the usage of fossil fuels even when it is inefficient.
As such, we don't think that this actually replaces fossil fuels.
Now on the the second idea that I want to address before I get on to my own substantive material is what yaar says about the end of fossil fuels, about what happens when we run out.
Peak oil theory is fraudulent and has been debunked numerous times.
Fracking demonstrates that we can find other ways to get oil that other ways to harvest fossil fuels suggesting that we'll never actually run out.
At this point there's no impetus for change besides environmental change, but as I've already argued, this will not replace fossil fuels.
Now my first argument is that there are political ramifications of hydroelectric dams which are not efficient.
Compare this to other forms of alternative energy.
There's already massive support for solar power and wind power but hydroelectric dams first, anger conservatives given that they destroyed rivers, displace people, require huge amounts of eminent domain to create, and secondly, anger liberals given that they represent an affront to nature as a whole, destroy rivers, and similarly displace poor communities which they also don't like.
At this point, we think that hydroelectric power will only make the population angrier and when government takes action without the will of the people behind it it is acting tyrannically and can never be supported.
My second argument is that there are environmental harms to these dams which must be addressed.
When these dams are put in place a couple things happen.
First, areas are flooded.
We usually create lakes behind these dams with rivers pouring through at a slower rate.
This displaces people but also destroys forest and wetlands.
This is incredibly problematic as this is a central territory for endangered species.
Additionally, these dams regularly kill fish as fish find it very difficult to get through these damn safely and regularly try to swim through these turbines which shreds them to bits.
As such, we think this environmental harm is unjustifiable.
We cannot simply trade-off human benefit for harming massive amounts of nature in poor communities which would otherwise surround these dammed up areas.
As such, we should not further exploit hydroelectric dams.