We should ban alternative medicine.
Alternative medicine is an oxymoron.
Were some sort of procedure an effective way to treat a disease it would become a real medicine.
Herbs and plants which have been effective in treating ailments have been commonly reused in pills and used in medical science.
Alternative medicine however represents pseudo science.
Typically it is herbs plans and strategies which actually cause more harm to individuals and leave people worse off than they would otherwise be.
Our model for this motion is fairly simple that alternative medicine stop advertising itself as much.
People can still sell lavender.
People can still provide acupuncture but it must first have a clear message that this is not medicine and should never be used for substitute.
And second have a government warning saying that is not medicine.
It is impossible to truly ban alternative medicine because there will always be rumors on the internet but we think that a prohibition on companies selling alternative medicine and pushing it down people's throats will effectively prevent huge amounts of harms to society.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First that people use it as a substitute for real medicine the prestige and the position afforded to companies and afforded to the creators of alternative medicine is fundamentally unjust.
It is unearned and typically is just used to draw profit for the people providing alternative medicine.
Unfortunately those people who drive profit from alternative medicine have a huge incentive to push it as a substitute for real medicine.
What happens as a result is that people go and get say acupuncture to try to cure their cancer.
We saw that steve jobs died due to kidney cancer which could have easily been mitigated because he relied almost exclusively on on alternative medicine.
Having labels and clear warnings that say that alternative medicine is not effective and that people should go to a doctor for any real ailments will make it so people are far more likely to go and get real medical support.
So first save their own lives because they'll stop using alternative medicine to stop to try to prevent other diseases.
But second save the lives of people around the uses of alternative medicine.
It will help people who are completely unrelated to those users given that diseases will be prevented more easily and less likely to spread but it will also be effective in saving the lives of children of people who believe in alternative medicine.
These are the most common victims of alternative medicine because even if something as simple as the flu can shut down their immune system without immediate medical support they can die.
We believe that this is fundamentally unjust and both the individual and third party harms ought to be prevented by the government through this sort of policy.
And the second argument is that alternative medicine regularly actively harms individuals for two reasons.
First the complete lack of regulation.
Individuals who practice alternative medicine do not require any sort of licensing from the state do not require any recognition and can basically claim that their alternative medicine is a cure all.
They can say acupuncture will prevent heart attacks they can say acupuncture will stop cancer they can say cranberry juice will flush out the toxins which they say are in your bodies.
We believe that stopping this sort of false advertising will make it so individuals are less likely to go to people who have the sort of lack of regulation and are far more likely to use better sources instead of doing things like acupuncture they might see a physical therapist for their ailments which will actually do far more good in the long term.
But secondly we think there's an act of harm because the plants that they serve like things like night shade things like ginger because of the mystique around them do that like historical uses of these plants and medicine are typically used even modern alternative medicine.
Stopping these from being injested will save people's lives and save them misfortune in the long term.
For this reason we should stop alternative medicine.