We should protect endangered species.
When the actions of humanity have rendered entire species extinct and put other species on the edge of extinction does our obligation to step in and right the wrongs that we've created?
As such, we support the following models.
That all democracies should adopt key tenets of endangered species acts including fines for individuals who develop in the habitats of these animals, fines for hunters who kill these animals.
We would support a system where animals who are killed accidentally are charged less than animals who are killed on purpose when they're on the endangered species list.
But we think it is essential that the fines are substantial such that anyone who kills one these animals takes a serious financial hit.
We would say that anyone who accidentally kills these animals is negligent and as such, we are fully fine with charging these people massive amounts of money as well.
We think that these fines are imperative to ensure that people are cautious in the habitats of these species.
I have a brief overview before two arguments.
My overview is about culpability.
The my opponent will bring up arguments about the market and how this harms certain actors individually, people who live in the areas where these endangered species also live.
Recognize that the people who have caused the most harm to these species are the people who live in their habitats, who willfully and continuously kill them order to protect their own land or simply because they want to do it for sport.
As such, we think it is absolutely fine to then punish these people for putting these species in this situation.
With that two arguments.
First, about ecosystems.
Every single part of the food chain is essential.
If the bottom of the food chain goes away the every single link above it dies out.
If something in the middle goes away the links below it expand in size while the links above it begin to starve.
This is incredibly problematic as it can cause massive disbalance in the ecosystem.
If the apex predator dies they'll simply be imbalance all the way down for instance, in the pacific northwest when wolves are hunted near to extinction, the deer population exploded which then put mass amounts of vegetation on the edge of extinction and forced many other herbivores to leave the area or face endangered species status themselves.
As such, if we do not protect endangered species and we allow them to go extinct ecosystems around the world will suffer.
This has two huge harms.
First, we think there is some rights to existence that belongs to animals unless there is a massive human need we ought not destroy entire species.
Quite simply, we think that this is a theft from the whole of humanity and also violates the rights of the animals.
Secondly, when ecosystems die the plants there die as well, invasive species move in, and the quality of life for people in the areas decreases massively.
First though global warming and we think that this causes a mass amount of harm to the whole of humanity.
Additionally, things like erosion and water pollution also increase substantially as animals and plants are removed from the area.
Now my second argument is about learning and the value of having these species around.
We can learn huge amounts from animals but we are only now having the technology to look in depth at the mechanisms which allow the them to do incredible things and to understand the chemical composition of their bodies.
As such, every single species which goes extinct threatens to reduce the total amount of knowledge that we have available for the rest of time.
It is imperative imperative that we protect these endangered species so that we can continue to learn from them.
Over time, we have continuously adapted and adopted various things from nature in order to save lives through medical technology or to improve technology as we learn about the mechanisms that they use for things like flight, burrowing.
As such, protecting endangered species increases innovation and saves lives in the long term.
As such, we should protect endangered species.