I stand in the firmest opposition possible to the motion, we support zero tolerance policies in school.
Zero tolerance policies are a way in which administrators can push away bad students, denying them their right to education simply because of some abstract and unacceptable policy which they have decided to enforce, even though they have no actual say in it.
Unfortunately, school districts are largely run by lawyers and bureaucrats rather than school teachers themselves.
After you get out of the school and actually get in to the school board and the educational departments and government, all that you see are individuals who do not understand what it takes to be a teacher.
As such, continuing zero tolerance policies defined by these individuals will simply decrease the total amount of education that all people have access to.
I have two arguments in today's debate: first, on the enforcement of punishment and second, on how discretion is important, but first some brief, extraneous rebuttal.
My opponent tells us, right off the top, that they don't need this to defend stupid forms of zero tolerance policies.
Unfortunately, every single form of zero tolerance policy is stupid.
When you have a policy which says that we have zero tolerance for violent depictions in school, you will always see administrators, who want to decrease their liability and not lose their jobs, want to actually pass or and push people who just make finger guns out of the school.
This leads right into my first argument about enforcement.
Administrators should not be afraid to discipline less than policies actually define.
Because we think that lawyers will always think about decreasing liability, will never understand the realities of the school and the classroom itself, it is unlikely that they will pass the best policies for individuals to get an effective education.
As such, these individuals will always be forced to to push problematic policies, which will mean that administrators will push children out of schools in an unacceptable way.
This denies individuals a form of education, which we also think is essential.
Additionally, we think children who have deviancy issues, who have discipline issues, will not be helped by this kind of policy.
I'll discuss this more in my second argument.
Before I get on to that, though, I want to discuss how this also hurts the reporting of these issues as well.
You have a zero tolerance policy where someone will be suspended for two weeks because of, say, a pocket knife in someone's pocket, teachers and peers are incredibly unlikely to report these things.
A liberal teacher who smells weed in someone's locker will not tell an administrator if they know that that child will be denied their education for a meaningful amount of time.
This is incredibly problematic, because we believe that the best form of discipline and punishment is one in which enforcement is constant all the time, in which all individuals are constantly being monitored to guarantee that they're not being problematic, but the actual punishment is not that bad and emphasizes rehabilitation.
Zero tolerance policies do the opposite of that.
My second argument is about how discretion is generally good.
Why is this the case?
It's always better to have a choice.
My opponent talks at length about why drugs should not be in schools, why guns should not be in schools.
Guess what?
Even without zero tolerance policies, we can allow administrators to have the discretion necessary to actually say that you can never have drugs in schools.
This means that if someone's caught with a little bit of weed in their pocket, they can get, say, a day's detention rather than a suspension, which the zero tolerance policy would have.
But if they're found with meth or heroin in their locker, they will always be suspended, not because of some dumb policy, but because the administrator understands that this is the best option possible.
Additionally, we believe that discretion is important in terms of punishment as well.
If someone is not a repeat offender, if someone understands that what they're doing is gonna get them suspended, we believe that discretion is incredibly important and we should not simply punish individuals blindly.
In the cases of people who want to be in school, this denies them their education and is incredibly problematic.
For the deviant who hates school, a three-week suspension in which their parents will never be home because they're at work is essentially a dream and actually incentivizes them to break school policy.
As such, the tolerance policy is incredibly inefficient and ineffective and we should not support it.