I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should increase the use of public spaces.
The worst thing about a public space is the people.
When there's a massive crowd in a public space, not only is it just unpleasant to be there, we also see the destruction of property, an inability for the individuals who try to keep order to effectively keep order, and ultimately just a massive increase in the total costs that have to go into that area.
We've seen it now with the government shutdown.
As more people feel comfortable going into national and state parks and not pay any fees, these parks have been ripped up.
People have not been able to actually keep up with these individuals and, as such, important habitats have been destroyed.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first is the destruction of these areas.
The tragedy of the common is about the common in a british town, that is to say in whatever time before the industrial revolution farmers would allow their cows to graze on the common.
They would consume grass and, ultimately, the area would grow back.
However, when too many farmers let too many cows into the common, it would be destroyed.
The grass would all be ripped up, the grass wouldn't regrow and, ultimately, it would become useless for cow, farmer, and merchant alike.
We see this happening with public spaces.
A few people going there at a time is fine.
Restricted access is absolutely okay.
But when you allow unfettered access for a massive number of people and don't keep a watchful eye, the result is that these areas are ultimately destroyed.
People, even if they stay on the trail, still create noise that drives away animals.
If animals are driven away, plants are less likely to be fertilized, their seeds less likely to be spread and, ultimately, we're going to see the destruction of these areas overall.
But this also assumes that people are good, rule-following individuals, but a lot of the time, they just aren't.
A lot of time what we see is that individuals will go onto this land, will ultimately go into this area, and what they'll do is they'll leave the path.
They'll feed the animals.
They'll take things home with them.
The destruction of these national parks is fundamentally unacceptable, but increasing the use of public spaces would expand and increase the rate at which this destruction occurs, ultimately leaving no access for anyone in the long term.
My second argument is that of resources and cost.
The cost to allow someone into the park is more park rangers, more individuals who have to do trail upkeep.
More often, you have to bring in power tools and construction to actually ensure that there's an effective path for people to walk.
This is incredibly expensive.
We think that the fines that you charge individuals, the fees that you charge people to get into these public spaces in the first place don't actually cover these.
It just limits the total amount of people who get in.
By decreasing costs and increasing the use of these public spaces, the result is that more people will come in and taxpayers will have to spend more money.
It's largely unfair that someone who doesn't use these public spaces subsidize individuals who actually increase their usage of it.
We think it's intrinsic: with the increase of the use of public spaces, there must be a decrease in price.
So not only will you bring in more people, increasing the cost of maintenance, but you also decrease the amount of money that you get from people overall, ultimately leading to a massive amount a massive imbalance in the total amount that is being spent on the park or being used to maintain it.
We think that this ultimately leads to the destruction of these public areas even faster as well, while also charging individuals increased amounts of money for something that they just simply do not support.
Many people don't use these public parks, so charging them more money through tax dollars is simply unfair.
For this reason, we should not increase the use of public spaces.