We should fight global warming.
It is honestly a little unfair to be given this side of the argument given how obvious it is that we should fight global warming.
As such I'm going to take an intent stance.
The model I propose is that we should immediately cease any operations which are causing profound harms to the environment.
This means the expansion of the oil industry should immediately be stopped.
This means that there should be massive tax credits for things like electric cars but also an increase in taxes on things like gas guzzling cars.
Any action which governments can take to meaningfully stop global warming should be adopted.
Two arguments why.
First off that there's an existential threat facing humanity.
The rising sea levels the unpredictable climate harms people in a massive way.
It represents potentially the death of our planet.
Looking through history levels of CO two that we are experiencing today typically occur right before or during ice ages.
Inevitably as the glaciers melt as the planet warms people will die typically the poorest individuals.
But honestly the whole of humanity isn't necessarily threatened.
Because the inability to fight global warming could literally lead to the extension extinction of humanity.
Any arguments for why we should not pursue it in a massive way essentially says that risky extinction is okay simply for capitalist gain.
Additionally though the discourse on global warming proves very clearly that we must act now.
Any argument that we can expand markets slowly and wait for a market solution are horribly naive.
Scientists and environmental agencies the world over have argued that we should have taken action forty or even fifty years ago when we started to understand global warming.
The inaction has forced us to take drastic action in order to solve the current situation.
If we do not take action now it could easily lead to the death of all of humanity and the death of our planet which we think is honestly the worst possible outcome for any individual.
The expansion of markets is never a justification for the potential extinction for humanity.
The second argument we have however is that ecological oppression will occur as a result of global warming.
Even if you believe that global warming can be stopped in thirty or forty years the status quo is oppressing individuals through their situation and in a way that is fundamentally unjust.
First off let's discuss coastal people.
Who lives on the coast?
Typically for poor fishing villages or communities in states like tuvalu where the entire country is only about say ten feet above water at the highest place.
The continuing melting of our glaciers the rising of sea levels destroy these people's homes and pushes them out of their community.
I'm sure someone would argue that wealthy people also live on beaches but they can make accommodations adapt to the situation they can put their house on stilts if need be.
But the poor communities who live on the beaches and coastal communities are being threatened in the status quo and their way of life is being destroyed.
These are communities which have been given the worst lot by their upbringing and by fate over all even pushed into working class villages in areas where they can barely afford food and global warming threatens their way of life.
And threatens their livelihood as fish die as a result of it rising sea temperature.
Additionally though classism and poverty harm people as a force people to be incur greater harms as a result of global warming all over the world individuals who cannot adapt in places like phoenix arizona or las vegas nevada are dying as a result of a hundred fourteen degree temperatures a hundred twenty degree temperatures and have to either move and leave the community behind or die as a result of their poverty.
We think this is fundamentally unjust and as such we should fight global warming.