I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should increase the use of drug testing.
Drug testing is more often than not incredibly abusive and a way in which employers can get power over their employees such as to extract further surplus labor from them and oppress their employees.
I have three arguments for why we should not increase drug testing: first off about the power asymmetry between employer and employee, second about the rights that individuals have against their employer and third about how this harms individuals who are addicted to drugs.
But first a brief some brief rebuttal.
My opponents primary argument is that this will change drug policy because if we see more people being caught with marijuana, more people being caught with drugs, we are far more likely to pass things like comprehensive drug reform.
A few reasons that this is incorrect: first, this sort of argument can broadly be generalized as accelerationism.
If we make the problem so bad that people see it's really really bad, then maybe they'll change their minds.
This argument fails for a few reasons: first it assumes lots of individuals will continue to use drugs at the same rate rather than change the incentives.
We think that a lot of individuals are likely to change their policies in a way which will make it so they won't actually use drugs as often.
This means that they're less likely to be caught, they're actually just likely to feel less free and have fewer rights against their employee employers as I'll discuss later.
Second though, we think that individuals who are caught using drugs and are likely to be subsequently reported to the police, lose a huge amount of power.
The way in which you get comprehensive drug reform and comprehensive drug policy is when there's an active discourse among members and cohorts in common forums.
We think that the job is a great place where individuals can exchange ideas.
However if someone loses their job and potentially goes to prison they will have no political efficacy.
This actually harms the ability to pass good drug policy.
Finally, we think that accelerationist arguments largely just ignore the reality of the situation.
They cause considerably more harm than good.
They depend on trying to predict the future and decide how it will actually play out rather than just working to make the world a better place through good drug policy.
Now my first argument is about the power asymmetry between employer and employee.
We think that in a lot of situations how you're perceived on the job depends on your relationship with their employer.
It depends on how you feel about your boss and how your boss feels about you.
Now there's a few problems with this: first we think that individuals caught with drugs may be let off the hook based on preconceived biases.
If a white man is employed by another white man and they see one another as common individuals, they're less likely to enforce drug policy against them.
Less likely to fire these individuals and more likely to simply push off these sort of punishments.
As such my opponent's arguments can never come to fruition and we'll we'll actually see a greater racial and sexual bias in regards to drug policy.
But secondly we think that individuals who are caught may not lose their job but maybe threatened by their employees with the fact that they now have this information.
Is incredibly problematic as we think that you need to have rights against your employers and should not be afraid on the job.
Now my second argument is about the rights you have as a private individual.
Because we think that the your employer doesn't have the right to to check what you're doing outside of work.
If you come to work high or drunk the employer should be able to fire you.
But a drug test is not necessary for that.
It tests if you've been high in the last week or the last month.
We think that you have the right as a private citizens to consume things in your home and if it is not affecting your work your employer has no right to punish you based on what you do on your own time.
Anything less is a gross violation of our privacy rights.
My third and final argument is how this affects addicts.
We think that individuals who are affected to marijuana, affected the drugs, who maybe able to put it off for a week for a singular drug test, may be harmed profoundly if drug tests are common.
This means they're more likely to lose their jobs, turn towards stealing and lose political efficacy.
For this reason we should not increase drug testing.