I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should legalize cell phone use while driving.
Cell phone use while driving leads to far more accidents and far more death than individuals who drive undistracted.
Government stepped in in the last ten to twenty years and decided that when individuals use their cell phones they cause considerably more damage than they can understand.
Undoing this incredibly important work does little more than put the general population in danger and increases accidents by an unimaginable threshold.
With that, I have two arguments.
First, why these bans are just and essential and secondly, why regulation will inevitably be unenforceable.
So we think that bans are just if there's if they fit one of two criteria.
First, if the action cannot be understood completely by the one who's taking it and second, if there are third party harms.
All that we have to prove in this argument is that using a cell phone while driving fails one of these two criteria.
If it fails both, not only is a ban just it is essential and the obligation of government is to step in and undo this action.
Now we think that individuals cannot understand the implications of their own cell phone use.
When they use a cell phone they don't understand that the likelihood of a crash is multitudes higher than if they weren't using their cell phone.
They cannot understand their entire situation around them, nor understand the statistics surrounding it.
Every individual sees the statistics about cell phone use and says that's not me, those are those bad drivers.
We would say because of this bias, this intrinsic bias that is honestly unmitigable by any amount of information, allowing individuals to use their cell phones while driving will always lead to more crashes.
But furthermore, given that they cannot understand the importance of not using their cell phones, failing to ban cell phone use while driving puts individuals at risk and fails in the government's obligation to them.
Secondly, we think that there are profound third party harms of using your cell phone while driving.
When you get in an accident you harm both yourself but you also harm whoever you hit.
A lot of the time cell phone use is incredibly dangerous because you hit pedestrians or you hit people on bikes.
Although it might be very easy to see the car right in front of you, it's not easy to see the bike to your right, the protesting trying to cross the street.
These are the people who will die when they are hit particularly at high speeds and when people are not paying attention and don't have enough time to break properly.
These third party harms are unjustifiable, lead to loss of life, loss of property, loss of family, which can never be justified simply because someone needs to talk on the phone.
No amount of advanced technology, no advanced of hands no advancement and hands-free technology will ever change this.
Studies show that even hands-free technology still distracts drivers by a huge amount and causes them to get in far more accidents than they would be otherwise.
At this point, government must ban cell phone use or at least continue to ban cell phone use while driving otherwise people will lose their lives and get in far more accidents.
My second argument is that regulation is necessarily unenforceable.
It's incredibly difficult to understand the nuances of when someone is using a cell phone while driving.
It's hard to see if they have the cell phone in their lap, if they're looking down at the cell phone.
Pressing the buttons on the cell phone is even more difficult for a cop to prove it in court.
We would say it's a bad system in which we simply trust cops when they say this person was committing a crime but we would also say it's impossible to get evidence that someone was at a certain moment in time on their phone or talking on the cell phone rather than talking to someone in their car.
At this point we think that regulation will always fail.
It becomes an open market an open season where individual get in far more crashes and simply violate the law at their will.
At this point, we should not legalize cell phone use while driving.