Suicide should be a criminal offense.
When deciding what government should ban and what government should support, it is incredibly clear that suicide should be banned outright.
Obviously, governments cannot always control whether individuals want to take their own lives.
Suicide is a sad fact of life that many individuals must grapple with on a routine basis.
However, when government steps in and makes a clear statement that suicide is never justifiable, we think that individuals are less likely to take this action against themselves and are far more likely to find support, both in the state and in their community.
Three arguments to support this motion, but first a model.
We would say that anyone who attempts to take their own lives should be put on trial with the discretion of a judge.
The judge can decide what to do with them.
We would say the default punishment should be a few years of rehab and psychiatric evaluation paid for by the state.
We would say that this will allow the judge the best options to ensure that individuals put themselves in safety and out of harm's way.
Three arguments: first, it gives the state more tools.
When someone has gotten to the point of suicide, they've found that nothing in the world justifies their own life.
They typically have reached out and been either unable or unable to afford a particular action or unable to gain solace from a particular form of therapy.
Unfortunately, many individuals who take their own lives are not exhaustive in their search, not exhaustive in trying all the different options which could have otherwise prevented their own suicide.
Making suicide a criminal offense allows government to step in and ensure a holistic set of tools have been used to dissuade this individual from taking their own life.
They can require individuals to take antidepressant medication, they can require them to see a psychiatrist, they can even put them in rehab for a bit to ensure that they are no longer self-harming.
As such, we think suicidal individuals will have their lives saved.
This has the immediate effect of guaranteeing that people don't take their own lives, which we think they typically regret in the long term, if they attempted the suicide, that is, but also helps their entire family as a suicide always harms the people around the victim of the suicide as well.
Now my second argument is that having suicide be a criminal offense prevents fraud.
We think that life insurance contracts are essential for a large part of the economy, but we'd also say that it would be unjust to ever allow someone to use a life insurance policy upon taking their own life.
We think that individuals would be far more likely to be coerced into taking their own life or otherwise attempt to commit insurance fraud through suicide.
We would say that this is likely to raise the premiums on everyone else as insurance is always based on using the money from individuals who aren't using their insurance policy and transferring it to people who are using their insurance policy, but also simply be an abuse of a system which we think is essential for protecting individual's families.
And as such, government should make it a criminal offense.
My third and final argument is about moral signaling.
When government takes particular action and makes certain decrees, individuals listen.
Although it's unlikely to assuage everyone or change everyone's mind, making suicide a criminal offense is far more likely to signal to suicidal individuals that they ought to seek help.
We think that government remaining silent on the topic of suicide is likely to make individuals feel even more alone, essentially feel less guided, and have fewer pressures to not take their own life.
If government is taking any action which minimizes the likelihood of suicide, we would say that this is justifiable and essential, and as such, suicide should be a criminal offense.