We should legalize doping in sports.
Although the rules against doping in sports have correct intentions the relative safety of anabolic steroids and other performance enhancing drugs makes these sort of legislations and these sort of rules fundamentally unnecessary.
With that in mind we propose the following model that all sports leagues should allow doping in sports with clear exceptions when drugs have drastic impacts on an individual's health.
That is to say if a particular drug will cause immediate harm to one's body it should be banned.
But in all other cases it should be legal.
Two arguments to support this motion.
First off on the external legitimacy of sports the purpose of sports is entertainment.
Athletes are paid individuals who essentially work for the public in order to entertain them.
They have no further value they prove nothing besides the fact that people like to see extreme exhibitions of skill.
Additionally individuals like better athletes.
The better a team is the more fans it typically has.
When the seattle seahawks were on a run just a few years ago their fan base swelled.
In the same way the golden state warriors one of the most successful teams in basketball at this time have a huge fan base that have grown each year because of the success of their team.
If there are better athletes the entire system is more entertaining every single game is more entertaining and the extreme exhibitions of athleticism such as massive dunks incredible runs are far more prevalent.
Doping easily allows for better games first off because it just makes better athletes.
And people can run faster jump higher.
It will be more impressive and people want to watch sports more and be more entertained.
Furthermore doping allows for more equality among the game.
In the status quo a huge amount of athleticism and personal stamina and fitness is based on one's genetics.
The tallest people succeed because of their genetics and because of the situation in which they were raised.
Steroids can equalize this field somewhat by allowing individuals who are not inherently or it genetically predisposed predisposed to athleticism to compete at a higher level.
This will make the game far more entertaining and just make the purpose of sports far more prevalent and far more successful in entertaining individuals.
The second argument is about the internal legitimacy of sports.
In the status quo the people who can hide doping the best win awards.
During the last winter olympic games there were massive scandals as russian sprinters and runners were proven to have engaged in doping to win awards.
However little was done to punish them because they'd already gotten these awards.
In the same way many athletes in the baseball hall of fame are believed to have doped but cannot be punished ex post facto.
In the status quo it's just who is best at hiding their steroids that get awards.
By removing these rules completely it will allow all individuals to engage in the same level and not just the risk takers to get awards or make their team win.
Secondly though this solves for false positives.
In many cases there are real uses for the drugs that enhance athlete's performances.
Pain killers and steroids are very useful for actually preventing disease or preventing this ability in the long term.
Additionally in many leagues things like alcoholic cough medicine can be seen as performance enhancing drugs.
Many shooters have been banned because they drank before the game even though they were not even buzzed.
What this will do is will make it so no one will be kicked out of a sport because of a false positive if your movie sort of rules that it improves the internal legitimacy of the game as it makes it more fair and makes fewer people excluded.
For this reason we should legalize doping in sports.