We should abolish marriage.
Marriage is an antiquated system with heavy religious undertones which has no role in our modern life and particularly no role in government action.
When government recognizes marriage it makes one of two options.
It either accepts that it is a religious institution and makes it purely for those religious individuals or it allows all individuals to get married and as such offends huge portions of the population.
As such we would support the model that all governments should not recognize marriage.
Individuals can get married however they want.
They can go to a church.
They can go to a temple.
Whatever religious building they prefer and go through the ceremony but when government offers tax cuts and further representation through marriage that is when we see profound harms against the general population.
I have two arguments today.
The first is that it is an illogical system and second that there's no incentive for governments to recognize marriage.
Marriage is fundamentally illogical for the vast majority of individuals.
This is because it is impossible to truly have consent for all future actions.
What marriage is a contract.
It prevents individuals from expressing their autonomy deciding to leave at a a particular time.
And when government recognizes that it makes it even more difficult for individuals to separate themselves from a particular partner.
As such it restricts consent and makes it so an individual is consenting for the rest of their lives.
Marriage vows include till death do us part and it is impossible for any individual to consent for that much time.
Excuse me content consent in the moment for all future action.
As such we would say that government in recognizing the system and forcing individuals who go through courts of law if they want to get married or stop being married is essentially entrenching unjustifiable norms against individuals and making it far more difficult for them to leave the system if they so choose.
Additionally when government recognizes marriage it pushes individuals to get married.
This is for two reasons.
First we think government action does affect social social opinions and the actions of the general people.
Additionally when there are tax benefits and other social benefits from getting married individuals will be married when government recognizes marriage.
We would say that if if the government stops recognizing marriage individuals will only be married if they truly believe in the institution.
And it is additionally illogical given that they're entrenched norms that surround marriage they're inherently patriarchal or otherwise problematic.
As such government should take its hands completely off the system.
My second argument is that there's no incentive for government to actually recognize marriage.
First marriage ties people down to particular areas in a problematic way.
Government wants individuals to leave their city or their state if they think there are better opportunity somewhere else.
If everyone were truly mobile and was willing to relocate for jobs or for social communities the world would be a much more efficient place as markets would be able to find people to fill jobs easier and individuals will be able to try a variety of areas to decide which they prefer the best.
Additionally marriage support things like fertility and home making in a way that government actually has no benefit in increasing.
In the status quo there isn't incentive to decrease fertility rates as the labor source primarily becomes automated and because the dependent population will no longer have to work.
Increasing fertility does little besides making the change into a welfare based system more difficult and as such government should abolish marriage.
Thank you.