I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should subsidize financial advisors.
Financial advisors are someone who just tells you what to do with your money.
If you have literally no idea how to invest in the stock market or use your money effectively, then financial advisers are useful.
Throughout the nineteen hundreds, people used them all the time to securely invest their money and ensure that they'd get at least some payback into their old age.
However, the vast majority of financial advisors don't do much more than tell you basic facts about investing, and now that we have the internet, now that we have data that allows us to truly understand how this money works, we think that financial advisers just aren't worth it.
Subsidizing financial advisors would be a massive waste of money and ultimately would decrease the capacity for our government to operate effectively.
With that in mind, I have three arguments: first is that financial advisers simply have useless info.
If you ask the average hedge fund manager, if you ask the average investment banker, if you ask the average financial adviser what stocks are going to blow up tomorrow, they'll have no idea.
If you ask them, " how do I best invest my money, " they'll either tell you the common facts, which is: put your money into a mutual fund, put it into an index fund, and let it just grow without touching it ; or they'll feed you a line telling you that certain companies are next to blow up and that you should invest your money now.
Here's the thing.
If someone had that private information, there's one of two possibilities: either they're conducting insider trading and they know that a company is about to release a new product or otherwise be very financially viable, in which case they really should not be giving that advice out and they're making you an accomplice to the crime or, alternatively, they're simply lying to you, cause they have no idea.
Because if a stock were about to blow up and the common person could figure that out, people would already be buying it.
Billion dollar companies, whose entire purpose is to invest in the stock market, would've already bought massive amounts of that stock, putting at a it at a price where you could not effectively get any benefit.
Essentially, that it would not they would increase the price now so that even if it blew up later on, we wouldn't actually see a price increase.
As a result, the average person would get no benefit.
This clearly demonstrates that most financial advisers are just lying when they tell you where to put your money.
Alternatively, they're telling you common facts: put it into these mutual funds.
Save your money as much as possible, in which case, the internet would work just as effectively.
It's incredibly unclear why we should pay someone simply to spout facts that someone could look up.
It would be unacceptable if we subsidize individuals who just read off wikipedia to people, because they can do that themselves.
Financial advisers in the twenty first century are exactly that, people who can read the internet and make it sound pretty and are paid exorbitant fee as a result of this.
This brings me to my second argument: it's a waste of tax dollars.
Even if we assume that financial advisers were effective, we think that we shouldn't be taking the average person's money and giving it directly to them, cause recognize that all that a subsidy is is that you pay people extra money to do their job.
The market has already decided what financial advisers' time is worth, how much money to pay them.
By subsidizing this sort of trade by giving them more money, all that we're doing is paying them extra money that the market has decided isn't what they deserve.
This is effectively a command economy, the opposite of our capitalist marketplace that has worked so effectively for us, and we think that it will is simply unfair to the average person when we could be putting this money toward schools, hospitals, or a variety of other causes which would be far more effective.
For this reason, we should not subsidize financial advisors.