I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should abolish the security council veto.
In the status quo, the security council has a profound amount of power over all policies and declarations which go through the united nations.
This is the best system possible as it reduces the total amount of infighting and anger which occurs through the united nations.
The purpose of the united nations is not to pass a variety of policies and be a global super government.
It is to create treaties and create cooperation between states.
By having a security council veto where the largest states can stop problematic policies from going through, what we do is guarantee that the united nations fulfills its goals and purpose.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but first, some brief rebuttal.
My opponent spends a considerable amount of time talking about the principles underlying the united nations.
I have two major responses to this: first, the principles which they which they talk about at length and which they support unconditionally are not the actual principles which were created under the united nations charter.
The purpose of the united nations is not to pass oppressive policies or to pass political policies in any way, shape or form.
Their purpose is to condemn the worst offenders around the world and if there is no other option, to take action.
We believe they should always be the last resort and as such, a principle of rapid and immediate and constant response is not an effective one.
Secondly, though, we'd say the principles don't actually matter.
If you buy my understanding of the principles or if you buy my opponent's understanding of the principles, it doesn't matter, because we should be fighting for the best world possible, fighting for pragmatic outcomes rather than principled outcomes which do not actually make people's lives better.
This brings me to my two arguments: first, on the effects on large nations.
We believe that what this does is guarantee that large nations will be happy enough to stay and continue supporting the united nations.
What do we mean by this?
In my opponent's world, large nations do one of two things.
First, they might leave.
They have a variety of alternatives which they can turn to in order to continue their power.
China has a variety of alliances which allow them to continue their hegemony.
The united states has nato and the organization of american states, and every single country on the security council has a variety of different allies they can turn to to maintain their power while leaving the UN.
All this means is if large nations leave the UN, it just weakens the power of smaller states which they had before, making the declarations which might now go through effectively worthless.
The second potential outcome is that large nations might attempt to control smaller nations to an incredibly problematic degree.
If china is now pressuring the states that surround it economically and politically, it means that they lose a huge amount of their sovereignty and discursive ability as well.
This is incredibly problematic as the security council states will pressure the small states into saying things they don't believe, making them act undemocratically and oppressively towards their own people.
My second argument is the effect on small states, because we believe this will create huge amounts of infighting between smaller states in the united nations, as they are now passing policies which have dramatic implications.
If they are targeted by the UN, they're likely to leave.
It is unlikely unlikely that the UN will conduct large-scale ground operations against any state unless they are committing genocide and as such, there's very little risk to leaving if you're being targeted through declarations and hollow threats.
But additionally, we think this will generally just lead to worse relations between states.
If the UN is now a political entity which is passing horrific policies, it will come as an object of opposition towards groups like nato and other international bodies which see will see it as oppressive and problematic.
For this reason, we should we should not abolish the security council veto.