We should cancel the affordable care act.
The affordable care act has a lot of good ideas at its very core but its implementation was inherently faulty and the individuals who now support it are few and far between.
Given that it is democratically unpopular, largely unsuccessful, and only harms the market it is very clear that we should cancel the affordable care act.
To this end we would propose the following model: that the entirety of the act be repealed, that any bills that were repealed as a result of the affordable care act be put back in place.
That is to say any bills or policies that were rendered pointless or otherwise uneffective due to the affordable care act will be put in place to guarantee effective regulation of insurance companies that existed before the affordable care act.
I have three arguments for why the affordable care act should be abolished.
First it is inherently destabilized.
At the time of its writing there were certain poison pills put into the affordable care act that made it essentially null and void when taken into the long term.
Risk corridors were a policy put in place that required the government to compensate insurance companies based on their loss.
This means that we still had to pay the entirity of the former insurance policies that already existed out of the taxpayer coffers but instead of it being accrued to single individuals who got better health care due to better healthcare costs beforehand we now effectively had to subsidize the benefits of the richest individuals.
This is inherently unfair and effectively made the affordable care act twice as expensive as it ought to have been.
But we'd further say that given that the individual mandate is currently repealed, that the current administration has fought to destroy the affordable care act by all means necessary, it is hugely ineffective.
Each dollar that we waste on the affordable care act given that it has no long term solvency is money that could otherwise be spent in other ways.
We could spend it on schooling, health care, effective healthcare or we could just give it back to the taxpayers and let them use into the market.
The result of the current system the defanged policy put forth by the current administration effectively destroys the healthcare system and inherently requires us to cancel the affordable care act.
Now my second argument is that the affordable care act is unpopular.
The sitting president got to power on an antiobama platform.
This was largely due to xenophobic policies and xenophobic ideas put forth by president trump when he was a candidate but it was also due to the health care policies and the perceived overstep that many individuals saw from the obama administration.
Because policies ought be reflective of the populace, because we believe that government must be responsive to the needs of the people, undemocratic policies unpopular policies ought to be repealed.
At the point where a president can be elected simply on his opposition to a particular policy, that policy must be repealed.
The mandate belongs to the current administration to remove it outright.
My third argument is about market distortion.
In the status quo, things like medication prices and insurance prices are not representative of supply and demand.
We see medication prices are artificially declined.
This is inherently problematic because as supply and demand are equilibrated we guarantee the most innovation and the most creation of particular drugs ultimately increasing the total access to effective healthcare for individuals in all walks of life.
Given that the affordable care act does not compensate drug producers for the inherent barriers put in place by the affordable care act, it ought be appealed to insure that markets can work effectively.
For this reason, we should cancel the affordable care act.