I stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should introduce year-round schooling.
Year-round schooling is incredibly problematic because it ultimately doesn't represent how people live their lives.
If you look at most jobs, except for really the lowest paid jobs, people get a few weeks vacation.
They usually get christmas time off.
They usually get major holidays off.
As such, everyone gets a break, but this program that my opponent proposes, year-round schooling, ultimately denies that for children.
It makes it so they can't take any sort of break, which we think is incredibly problematic.
With that in mind, I have two arguments but, first, some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that this will be better for learning and better for just being an effective student.
They say that you forget things over the summer and that you are far more likely to have trouble in school and trouble focusing if you have this sort of summer vacation.
This stands in direct confrontation with my first argument, the importance of relaxation.
It' been found that students who sleep more, that is to say, come into school far more relaxed because they got a good night's sleep, actually learn considerably better.
We think that this also extends to things like summer vacation.
When I spend a few months being able to run around, be happy, we think that the result is one in which people are able to focus in school far more effectively.
We see, also, that healthier kids, kids who don't have trouble with the jitters, who don't have trouble focusing because of a variety of other distractions, also do better in school.
But summer is a time which most kids lose weight, also become more healthy.
As such, we think that if you get rid of summer vacation, kids lose relaxation.
They lose fun time.
They lose exercise.
This makes learning so much more difficult.
The result is, then, a world in which children don't learn as effectively.
They're stressed more often, and stress can lead to things like eating disorders, mental disorder, physical disorders, less healthy children overall as a result of a complete lack of relaxation and sleep.
By having summer vacation, we allow the students to blow off steam, learn habits which are important, ultimately, just have a good time.
My second argument is about costs, because we think that this costs more for both the school district and for parents.
I'm gonna start with parents because it stands in direct refutation to what my opponent says about how this is better for parents because, during the summer, they have to hire a child care professional.
We think this is fundamentally untrue.
Why is this the case?
There's simply not enough money to pay for year-round schooling without other cuts.
We think that you'd likely spend less time in school every single day if you had year-round schooling.
The total amount of schooling wouldn't really change, but even the current school day is pretty hard for parents.
Working a nine to five means that you drop your kids off on your way to work, and then you try to pick your kids up a few hours before you actually are supposed to get off work.
For parents who are unable to do that, they usually pay the school or pay an after-school program to watch them for about an hour.
If you cut down the total amount of time kids are at school, we think you'll have to pay for more after-school care every single day or someone to drop your kids off every single day.
The result then is that you spend way more money in this regard.
We think that during the summer, it's easier to tell your kids just go out and play, go to the pool, spend time with their friends and, as such, you save money on childcare.
Alternatively, if there's a group of friends, you can send them all to one of the parent's house every single day of the week, ultimately sharing the load of childcare.
Having this day-to-day stress, being unable to actually operate throughout the entire year will likely cost parents more money and make it harder for them to have a good quality of life.
But secondly, we think it's just too expensive for school districts.
They can't pay a year-round salary for teachers, for buildings.
They get money for renting it out.
As such, we think that you lose a lot teachers, lose effective curriculum, lose the money that's essential in an already underfunded education system.
For this reason, we should not introduce year-round schooling.