We should ban algorithmic trading.
Algorithmic trading represents a perversion of the common system of investment which our market depends upon.
Quite simply, algorithmic trading threatens the entirety of our economy as well as the personal fortunes of those investors who decide to use it.
The more that the united states allows algorithmic trading to continue, the greater difficulty other individuals will have in investing in the market.
You will see large-scale movements of capital away from markets which allow algorithmic trading, threatening the whole of the economy in which algorithmic trading is not banned.
As such, we support the following model: that all western liberal democracies ban algorithmic trading in stock markets.
We're fine with it in secondary markets.
When someone puts a particular item up for sale, an algorithm can be used to grab it as soon as it's up, but algorithmic trading for the purchase and sale of stocks is incredibly problematic.
We have two arguments in today's debate.
The first is about the disastrous consequences that individuals face through algorithmic trading, and the second is how algorithmic trading threatens the very purpose of the market.
First, on how this harms certain individuals or organizations.
Algorithmic trading cannot be perfectly programmed into any particular system.
Every single program has bugs.
Every single variable can be misused by malicious individuals to increase their personal fortune.
For instance, imagine a system in which an algorithm is put in place which takes interest into account.
If a government announces zero percent interest, or even negative interest in the case of a country like japan, this could easily affect the algorithm incredibly problematically.
It can cause massive investments one way or another simply because the program failed to round a number correctly, or simply because the program glitched out at a particular time.
This threatens the entire wealth of individuals, as the algorithm could put their whole portfolio into a failing stock as it continues to fall.
This has two disastrous consequences.
First, we think the government has an obligation to protect the individuals who would otherwise use this algorithm.
We would say that they cannot insure any particular portfolio unless the portfolio is taken through identity theft.
And as such, these individuals will always be liable in paying their own money in order to recover their portfolio.
The second disastrous effect is that many organizations could use algorithmic trading.
Many pensions and retirement funds are invested in mutual funds or other investment organization firms and if they were to use algorithmic trading and lose all of their money, entire spheres of humanity could lose the whole of their investment, and the market could be displaced massively if a a multibillion dollar firm uses a faulty algorithm.
Now my second argument is that this distorts the purpose of markets.
There are a couple purpose purposes of markets, but many firms and the government find it useful in order to get information about particular firms.
When investors cannot actually invest and algorithms are the whole of the investment of the investor that currently exist, there's no information to be gained.
Algorithms depend on only public information and as such, the government cannot use it to learn things effectively.
Similarly, the market depends on individuals keeping their investments and having a large cost to change from one stock to another.
As algorithmic trading becomes more popular, services which have almost no cost to go from one stock to another will become more popular.
These algorithms will trade at massive paces, skimming dollars off of stocks, excuse me, skimming cents off of stocks, never allowing individuals to invest in the market effectively.
This pushes out all middle-class individuals, all individuals who are not part of a massive firm who can control the whole of the market.
This is incredibly problematic and as such, we should ban algorithmic trading.