We should ban cosmetic surgery.
As far as the medical field goes there are few practices as problematic as cosmetic surgery.
It depends on pushing problematic beauty standards on individuals and causing them to take irreversible action to change their body to fit in with society's expectations.
Because we think that this field is inherently problematic we would propose the following model: that all western liberal democracies should ban cosmetic surgery.
As a brief overview, I would like to discuss the role of government in making policy and stopping problematic action.
Unfortunately it is impossible for individuals to meaningfully control the industry as a whole.
No individual consumer is a price taker, a price maker, or a legislator in and of themselves.
The government is the only actor who can step in to prevent societal harm and societal practices which are problematic to actually end.
If cosmetic surgery is seen as inherently bad, is seen as inherently problematic, government has an obligation to step in.
First off, simply to increase the utility of everyone who would otherwise use cosmetic surgery, but secondly, if there are profound third party harms as a result of cosmetic surgery, government has an obligation to step in as is the only arbiter who can stop third party harms from occurring.
Two arguments for why we should ban cosmetic surgery.
First, there are profound individual issues.
It is impossible to meaningfully consent to cosmetic surgery for two reasons.
First, it is dependent on societal beauty standards.
Individuals change their body because they feel like their nose is not the right size, because they don't like the way their ears look.
This isn't because of some inherent standard or inherent human idea of beauty, it's simply because society has pushed them to feel this way.
Honestly if individuals lived without profound media presence and without profound connectedness, they would likely see themselves as attractive.
The people around them, their family, their friends, typically would reflect their beauty standards.
But western ideology and particularly white beauty standards are pushed on many individuals who feel that they're ugly.
But consent is further diminished by the fact that people cannot consent to the long term effects of cosmetic surgery.
The losing a facial emotions, the inability to predict what will happen after cosmetic surgery, the varied likelihood of a mishap occurring during the surgery means that they do not consent to the ultimate result.
Without meaningful consent the action is inherently illegitimate and government must step in to stop it.
Second though, there is a false reliance on this sort of surgery to fix harms that don't actually exist.
When cosmetic surgery is not used to solve meaningful harms to society, not and does not meaningfully improve people's lives, is essential that the government stop it when consent is not present.
We will not ban cosmetic surgery and and when things like cleft lips occur, but when cosmetic surgery is purely cosmetic it must stop.
Now the second argument is that there are societal issues around cosmetic surgery.
First off, it pushes beauty standards.
The individual implications of cosmetic surgery are likely the most profound in this round.
If you believe that individuals are caught up in these beauty standards and make horrible decisions as a result that's enough to ban cosmetic surgery.
But additionally when individuals get cosmetic surgery they subscribe to these beauty standards.
If you think these beauty standards are in any way pervasive and problematic, continuing to allow cosmetic surgery simply reinforces them.
Secondly though, we think that the sort of repression occurs in a very problematic way.
Individuals who don't fit white standards of beauty, individuals in poverty who are less likely to be able to afford better cosmetic surgeons and and far more likely to face mishaps are going to be hurt the most by these sort of policies and as such we should ban cosmetic surgery because it hurts people who are otherwise repressed in our society.
Thank you