We should abolish the presidential pardon.
The presidential pardon is unethical for three main reasons: first is about justice.
We think that victims rights are violated by presidential pardons in four main ways.
First, victims never find out what happened when a pardon takes place before a trial occurs.
This is problematic because victims have a right to know what happened to them and their family.
We allow for the actual airing of truth to occur in the criminal justice system when we get rid of the presidential pardons, which we think is an essential part of our system of law.
Truth must be pursued, law must be pursued, and understanding is good for all parties.
Secondly, though, we think that victims can never confront the person who harmed them.
This is incredibly problematic as it reduces the ability to have catharsis and to reduce pain in meaningful ways.
Person never even stands trial, which reduces the ability to actually fulfill the victims' rights.
The second reason that victims' rights are violated is because victims have a right to retribution.
If we look at morality and ask why enough times, we eventually get to some base intuitions.
This is the base of where morality is from.
We think there are some base intuition of retribution that we all, in some sense, share, that we want we want this to occur through the criminal justice system.
We believe that the state has an obligation to enforce this enforce this retribution for two reasons: first, enforcing justice and retribution is the basis of the criminal justice system, and second, the justice system is formed to fulfill the will of the people who desire this retribution to happen.
The third reason the victims' rights are violated is that it violates the right to recourse.
We think the victims can never receive things like monetary compensation through presidential pardons, which is bad for two reasons.
First, they deserve this resource because owed to them and second, they might need this compensation because they were harmed, whether it was money that was stolen or something that was taken away from them.
The fourth reasons victims' rights are violated is because they cannot actually determine if the individual they're accusing is the one who did this harm against them.
We think that presidential pardons essentially remove any possibility for the court to figure out if this person is not guilty and if they need to keep searching for the person who committed the crime.
This means that the actual person who committed the crime could go free.
My second argument is that it violates the principles of our system of justice.
We think it's inconsistent with the ideal of equal protection because it provides a system of protection for individuals based on what the president feels.
It is unjust for them to pick and choose as they see fit.
It is particularly unjust as well because we think that people with political ties are far more likely to get pardons.
If you look at sheriff arpaio or if you look at the pardoning of nixon, each of these had a political end to their pardon.
At best, it's only people with political ties who can actually contact the president and get this benefit.
We also think it violates a system of checks and balances because they're essential features in a stable society, but there's no real check on presidential power in terms of the criminal justice system.
They can straight out ignore the justice and the judicial branch however they see fit, due to presidential pardons.
My third argument is it largely leads to worse outcomes.
We think that it creates distrust in the political system as people feel betrayed by whatever politician actually betrays the trust of the people and lets a criminal go.
We also think it causes harms to society as it minimizes political deterrence, which we think is essential to prevent things like corruption in politics or otherwise faking votes.
It further reduces faith in the justice system as well, as people feel like they've been robbed of the justice that is due to them.
This means people are less likely to participate in the justice system.
Finally, we think it means the guilty are far more likely to go free.
We don't think that presidents are actually good at making decisions based on the societal good.
They mostly make it for political reasons and as such, this means that more guilty people will go free and continue to commit crimes.
For this reason, we should abolish the presidential pardon.