I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end progressive taxation.
The system of taxes that we have now largely favors progressive taxation.
The most extreme people in our society propose things that they call the fair tax or the flat tax recognizing that these are largely regressive that taking fifty percent of a poor person's income and taking only two percent of a very wealthy person's income probably is not a just system.
But my opponent takes it a step farther.
He says that we should end all progressive taxation.
He says that we should take away the capacity for people in poverty to ever pay their way, to ever be happy and ever be efficacious.
He does this a few ways.
He first talks about how progressive taxation is inherently immoral, that those who are wealthy deserve everything that is come to them.
They really haven't cooperated or worked with others to get where they are.
There is never in the history of the world been someone who becomes wealthy without the support of others.
In ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of cases, individuals who become wealthy did it by either exploiting or working with other people.
We think that the wealthiest people largely exploited workers, exploited natural resources and took advantage of their power and their influence in a way that the average person simply does not have access to.
Furthermore, even in the rare cases where someone acted justly to get their money, even when they actually worked in a way that did not require other people's support.
The consumers were still individuals who are the from the average situation.
No one became rich by selling only to the richest people on earth.
There's never been a caviar vender who has done all the work by themselves, became fabulously wealthy selling only to the rich but even if there were, we think they'd still owe a debt of gratitude and a debt that they have to repay to individuals in poverty due to the fact that the individuals they sell to exploited or worked with individuals in poverty.
That is to say the entire system is so interconnected we think that all capital belongs to all people.
The only reason we allow for inequality within our system is the efficiency that it can sometimes bring by rewarding certain skills, by incentivizing certain behavior.
But we think that in any way that we can we should try to equilibrate the system.
We should allow individuals to access their this money even if they did not intrinsically or directly work for it.
But what's even more meaningful is that my opponent talks about this as though we take this money and just give it straight to the poor.
He doesn't talk about the fact that the government is the one who gets this money and we think that every person, particularly the wealthiest, have an obligation to the rich.
We think that things like defense budgets largely protect the wealthiest people from attacks, largely protect them from losing their company or losing their country compared to the poorest people who would be the same and regardless of the regime that's in power.
We think that things like roads, we think that construction which largely happens in wealthier areas always preferences the rich and ergo they must pay in more to our system and we must have a progressive tax system.
My second argument is that of efficiency because we think the progressive taxation is just far more efficient than taxing the poor.
Why is this the case?
First, if you tax the poor more we think that the general result is that people turn to crime more often.
If I can't put food on the table now imagine taking more money from me and saying this is how we're going to fund our government.
I'm going to turn to crime.
I'm going to turn the violence.
I'm going to refuse to get a job that actually pays taxes and it's all the money under the table.
The result is one in which tax revenue goes down because either people either turn to crime or simply get their money under the table overall.
The alternative is one in which we simply just cut the budget of the government massively.
We think that the vested powers in the military mean that this would largely come from things like social spending, largely come from education infrastructure which we think is also essential to our economy allowing people to survive and live a good quality of life.
For this reason, we should not end progressive taxation.