I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should introduce a pollution tax.
Although pollution is obviously a bad thing, attempting to tax it will likely be met with incredible amounts of backlash and will harm impoverished communities who already have been dealt a losing hand.
To this end I have three arguments for why a pollution tax is the worst tool for fighting global warming.
Now my first argument is about companies leaving states that employ a pollution tax.
Why is this the case?
Companies will always operate where it is cheapest to do so.
There's already incredibly low skilled labor in the developing states where companies may transfer.
However, the only reason they haven't moved now is largely because individuals in developed states have already created infrastructure which allows for them to operate effectively.
However, if we increase their operating costs to the tune of about a billion dollars a year, they will go overseas.
They will create this infrastructure in developing states and use them to pump out the sort of smog and fossil fuels.
Why is this incredibly bad?
First, we think it's unfair to push these smog producing individuals, these greenhouse greenhouse gas producing individuals on the global poor.
If the incidence of corporation, as to say, the total density of corporations in a particular area is incredibly high and they all create incredible amounts of pollution such that they had to leave develop states who have implemented a pollution tax, we think that they will cause incredible amounts of harm to individuals in developing states.
They're far more likely to get things like asthma, have to suffer from smog, have animals and crops die on them.
Furthermore though, we think that these states largely have worse environmental regulation.
This means that the total amount of pollution will increase both in terms of smog and health causing or health harming chemicals but also just in in terms of the total amount of global warming.
A ton of COTwo produced in china is just as bad as a ton of COTwo produced in america and as such, if we push individuals to other states and they do not build clean forms of energy or clean forms of production, they will cause more harm than the alternative.
Now my second argument is how this harms small communities.
There are many small communities in developed states that depend upon the production of smog producing manufacturing.
In oregon there are many communities that depend on coal or depend on forestry to make their money.
This isn't just about having a job, this is about their entire culture.
Many stores are themed around these sort of things.
They depend on the total amount of lumber that comes in every day.
Instead of having the more crafts shops they have more carpenters.
They have more paper makers.
These businesses will be destroyed if we implament this kind of tax.
We'll see that small communities that depend on a large central business will be totally wiped out.
These people have already been harmed by the fact that they have been pushed into poverty to empower certain corporations destroying their entire way of life is incredibly problematic.
My third argument is about how this tool has no nuance.
It has no way to really understand that certain industries just inherently produce more smog and as such, we will cause them incredible harm as a result.
We think that things like energy it will always produce some amount of greenhouse gas but we don't think that we should massively increase the cost of energy.
In fact, we think that energy is already too expensive as individuals cannot pay to innovate as effectively due to energy costs.
Additionally, we think that certain industries will be mismeasured.
We think that the forestry industry replants two trees for every one tree that they cut down and yet they'll still be seen as a massively smog producing industry.
As such, it doesn't address the global effect of these sort of things.
It doesn't address how globalization impacts pollution and as such, it will not truly help anyone to implement a pollution tax.