We should legalize insider trading.
In the status quo, individuals are unjustly punished for insider trading when all that they are doing is contributing to the total marketplace of information and ideas.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model.
That all individuals who do not control stock prices, that is to say everyone who works for a corporation but is not an executive, should be allowed to buy and sell stocks based on the information that they know.
That is to say they can buy and sell stocks for the company that they currently work for or any company that they have insider info for.
Additionally, we will allow the selling of information regarding stocks for all individuals.
This is to say if an executive would like to sell information regarding the company that would otherwise not be public, we will also allow that.
I have three arguments but first an overview.
Recognize that all executives have an obligation to stockholders.
That is to say, in the united states courts have past precedent and past case law which determines that if a executive or board of director attempts to change policy for a corporation which harms the stockholders, then that individual is liable for harms and can be jailed.
But we think this will do is guarantee that executives and other individuals will not arbitrarily inflate the price of their stocks or otherwise abuse their ability to have insider information to the harm of their company otherwise they could be charged in court which individuals just don't want.
With that three arguments.
First off, on equality second, on the signaling mechanism and third, on how this will reduce the total risk in portfolios.
Now why do you think this will increase equality?
In the status quo, individuals in poverty and individuals in the middle class cannot meaningfully invest.
Why is this?
They don't have enough money to get information.
They do not have enough experience investing in particular firms to actually get a meaningful profit.
A lot of the time whenever they invest it is a gamble and individuals do not like to speculate with their life savings.
With insider information these individuals can guarantee that they these stocks will increase in value.
This means that the individuals in poverty and at the middle class, those who aren't executives, will have the ability to invest in particular forms of equity and gain a higher profit even though they cannot purchase other information.
We think this is meaningful good and will generally raise individuals out of poverty and it guarantee they have a life savings which will help them into the future.
My second argument is about the signaling mechanism of insider trading.
The purpose of the market is generally to allocate resources for investment but also to signal what is popular and meaningful in our current society.
We live in a capitalist state which means that much of our decision making calculus depends on profit motives.
The stock market actually allows individuals to determine what interests individuals in the status quo.
By allowing insider information all that we do is increase the total amount of information available and usable in the stock market.
This will lead to better planning on behalf of the government, better planning on behalf of corporations, and generally a higher quality of life for all individuals.
My third argument is how this reduces risk.
We think that individuals prefer to invest in equity where the risk is -pensurate to the reward.
That is to say, incredibly high risk things must have very high rewards.
In the status quo, stocks have a decent amount of risk and a decent amount of reward.
By allowing individuals to use a specialized information we decrease the risk while keeping the reward the same.
This pushes out more risky asset things like options, things like stock calls, which would otherwise make individuals have a far greater risk than they take on when they invest in the stock market.
The result of this is that individuals can get a lot of money in the short term without having to risk their entire life savings.
The additionally, it means that you have fewer risky tools which can lead to financial crises.
Instead of investing in bundles where you can't identify the information, you invest in assets that you know the trajectory of.
For this reason, we should legalize insider trading.