I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should get rid of amnesty international.
Amnesty international is an organization which has won a variety of awards for its work.
Its goal is very simple.
It opposes unjust punishment and imprisonment.
It is mostly focused on prisoners of conscience.
This is to say, someone who's articulated their political ideology in a non-hateful way and has still been imprisoned for it.
Because we think the work amnesty international does is so important and because we think it is incredibly good at pursuing that work, we would say that we we should keep amnesty international.
I have three arguments.
First, on the pressure amnesty international puts on governments second, on the knowledge it creates and third, about its long term power but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent argues that amnesty international is a corrupt organization, that it misspends its money, and largely uses its money in a political way which is ineffective.
First let's address the corruption claims.
Amnesty international has been universally accepted as one of the most effective organization in terms of its use of money.
Money is used to the greatest extent possible and considerably better than any organization with similar ideologies.
As such, because evidence demonstrates that it is a well respected, well liked organization that corruption claims are clearly false.
In terms of the politicalization politicization claims these are also untrue.
Amnesty international works directly against governments who are being unjust, who are imprisoning individuals.
These are political statements when you say the government of singapore ought not arrest someone simply because they articulated their ideas on drug policy, that is taking a stance against singapore.
My opponent's stance of no charities can be political, no charities can articulate their goals in any meaningful sense, is fundamentally unjust and ultimately leads to ineffective charity organizations who can never check against corrupt governments.
Because we think governments sometimes need to be checked and because we think amnesty international is very good at this, we would say we should not get rid of amnesty international.
This leads me to my three arguments.
First off, on the pressure amnesty puts on governments.
This is a direct rebuttal to my opponent's claim that amnesty is ineffective.
Now amnesty international uses the strategy of naming and shaming.
It's been a classic technique of non-government organizations around the world.
It's incredibly useful to find the harms of a government, point them out, and say "international community you need to care about this ".
Although amnesty without further support has never been effective in creating change, it has been effective in creating a discourse regarding certain ideas bringing this the attention of governments to particular issues.
This is where you get meaningful change.
It is affected presidents to create pardons.
It is affected leaders to release prisoners.
It has caused organizations to sanction certain governments simply because they are being unjust.
This is clearly efficacy and clearly a good use of money.
My second argument is about knowledge knowledge of oppression, knowledge of violence.
The sort of surveys that amnesty conducts are actually incredibly valuable.
Although individual political prisoners and individual harms may be the greatest individual actions that occur, it's also very useful to know about the overall political system within a state.
Knowing that a state is fundamentally corrupt is very useful for the naming and shaming and this knowledge goes a long way in saving lives.
My third argument is about the long term power of amnesty.
Regardless of amnesty's current campaign, it has used its power to incredible good throughout history.
This means that disbanding it, getting rid of it outright, would largely be a waste of its political capital instead of using it for effective political goals which is a potential alternative which is impossible once you get rid of it.
As such, we should not get rid of amnesty international.