I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should fight urbanization.
Urbanization is largely a positive trend.
We think that the ability to amass resources in a small area and provide for incredible benefits for people who come to that area is a good thing.
When you spread people out around thousands of on upon thousands of miles, we don't think you can have communal resources, we don't think you can have effective governance, and people are largely isolated.
The trend of urbanization is one which is largely beneficial.
My opponent says two main arguments.
First, they talk about the environment.
They say that the rural environments are better for individuals' quality of life and better for the environment overall.
Two big responses, first in terms of quality of life.
We think that individuals are actually far better off in the city.
Sure, there might be a few factories here or there that decrease individuals' ability to see the stars, but we think that things like the ability to scrub factories, scrubbers on towers, the decrease in pollution overall means that the actual air quality isn't much worse and, in fact, in many situations, they don't have to live next to, say, a paper mill, or near a coal refinery, or even a coal power plant.
So for many individuals, they don't actually have a bad quality of life compared to rural areas.
As such, we think that individuals in cities will largely have the ability to live a higher quality of life.
But not only that, we think that the greater access to things like hospitals is incredibly important, as I'll discuss in my first argument.
But let's also talk about the idea of just being bad for the environment overall, because we think the environment is more than just air quality.
It's also things like global warming.
It's also things like runoff due to cars, and the rural environments require far more driving.
In my urban environment, I can walk to the store down the street and I have almost no carbon footprint, but if I lived in the far out of the state, if I lived in a very rural area, I'd have to drive ten, twenty miles to get to the closest store and as a result, I would release an incredible amount of smog.
I would lease release pollution which would increase global warming, melt ice caps, and also contribute to pat air quality overall.
So we think that although some people might have a marginally decreased air quality as a result of urbanization, the total amount of pollution actually goes down.
My opponent's second argument is the idea that this is a social good to live in the rural areas and that it's socially bad to live in these urban environments, that people see crime or violence because of these urban environments.
This is simply untrue.
A couple reasons why: first, jobs are far more plentiful in urban environments.
Individuals are actually less likely to see crime, less likely to see violence in urban environments.
This is why you see a lot of rural areas destroyed by heroin and meth, because individuals in these areas can't find jobs, they feel disheartened and are largely pulled in by forces they do not have control over.
The result then is that the actual society in these areas is far worse.
Not only that, we think that you simply just get less contact in rural areas.
You get far more organization based on race or religion and get incredibly polarized and isolated communities who are far more likely to hate their fellow man.
The contact you get in urban environments is far preferable as a result.
This leads me to my first argument, the idea of a waste of resources.
We think that to have ample resources in a rural environment, you need to build lots of the same sort of thing.
If people live over a hundred mile area in what could live in a one mile area in a city, we think that in a city, you could build one school.
But in the rural areas, no one's going to be willing to drive a hundred miles out just get to school.
As such, you have to build multiple smaller schools with fewer resources.
This is incredibly problematic for things like hospitals, where we think that you get worse hospitals, worse doctors, and generally people who are just less able to live a high quality of life and actually get the effective health care they need.
As a result, we should not fight urbanization.