I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abandon television.
Television has stood for seventies odd years because it is an incredibly efficient way to produce and disseminate content.
We think that most people have a television.
There are so many televisions around that they're incredibly accessible and ultimately it's a very cheap way of getting information as such, any attempt to abandon television would push people out of their ability to access information while also making it so we have worse content overall.
This leads me to my first argument wherein I will intersperse rebuttal that of accessibility.
My opponent says that really you get better accessibility with the internet, that people can somehow access the internet more easily than they can access a television.
They talk about things like libraries but they also seem to imply that individuals have better access to the internet just simply because they have the access to these sort of resources.
It's largely unclear how this comes about.
The reason why is because for the television, getting a television isn't very expensive.
First off, a television service that is to say cable or free public television we think costs very little money.
An internet service costs far more than cable in the vast majority of situations.
Second though, getting a computer together is incredibly expensive.
I bought a TV which is far larger than the average family needs with a far higher resolution and graphics quality and it only cost me five hundred dollars.
Compare that to my laptop or compare it to my desktop which cost about a thousand dollars each and you see a stark comparison.
Ultimately is incredibly important that these individuals have access to some kind of information which is actually far easier as a result of the television than the internet.
This access is essential for all the reasons that my opponent says.
It allows them to become informed citizens.
It allows them to live a better quality of life as they can access entertainment far more easily.
They can access information far more easily.
They can really choose far better as a whole.
My opponent further expands their accessibility point by saying that most TV caters to the wealthy but this is largely untrue and largely unclear why it would be true.
The best forms of television cater to a massive audience.
We think that there are a lot of people in poverty in all sorts of countries.
Any country that really needs to address their poverty in a meaningful way have a lot of people who can really rally behind a certain cause.
We actually think that a lot of television is willing to cater to individuals in poverty or at the very least sort to work with them at least a little bit in order to allow them to see themselves on TV and really change how TV is is overall.
As the poor make up a larger portion the population as they spend more of the disposable income on things that they actually need, we think that a lot of advertisers want to get to them and a lot of content is catered to them.
My second argument is the actual content and capital that goes into shows.
My point says you get far more choice and far more options with streaming than you would with cable.
This is just untrue completely.
We think that channels produce far more high quality content.
Ninety nine percent of the stuff that people watch on netflix or hulu comes as a result of television networks actually producing high quality content that people want to watch.
These are the places where you have access to good directors.
This is the place where you have the most access to capital and can consistently reinvest money using what you get from previous shows.
We think that streaming channels simply do not have that benefit and don't have the incentive can only produce really high quality individual shows because it just matters that they have a critical mass where someone can find something that they like.
Compare that to a television where they're always competing against every other channel, it's incredibly clear that we lose very valuable content if we get rid of television.
For this reason, we should not abandon television.