We should further exploit unconventional oil.
For the last hundred years there was no way to exploit things like oil sands, oil share shale, tar sands, and bitumen sands.
Luckily in the last ten to fifteen years there has been profound and incredibly important progress in the fields of oil extraction.
It is simply illogical that we refuse to use things like oil sands but continue to mine oil throughout the world.
While oil sands exist in places that are typically inhospitable to life, oil deposits exist in places like anwar alaska where there are nature reserves and the antarctic which we would say ought not be politicized or owned by any entity.
Allowing individuals to exploit unconventional oil will both decrease the cost and increase the security of all states which decide to further exploit unconventional oil.
With that in mind, we would support the following model.
That all states with large oil industries transfer money into the extraction of unconventional oil generally subsidizing this kind of oil.
Now my first argument is about cost.
Decrease in the cost of oil is incredibly important.
Now how this is would work is fairly simple.
As supply increases massively and the cost of extracting oil decreases massively, the cost of oil over all will decrease.
Because of increased competition in the oil market coupled with the fact that production costs are down, individuals will spend far less at the pump.
Now my opponent will likely straw me on this argument saying that transportation costs don't outweigh things like global warming.
However, this completely ignores how oil affects the entirety of the economy.
Oil effects food prices, as individuals need to ship food over long distances distances in an increasingly globalized world, similarly all products at this point in time are shipped from country to country.
They are extracted in south america or africa, shipped to europe or america for base manufacturing, shipped to asia for assembly, and then shipped around the world for sale.
Decrease in the cost of every single transaction in that chain will decrease the price of all products.
This will massively increase the effect of income of people around the world.
This is incredibly important for the global poor who will now have access to amenities they thought never possible.
Similarly, as the cost of basic amenities go down individuals will be able to feed their family more effectively and decrease their the harms of poverty as they can buy far more products like food and toiletries which allow them to maintain a basic level of human dignity.
My second argument is about security.
Unfortunately, there are very few states which contribute massively to the global oil market.
In the status quo canada, mexico, saudi arabia are all major players but even in the case of canada and the united states, sacrificing your sovereignty simply to buy a single product is largely illogical.
When US companies can extract unconventional oil and stop buying oil from canada and saudi arabia, they increase their autonomy massively.
Looking back to the opec oil shocks of the last fifty years we have seen that when the united states decides to exert its autonomy around the world opec has been willing to fire back massively increase in the price the price of or of regular oil.
This puts many people in poverty into a very precarious situation as they cannot go to their jobs or even buy food because they cannot get into their car.
Having oil security will allow for greater autonomy in the united states and in the cases where the price of oil would be increased massively, will stop individuals in the united states from suffering as a result of the actions of the US federal government.
For this reason, we should further exploit unconventional oil.