Boarding schools should be abolished.
Boarding schools are a truly ineffective tool that does not solve the underlying symptoms which they try to solve.
They are used in one of two situations.
Either when a child is a delinquent as a way for a parent to ship their child off rather than dealing with the problems head on or if the parent believes that they provide a better form of education which they generally do not.
Because we think that both of these uses are fundamentally poorer and generally should not be an option available to anyone, we would support the following model.
That governments ban any schools that require housing as well.
The only exceptions are maybe delinquency schools where a child has actually caused a crime and this is some form of rehabilitation.
Two arguments why boarding school should be abolished then.
First is a lack of oversight.
This comes in two ways.
First, educational and second off, in terms of punishment.
But in general, we believe that boarding schools are less likely to be effective and less likely to be culpable for their own actions because there's incredibly little oversight.
First, they're generally private institutions which means that their primary purpose is to raise money as fast as possible.
This means that they are most interested in churning out graduates regardless of an effective education and are unlikely to use the truest tools at their disposal rather relying on corporal punishment as a way to actually get their students to behave rather than therapy or other forms of rehabilitation.
This leads into education in that teachers will generally use old fashioned ways of teaching and are generally prioritize based on their name or what they've done in the past rather than their current teaching ability.
It is unlikely that parents will ever understand what is happening in the classroom because they do not engage with their students on a day-to-day basis.
This means that parents have incredibly little oversight.
We would further say that students have incredibly little political efficacy so it is unlikely that they could lobby the school or outside institutions in order to change their situation.
This means that they are a captive audience which generally puts them at the whims of a capitalist organization but also makes them at the whims of teachers who would like nothing more for them than for them to be quiet and obedient.
This leads into the second reason why lack of oversight is bad, punishment.
When punishment is used in boarding schools it is typically considerably more strict and harsh.
This is incredibly problematic because students can have a long term trauma or generally fear or dislike education writ large because of this kind of punishment.
It is unlikely that their parents will take meaningful action once again because the student does not have constant access and because there's no real oversight in the school from other parents who visit the school who are volunteers which means that the boarding school can simply have a he said she said situation where the boarding school will always have an asymmetry of power convince parents and other individuals that they did no wrong.
This means that students get a worse education and are generally afraid of education writ large which harms their long term job and educational prospects.
My second argument is about the social effects of boarding schools.
First, we think homophobia is massively rampant in boarding schools.
The vast majority of boarding schools are single gender.
There is just men or just women.
What we see as a result of this is that individuals there are still growing teens, they're still growing individuals and have sexual urges.
Unfortunately, many individuals because they have sexual urges but do not have anyone else to vent to express this in a form of rampant homophobia.
That is to say, because the only other options to sexualize individuals of the same sex is criminalized on face given that teachers and students push this sort of agenda.
Additionally, we think boarding schools are hotbeds of hazing and other problematic rituals which cause children to die, cause children to feel unsafe and generally lead to a cycle of violence which goes generation through generation through the boarding school.
For this reason, boarding school should be abolished.