We should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
In the united states guns have caused incredible amount of harm to the whole of society due to the lives that they have taken, the accidents they have caused, the crime that is intrinsically and directly linked to gun violence, and the intimidation effects involved with open carry laws in the status quo.
Because we think that guns are so deeply ingrained in the US culture, it is essential for government to be the only actor who can step in for the US federal government to meaningfully strike back against the right to keep and bear arms.
We would as such propose the following model: that in the united states, a gun buyback program would be instituted.
We'll pay a little less than the market price for any given gun, that is to say, any a little less than the price of a new gun.
It doesn't matter if your shotgun's a month old or ten years old, we'll pay the same price to get it back from you.
We don't want individuals have any reason to not want to bring back their guns.
We'll immediately criminalize the sale of guns and the sale of ammo.
Even if we don't have perfect efficacy in solving people who sell guns as we make it so ammo manufacturers simply cannot operate, we think that guns largely become unusable.
We would also makes guns illegal, the possession of guns illegal within two years allowing individuals to operate within the gun buyback program but making their possession a crime immediately afterwards.
We are also operating under the assumption there's a constitutional change involved that the popper proper regulation and legislation that has been passed to allow for the constitution to be changed.
Three arguments then for why this is a good idea.
First off on accidents.
Guns when in the hands of innocent individuals, still cause incredible amounts of harm.
Children who get guns largely hurt themselves or hurt neighbors.
A high powered weapon can shoot through a wall and kill someone.
There've been recorded stories of children playing with guns, pretending by pointing at other people, playing with them, in a the way that they've seen guns used in the past and as such, people dying.
We think government has an obligation to protect innocent individuals particularly children have an understanding of consequence or necessarily what they're doing at a given time and as such, it must ban guns.
May second argument is about crime.
Think that cheaper guns means cheaper crime.
We think that this policy raises the price of guns, incredibly raises the price of ammunition, and makes it risky for anyone to hold a gun at a given time.
As such, we think that in the status quo regular guns do not actually solve crime.
We think it's rare that people have guns and if someone pulls a gun on you, you don't really have a chance to take out your own gun without being shot.
As such, by criminalizing guns all that we do is make crime less effective, less effective for getting a lot of money in the short term, and as such, decrease the total amount of crime.
Secondarily though, we think it also makes policing harder when we have guns on the street.
That cops are likely to be violent.
We think that they're less likely to mobilize efficiently.
But even if they're still just as violent as before, we think that the optics of people not having guns anymore, the idea that juries can say there's no chance he had a gun because they're illegal means that more police will be tried for police brutality increasing the total amount of trust in cops from the public to increase.
My third argument is about intimidation.
We think that guns have been used to silence groups a lot of the time.
Open carry protests have been used in LGBTQ rallies and liberal protests as well where people walk with their signs but also with large guns strapped to their back.
These guns are a clear threat but cannot be solved in the status quo because there's a right to keep and bear arms.
It is essential then the government step in to protect free speech and guarantee individuals cannot use them as a tool of intimidation.
This policy clearly resolves this by making it so anyone who's openly or secretly carrying a gun can be arrested.
For this reason, we should abolish the right to keep and bear arms.