We should limit the exploitation of natural resources.
The biggest problem currently facing mankind is that we are massively overusing our natural resources.
This isn't just trees, this isn't just gas or minerals within the earth.
The UN recently put out a declaration that the human race is consuming fish at a truly unreasonable and unsustainable rate.
The earth, in producing all of our resources, has ways to produce it again.
However, if we overfish, if we overfarm, if we destroy our earth, there's no way in which we can get our resources back.
As such, it is essential that we limit the exploitation of natural resources by adopting the following model: governments around the world should put strict limits on the total amount of each natural resource that can be harvested.
These rights to consumption, these rights to harvest, will be traded in the form of permits where the government can sell particular rights to resources to particular organizations.
This will both massively increase our revenue, while giving far more government control over our natural resources and limiting their consumption drastically.
This leads me to three arguments: first is about the tragedy of the commons.
Just as in the commons, in the metaphor of the tragedy of the commons, there's more than enough resources to go around if there is responsible harvesting in place.
Things like fish farming, things like replanting trees every time they're consumed guarantee that we'll have these resources for generations to come.
However, irresponsible corporations and the consumption of resources that do not refresh as fast as we can put them back into the earth demonstrate that the tragedy of the commons is a massive issue in our current world.
Each day, we consume more than the earth can put back at our feet and as a result, we think that we reduce the total capacity for the earth to recover, while reducing the total ability for us to even consume that resource in the first place.
Our overconsumption will ultimately lead to a world in which we can access none of these resources, in which we'll have no ability to eat the foods we want, to harvest what we need, and to ultimately run our machines, our factories, and our lives.
My second argument's about global warming.
We think that the exploitation of natural resources harms our earth in two main ways.
First, we think that it leads to a massive increase in the total amount of greenhouse gases.
As a result, we think that the earth warms over time.
This, first, increases the total amount of water in our oceans.
As we destroy glaciers and permafrost around the world, we think that the sea levels rise.
This has already put island nations underwater and destroyed small fishing villages around the world.
But secondly, as we consume certain natural resources, we also release chemicals that destroy our ozone layer.
This can lead to harmful UV rays which destroy individuals' bodies, destroy parts of our earth, and ultimately can kill mass amounts of our biomass simply due to the strength of the sun coming through our atmosphere.
My second argument is about environmental quality.
We think that limiting the exploitation of natural resources means that you're less likely to get landslides, as more trees means that the earth is literally held in place far more effectively.
It means that you're far less likely to see oil spilled into individuals' drinking water, as the main reason that we see this in the status quo is the overconsumption of oil and the massive amounts that we transport all at once.
Ultimately, limiting the exploitation of natural resources would both reduce the total amount of global warming that we have, while also making it so individuals live happier, healthier lives around the world.
For this reason, we should limit the exploitation of natural resources.