We should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
The foundation of government is the ability to punish those who break the laws.
Laws are the way in which the people speak.
We elect representatives, and they pass policy with due respect to our views, opinions, and belief in the good.
However, when criminals can get away with laws, it shakes the foundation of government and challenges the very basis of the criminal justice system.
While we support the vast majority of protections put upon the accused, we would say that the double jeopardy defense is fundamentally unjust insofar as it creates a bright line where government cannot act at all after a particular set of actions have been taken.
As such, the model is simple: we would abolish the double jeopardy defense.
No one can claim that because they have been attempted to be prosecuted in the past, they cannot be prosecuted in the future.
Two arguments to support this model, first is justice.
The foundation of the criminal justice system must be putting those who violate laws in jail.
When the government cannot put people, who they know, beyond any doubt, have committed a crime, in jail, then the whole of society is less safe.
Double jeopardy can prevent the government from putting these people in jail simply because they've tried them in the past.
If someone is seen is believed to be a murderer but there's not strong evidence at a certain point, the government has a choice: try to try them or delay the case even further to try to find more evidence.
In the cases where they try and fail to put someone in jail, the person can never be tried again.
This means that if they prove irrefutable evidence that a certain individual has committed a crime, they still cannot try them.
This is incredibly problematic.
This allows criminals to get away with crime simply by delaying evidence and destroying evidence.
It allows them to use witness intimidation and patsies to stop themselves from being charged with crimes.
This is incredibly problematic because simply intimidating witnesses at one point in time, intimidating a jury at a certain point of time, is not as difficult as doing it repeatedly.
As such, without the double jeopardy rule, the government can get around these sort of peculiarities and put the worst criminals in jail.
These sort of tactics are the sort of tactics used by drug dealers, drug lords, crime lords, in general, who must be put in jail.
Furthermore, there are a variety of checks and balances within the criminal justice system to ensure that the accused are protected no matter what.
There's a statute of limitation which makes sure that someone cannot be just tried again and again by the government.
There will always be a time in which the government can no longer take action against an individual.
Additionally, politics check the criminal justice system as well.
A variety of people, judges and prosecutors, are elected by the people, and if they try fruitlessly to put people in jail, they will be voted out of office.
This means that the double jeopardy defense is largely unnecessary and only is used to protect the worst in society who would otherwise have no political or statute of limitations incentives which would stop them from being put in jail.
The second argument is the idea of mobilization.
It is incredibly problematic that a case cannot be brought against a defendant until there is a belief that is truly beyond a reasonable doubt.
If there is strong evidence to suggest that someone has committed a crime, they should be put on the stand.
There's a a variety of truth that can come out on the stand that simply cannot be found in person.
However, we cannot put a certain individual on the stand unless we are certain we have enough evidence to put them in jail, because if they fail in the status quo, they will go free for the rest of their life.
As such, this prevents the mobilization of resources within the criminal justice system which would otherwise deter action and be used for truth-finding purposes.
At the point where the criminal justice system cannot be efficacious, we believe that we should abolish the double jeopardy defense.