I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should limit genetic testing.
It is incredibly unfair that we would exploit individuals, that we would refuse to allow the corporations and researchers and honestly the whole of society from accessing one of the most revolutionary and powerful technologies of the twenty first century.
By limiting genetic testing we stifle research and decrease the total normalization of genetic testing.
There's already fear that companies like twenty three and me, companies that use your spit to map your genome, are spying on people, are generally refusing to respect the rights of individuals who would otherwise not consent to this kind of intrusion.
We think that these are largely based on misconceptions regarding genetic testing and are largely unfounded in the status quo.
For this reason, we would say that genetic testing is a good.
Two arguments why: first, on technology and research.
We think that individuals cannot find things that they are not looking for unless they actively open their search to all possibilities in the world.
This statement might seem kind of circuitous or unclear but what we mean by this is that when individuals are looking for a particular cause for a certain disease, they may or may not find it.
However, diseases can be caused by numerous things and at this point in time we do not understand the extent to which diseases can be caused by different factors.
What this means is that if we do not test the whole of someone's genome, if you don't test someone's genetics to an incredible extent, what we will see is that the total amount of research we have will decrease.
The total amount of understanding we have will decrease overall.
We saw this when individuals were getting breast cancer.
We had a general understanding that radiation, that unhealthy foods can lead to breast cancer but it was only higher level genetic testing, whole body genetic testing where we were able to isolate particular genes which greatly increase the chance of breast cancer.
As such, by limiting genetic testing, by forcing it to be on very specific subjects rather than on general principles, we are far less likely to understand what we do not currently understand.
We may be able to solve short term problems and solve simple issues where we generally know the extent to a problem however, we will never understand the whole of the human genome unless we expand our understanding of genetic testing.
My second argument is about normalization.
I want to address my opponent's argument about how this will be used by corporations and insurance companies first.
They functionally misunderstand how the regulation of insurance companies works in the status quo.
We see things like the HP a, we see huge numbers of regulations which prevent this kind of exchange of information regarding genetic testing.
We think that individuals are unlikely to consent to release this information to a particular company.
However, we would further say that if genetic testing is normalized, we are far more likely to see regulations that make it so generalized genetic testing don't have to be pushed on to an insurance company that make it so if there is a secret that comes out because of genetic testing, your insurance company cannot figure it out.
With that in mind, I want to discuss why individuals will feel that genetic testing is more normalized in this kind of world.
We think that individuals are the best at understanding their own needs and goods and as genetic testing it's used more and used and a more broad sense, the price generally decreases as doctors rely on it more, the technology is less niche, and we can get just get better, more efficient technology overall and doctors are far more likely to recommend it.
This is where you see this normalization.
This is where you see people stop being afraid of genetic testing and instead embrace it, improving the health science in our entire community and saving countless lives.
For this reason, we should not limit genetic testing.