I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban trans fat usage.
Although trans fat is unhealthy, when government bans it outright it restricts the freedoms of individuals and corporations harming the quality of life of all people.
Quite simply, when government steps in and violates the rights of people, it is violating the trust of the people as well.
It violates their liberties and their ability to choose efficiently.
I have three arguments in today's debate.
First about how the state government overstep.
Second, how this is a false creates a false sense of solvency and third, how this disrupts the market.
So first on how this is a government overstep.
Now a ban is a last resort.
It is only acceptable when all other alternatives have failed.
In this argument I want to address two worlds.
First, the status quo in which we already inform individuals about trans fat incredibly efficiently and secondly, about a potential world in which we regulate this far more stringently.
So in the status quo, what we see is that there's already requirements to put nutrition information on certain goods.
It's incredibly easy to turn a package around and see oh this has a certain amount of trans fat in it.
Additionally, there's numerous amounts of information.
There are a number of individuals who push that trans fat is unhealthy so it's not a mystery or otherwise a secret that trans fat is unhealthy.
What this means is this clearly meets the first standard which drew puts out for when government can ban things.
The average person is informed about when trans fats are in food and understands the implications of consuming trans fat.
If we were to step in and ban any good would in which there's not perfect information in which the average person can not completely conceptualize the implications of their decision, we would have to ban every single decision.
If I buy a carrot, I don't understand the pesticides that were used in it.
If I buy a car, I don't understand the exact places it's been and its uses.
Quite simply, the standard in which drew puts in place for information is absurd and unattainable.
Furthermore, we would say that at the point where the market has allowed individuals to decide if something is good or bad, we ought respect that freedom.
Although certain corporations will decide ultimately whether or not to put trans fats in their food and there's nothing that the people can do about it, they ultimately have the choice of what to buy.
There are always alternatives without trans fat and as such, we would say that banning it out right is restricting choice without giving due process or due rights to the people.
Now let's discuss the world in which we have further regulation.
We can require all corporations to put in bold letters on the front of their packaging the amount of trans fat.
We can put a surgeon general's warning there.
At that point there is no reason to ban it and all that we are doing is harming people's quality of life.
Now my second argument is that this creates a false sense of solvency.
Much research has come out in recent years about how fat does not harm people nearly as much as people try to claim.
The main dietary component which harms individuals is sugar.
Suggesting that trans fats are so horrible that we ought ban them outright reduces the onus on things like the sugar industry to put out proper information about how sugar can harm people and ultimately tells people that their food is healthy even when it's not.
We'd say the trans fats make a very small percentage of what actually harms people and taking this sort of policy simply shifts people's focus away from the real issues.
Now my third and final argument is that this creates a market disruption.
When government steps in and bans things at will simply to have a brief increase in utility, investors get scared.
They are afraid to invest in any industries in which the government has not rubber stamped and decided is not the perfect industry and as such, they will leave the market.
Even in just simple food markets, this can cause disastrous repercussions for the whole of the economy and as such, should not ban trans fat usage.