We should fight nationalism.
Nationalism is a play on states in which individuals have been led down a problematic and essentially egoistic path.
It depends on individuals fighting for not just themselves but essentially identifying themself with the nation and identifying anyone who is not part of that nation as an inherent enemy.
Does not depend on truth, it does not depend on the value of individuals within the state it is illogical and violent.
As such we would prepose the following model, that each individual should oppose nationalism wherever they see it and in any way they see it.
This is no matter how small if someone sees nationalism you should call it out and fight it in any way possible.
My first argument is about xenophobia.
Why does nationalism create xenophobia?
Nationalism requires an in group and an out group.
If there is not a group which you inherently exclude from your nation then there's no reason to be proud of members of the in group.
Although we can all be happy to be members of the human race, we would say that that doesn't create any pride over anyone else.
It is not nationalism unless there are people you can say are not part of your nation.
As such, this largely leads to xenophobia and racism against individuals who you would not say are part of your nation this is inherently problematic as it can lead to violence within the state but is also problematic as it decreases the total amount of cooperation and goodwill among citizens.
We think that nationalism begets more nationalism.
If I say I am a part of the nation of sam and someone else is not but they still have some pride in themselves they could then they can form their own nation they could form their own identity which is parallel but opposed to my own and as such create violence between the two groups.
This sort of nationalism is inherently parasitic.
It tells individuals that by joining the nation they will become better than they currently are, they'll be better than their fellow man and in doing so tells other individuals they are worse.
When you tell other individuals they are worse they lash out as there is no logical reason for them to be labeled as such.
My second argument is about war.
We think that nationalism inherently leads to war for a few reasons.
First we think that the massive pride in one's nation that someone feels leads into the sort of feeling of otherness but also says that the nation deserves anything it can get and I think my nation is all powerful or deserves total respect I will attempt to subvert the wills of my neighbors, I will refuse to cooperate, and fight tooth and nail to expand my own reaches.
This is inherently problematic as it will lead to violence between states, it will pull individuals into a military that you don't understand, and put them on the front lines using their lives as cannon fodder towards ends which have no true values and no true benefits to the whole of humanity.
My third and final argument is about the lack of accountability which stems from nationalism.
Because nationalism is not a logical philosophy, individuals largely follow it blindly if a politician comes to power on the back of nationalism individuals will not criticize them because they believe that they are a member of their group.
Nationalism largely puts individuals into a zero sum game.
If I criticize the leader of my nation my nationalism will say that other groups are empowered.
This means you can never hold individuals in your own group accountable.
You will always put blame on other individuals, create scapegoats, and in doing so create more violence and a worse state in terms of politics.
For this reason, we should fight nationalism.