We should limit the use of birth control.
Although birth control is an important tool, it is also incredibly powerful.
In the same way that we think diabetes medication is essential for certain people to live, we would also say that these kinds of things must be regulated by the government to an incredible extent.
In order to guarantee that individuals are protected from the potentially harmful effects of taking birth control without understanding the implications, we would propose the following model: that all birth control be prescription only.
So for the vast majority of birth control, things like emergency contraception spermicide, we would require individuals to get a prescription to get them at all.
We would say that for condoms, individuals could get a one time lifetime prescription but they must first visit a doctor in order to be prescribed these kinds of things.
Three arguments for why this will improve societal well being, first on risk.
We think that every single kind of birth control brings with it the risk of allergies.
If it is internal, things like spermicide could cause intensive damage and potentially just permanent disfigurement if someone has an incredibly extreme allergic reaction.
We would also say that the middle of sex is not the best time to have an allergic reaction.
If someone goes into anaphylactic shock while they are say eating at a dinner table individuals can respond immediately.
If someone starts going into shock on the middle of sex, there's a potential their partner will not recognize it, there's a potential their partner will be too embarrassed to take immediate action.
It is incredibly dangerous and as such in order to protect people's lives they must understand the risks and allergies surrounding birth control.
Visiting a doctor will resolve this issue if somone has a latex allergy we think that individuals will understand this beforehand and not be prescribed things like latex condoms.
Secondly though we think that almost all birth control has side effects, particularly internal birth control.
Side effects can range from higher blood pressure, can infertility, they can be any number of things that are potentially damaging into the long term.
We think that individuals can only make meaningful decisions regarding what they want to do and what they want to consume if they understand the risks behind it.
To this end we think that individuals should be informed about the side effects of birth control, something that just does not happen with over-the-counter medication in general.
Finally we think that individuals should understand how to use things properly and the effectiveness surrounding it.
Condoms alone have only about a ninety five percent success rate.
This means that if individuals don't understand they should have two kinds of birth control they're far more likely to have a child unexpectedly.
We think that doctors can educate individuals for why they need to have two kinds of birth control or the effectiveness of any given kind of birth control.
Additionally we think that they can know more about these kinds of birth control in general.
Things like emergency contraception just is not effective after seventy two hours and is almost four times as effective in the first twenty four hours.
Additionally if someone doesn't know how to use a condom that is pulling it all the way down improper use means immediately throwing it away they can potentially cause someone to get pregnant on that alone.
My second argument is about political shifts.
We think that individuals need to understand other kinds of birth control exist and how effective it is.
If your only option reasonably or at least conveniently is over-the-counter birth control, you simply will not get educated in other kinds of birth control.
As such we think that creating a standard for all birth control where it is all prescription will guarantee it individuals are protected from this kind of harm.
Secondly, we think it's good if individuals understand all kinds of prescription birth control.
We think that if there's a certain stigma against things like the nuvaring or the pill but if all birth control requires a prescription, that stigma will go away.
As such we should limit the use of birth control.