We should protect whistleblowers.
Whistleblowers are a key resource for many journalists who want to uncover dirt or shed light on corruption in powerful systems in our society.
Because the most powerful organizations take incredible means to hide information and to punish those who leak it, when individuals face incredible harm they're unlikely to come forward with the truth.
Even when corporations are destroying the environment, incredibly oppressive towards the global poor, or just generally problematic in terms of their workplace culture if they bring the hammer down on whistleblowers, whistleblowers simply will not exist.
Because we want to make whistleblowers feel more secure and because we do not think whistleblowers should have to incur incredible harm to protect the public, we would propose the following model: the government to be unable to subpoena journalists for sources that corporations be unable to take libel policies and slander policies against journalists who are quoting anonymous sources if the corporation cannot prove that the individual accusations are untrue.
We think that the only case and in which whistleblowers can be charged is if a corporation can positively prove beyond a reasonable doubt that they themselves are not conducting the harms in the accusation.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea.
First on the responsibility of government.
We think it is unjust to punish individuals for doing the right thing.
Our criminal justice system depends on individuals only being punished when they cause a harm to the whole of society.
Law is how individuals speak in a political system.
When laws are undermined or when individuals do not are not aware of laws being undermined they are being harmed.
Whistleblowers do the opposite.
They empower the criminal justice system and yet they're regularly targeted to the fullest extent of the law.
This policy would protect them and guarantee that we do not take unjust action against them.
We think government has an obligation to do this as it is the only one who can reform the criminal justice system.
My second argument is regarding the value of this kind of knowledge.
We think that when individuals do not know the perverse incentives and harms of government, they cannot vote in a meaningful sense.
If I do not know the worst thing a candidate has done, I am far more likely to vote for them even though I should not be doing so.
This undermine the right to political efficacy and destroys the democratic efficacy of our government.
We'd further say that individuals cannot conduct their daily life if they don't know the harms against them.
They don't know where to invest if they don't know which corporations are abusive.
They don't know which purchases they want to engage with if a corporation deserves to be boycotted yet no one knows what they're doing.
At the end of the day, the market is a democratic institution.
It allows individuals to place their resources where they can gain the most utility possible.
By decreasing this the access this information we guarantee that corporations increase the externalities upon the public and generally make the quality of life for all individuals worse.
This brings me to my third and final argument -bout how whistleblowers deter corruption.
When there is no way to check if a corporation is doing a bad thing, they will always do the worst thing possible.
In a free market economy any chance to get a benefit will be taken.
Any chance to get a leg up on your competitors will be taken.
This means that without proper coverage, corporations will inevitably destroy the environment and oppress their own workers.
Whistleblowers are important because they deter that corruption.
They increase the total risk involved with acting problematically towards the world and as such, are far more likely to deter corruption not only for corporations but for politicians too as they do not want to be voted out of office.
For this reason, we should protect whistleblowers.