When a child is born with a mental or physical disability, in a huge number of circumstances, parents are both unaware and unprepared.
In order to ensure that parents are not blind sided by the condition that their child is in upon their birth, we believe that prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory in all states which can afford to pay for that diagnosis for all mothers.
This will have three massive benefits: first, it will bring awareness to prenatal care and to the care of individuals with disabilities.
We believe that in many western liberal democracies prenatal and postnatal care is largely uncared for is largely unsupported.
When individuals have a child and do not have necessary support, either from their society, from their family or from the government, it is incredibly difficult to raise a child.
At a basic level, providing prenatal care for all women will allow them to access health care much more effectively.
Making it mandatory will make it easier to pressure insurance companies into either covering this care, or in states which are willing to cover it, allow all women to access it.
It will become a a right for all individuals rather than a privilege for the wealthy.
This is essential for protecting both the health of mothers and their children.
The second argument we would like to put forth is that this will create better preparation for parents.
In a variety of diseases which children have upon birth, like tay sachs, lead to the death of the child in very very little time.
We believe that parents should have the right to terminate a pregnancy rather than suffer the anguish of watching their child suffer and die as a result of a disease that they had upon birth.
However, even in cases where we think that an abortion is less likely, or in cases that are not as severe as that, things like autism and other mental disabilities, or even physical disabilities upon birth, require massive preparation by the parents.
When a child will be bound to a wheelchair for their entire life, parents need time to set up ramps.
When a when a child will have a difficulty sleeping at night parent should have the ability to organize individuals who can help them, either by paying them or getting family on the scene to actually allow them to raise the child effectively.
This will lead to more parents keeping their child if they are if they're understand the implications of a child's disability, but will also create better care for the child, leading to a better life and when a parent is more prepared, they're more likely to get sleep, more likely to be happy individuals and that will be good for every individual in that situation.
Now, our third and final argument is about the health and safety of the parent and the child.
When individuals are unaware what a child is suffering from, it is less likely for doctors to be able to predict the potential complications of a pregnancy.
Some children will harm their parent on the way out irreparably, due to a a problem with the pregnancy itself.
We believe that parents should either have the right to terminate the pregnancy rather than suffering the health of the parent, or simply have the ability to inform the doctor so that they can prepare beforehand as well.
Very simply, mandating prenatal diagnosis will lead to better societal opinions, better preparation for parents and better health and safety for the child and the parent.
Thank you.