I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should legalize prostitution.
The world's oldest profession is also the world's most oppressed in most situations.
It is a profession which provides no long term economic solvency.
Where there's a massive labor pool and generally it incredibly incredible power imbalance between the client and the individual providing the prostitution.
Because we think it is inherently problematic and leads to more criminal behavior as well, we would say that prostitution should not be legalized.
My first argument is about sex trafficking.
Legalizing prostitution will massively increase sex trafficking.
Why is this the case?
Because we believe that in most situations legalization is actually an effective thing.
Prohibition generally isn't effective for things like marijuana or alcohol because the criminals who produce it are getting all of the income rather than legal sources and because there's very little difference between illegal and legal goods in this regard.
The really important distinction with prostitution is that there is a difference between legal and illegal prostitution.
First, in the individual providing the prostitution.
Children, individuals who are seen as unfit to consent, are largely used in illegal prostitution.
Secondly, things like STD checks, other checks make it so a variety of individuals will also be excluded from legal prostitution.
This means that illegal brothels and illegal prostitution rings can exist and flourish even under legal prostitution as they can provide a different form of entertainment for a variety of individuals and employ people who were once legal prostitutes but then got an STD or another ailment which prevented them from continuing their former profession.
This means that cartels, human traffickers, will also increase in power with the legalization of prostitution to a incredibly problematic extent.
They'll be able to have further problematic policies.
They'll be able to steal people from their homes, expand their monopoly on violence in many areas, and generally reduce the power which individuals have in their home state.
We think that sex trafficking is one of the worst crimes possible and any policy which continues or supports it ought not be passed.
My second argument is about the inherent asymmetry of information in power within prostitution.
First, we think that this will lead to a world where individuals can lose their profession in a second.
This is incredibly problematic for a few reasons.
First, because individuals do not develop capital when they're working as a prostitute.
We think that unless they're taking other economic activities, unless they're working towards other forms of education, is unlikely that they'll be able to get another job simply because they were a prostitute.
You don't learn any other marketable skills while being in this profession.
However, you can lose your job incredibly quickly if you get a single STD, if a condom breaks and gets you pregnant then you can lose your job of being a prostitute and as a result, have no ability to move to other well paying jobs.
This will condemn individuals to a lifetime of poverty and cycles of poverty which are fundamentally unacceptable.
Additionally, we think that the ability of individuals to claim that someone is a prostitute after assaulting them or harming them is incredibly problematic and will lead to situations in which cops cannot be effective in arresting individuals.
Both good cops who are unaware of the actual truth of the situation but also problematic cops who think that things like assault and harassment should be normalized will be forced to allow individuals to go free simply because they claim that someone is a prostitute even if they weren't.
My third argument is about health effects.
Is impossible to guarantee and to check everyone on a daily basis.
This means that someone with an STD could work for a considerable amount of time.
In fact, huge numbers of individuals and increase the total incidents of STD's the leading to a public health crisis which is unavoidable if you legalize prostitution.
For this reason, we should not legalize prostitution.