I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should legalize public nudity.
Public nudity represents in a harm against a large subsection of a society.
I have two overviews followed by three arguments for why public nudity cannot be allowed.
My first overview is on the model to this motion and our understanding of it.
My opponent has adopted an incredibly narrow conception of the motion, but I will respond in a similar way.
All that is essential for this round is that public land or land which is near public land, which can be seen by the public, has public nudity.
This is not private areas, cordoned off beaches with high fences, this is parks or areas where people can see this public nudity.
Now, my second overview is about the good and about idiosyncratic rights.
We would say that the good is always idiosyncratic.
There are no natural rights, we are not born with any inherent tendency towards a particular law or regulation.
There is no god, there is no god in which we can ascribe these rights to, as that would be unfavorably favoring a particular conception of god over another, and as such we cannot derive laws or rights from god either.
We must derive rights from the society in which we are currently situated in.
And when that society has articulated very clearly that it does not accept public nudity, we must respond in kind.
This leads me to my first argument about government policy.
The government ought respond to the will of the people, who in the vast majority of society has determined that public nudity is not something that they want.
For the government to pass the sort of legislation and legalize public nudity, even in these fringe cases, would be violating the rights of society as a whole.
We have the a certain amount of power over our neighbor.
This is why we have all agreed to the social contract, we have forfeited some rights to have control over a situation.
And when we completely lose that ability, completely lose the ability to define what we see on a regular basis, we think that individuals rights have been violated.
As such, the government should not pass this sort of policy.
My second argument is that this is a misallocation of resources.
Now, this is immediately apparent if it's ever allowed on public land.
Forcing people off this land, people who are uncomfortable with nudity, clearly misallocates resources and uses taxpayer money or taxpayer land for unjust purposes.
But even if we simply allow it in the public air but on private land, we would say that this also misallocated resources as well.
Many people feel uncomfortable with nudity.
Not only has it been idiosyncratically banned in our society, we would say that many people feel so uncomfortable with nudity that they simply cannot be around it.
Creating a public park or a or even a beach which allows public nudity will make it so individuals cannot use areas around it ever.
This means that stores and other resources cannot be accessed, but also, and probably more problematically, any transportation which goes through these areas cannot be used as well.
It is very clear because they misallocation of resources when it makes individuals' lives less efficient and less utile overall.
And my third and final argument is that this is harmful.
We would say that public nudity cannot be completely avoided as long as it is legalized.
As such, certain individuals could easily be triggered by this sort of public nudity, or see this public nudity and be made uncomfortable for the entire day.
We think that is unjust to pass this sort of policies.
We would also say that parents will have a far more difficult time preventing their children from coming into contact with public nudity if it's legalized in these open air spaces.
If we allow public nudity in these cases, children can simply sneak off and see it, and as such parents lose their right to control what their children and see and engage with regularly.
We provide this power to parents because we think that they understand best what is good for their child, and removing this right from them is fundamentally unjust.
For this reason, proud to oppose.