I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end mandatory retirement.
Mandatory retirement is an important tool to create room for new workers.
If we allowed workers to work as long as they want, if we allow people to work into their eighties to eighty five the result would be there'd be far less jobs available.
The workforce would essentially shrink or at least the jobs available would essentially shrink by about eight percent.
As such, eight percent of the currently employed individuals would now be unemployed.
Despite the fact that most higher wage workers as they say people who are healthy enough to get to keep the job for long terms work stressful jobs which makes it very difficult to work in their old age, already have retirement funds, already have four_o_one_ks, already have ways in which they can actually pay their way pay their due without a job.
We think that without this though, people will become far worse off.
Two arguments for why this is a really bad idea to end mandatory retirement but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says all age-based restrictions are wrong.
I fundamentally disagree.
He is right about one thing.
Every single line that we draw, every single bright line doesn't really make sense.
The age of consent as eighteen years old you know it would be just a valid at seventeen or nineteen.
Drinking would be just as valid from age you know sixteen to twenty one.
However, we think that these are meaningful restrictions.
We think that if someone were to you say start drinking at age four that would be horrible.
It would stunt their growth.
It would make them lose brain cells.
It would addict them to a substance an early age which causes damage to their whole body.
The same is true with consent.
If we were allowing children to try to consent with adults that would be horrific and ultimately violate the rights the massive way.
It's very clear that age is an effective approximation for a variety of things.
It's fair if my opponent wants to say that you know mandatory retirement shouldn't just be at sixty five automatically, that maybe it should go to seventy, maybe even seventy five.
But it's entirely untrue that we should outright get rid of age-based restrictions as I think they actually effectively approximate individual's needs, understanding and goals.
As such, we think that this sort of age-based restriction is effective as I'll discuss in my arguments.
My opponent then goes on to say that other tools are far more effective, that we would be far better to keep them in the workforce to save money and make companies actually have more effective workers into long term.
But we think this is fundamentally untrue.
If companies were saving money on keeping retiree workers they wouldn't enforce a mandatory retirement.
It's not like mandatory retirement is a law.
It's clear these companies are losing money on workers who are losing effectiveness and it's clear that we shouldn't just use skill tests because we shouldn't have to wait till incompetence to actually be able to fire someone.
We should be able to fire someone once it's clear that if they were to stay on they could cause danger or damage to other people.
Leads me to my first argument, safety.
If a nurse, a doctor, a truck driver, a heavy machinery operator got to a very very old age they can cause a lot of damage and potentially cause death.
We think that this mandatory retirement is essential in guaranteeing that these individuals don't cause this kind of damage, don't destroy property, don't destroy people's lives and as such, we think this is the most important thing in the round.
If as a result of this kind of policy people start dying, we think it's horrific.
If people lose their jobs as a result of a mandatory retirement, that's acceptable to save lives.
My second argument is about efficiency.
We think that young workers are actually far more effective than old workers in a lot of situations but union jobs in particular are very hard to fire people from.
So it's an age old union worker and there's no mandatory retirement policy I'm never getting rid of them.
As such, we think to open up well paying union jobs to people who really need it, you need to have mandatory retirement.
For this reason, I am so proud to oppose.