We should abolish no-knock warrants no-knock warrants have some benefits.
I'll concede this right off the bat because the benefits are so minuscule that they are nothing compared to the harms that no-knock warrants cause.
Having a second or two of extra surprise against a criminal does very, very little.
However, when people reach for their guns cause they don't know who's breaking into their house, that's when people die.
Because we think that lives are more valuable than a infinitesimal increase the likelihood of catching someone, we would support abolishing no-knock warrants.
To that end, we would also support the following model: that judges no longer provide no-knock warrants, that if people have no-knock entry into a house for a police raid, that all evidence got in that raid should be thrown out.
First an overview for why this will end no-knock warrants overall, and then two arguments.
So, there're two reasons why this will end no-knock warrants.
First, there's no reason to search someone's house without a warrant when the evidence will be thrown out.
If a police officer has a no-knock warrant, they're very likely to be reprimanded by their police office, their police union, and will largely destroy a case.
This is incredibly problematic.
Even if it doesn't reduce the occurrence of no-knock warrants to zero, it will massively reduce them and decrease the incentive to ever use them.
Now my first argument is about safety.
Police are far more safe when we abolish no-knock warrants.
Why is this the case?
Many no-knock warrants involve plainclothes police officers.
Even when they don't, when someone tries to smash down your door, if you have a gun, the first thing you do is reach for your gun.
You may shoot through your door, you may shoot the first thing that you see come through your door.
This means that police officers die because people are startled, and for good reason.
When a huge number of men wielding guns enter your house, the first and most logical step is to shoot.
But even if you don't have a gun, dogs on with who don't have leashes are far more likely to attack someone if they are not first restrained by their owner.
No-knock warrants make it impossible for owners to actually stop their dog from attacking police officers, increasing the likelihood that a police officer gets bit and a dog gets put down.
We also think that you can charge people in court for this kind of violence without no-knock warrants.
There have been court cases in the past where people have had no-knock warrants and shot and killed police officers, and they were let off free.
We think that police officers will feel far more safe if they can charge people in court if they themselves are harmed.
We'd also say that people are far more likely to be harmed with no-knock warrants as well.
In many cases, no-knock warrants have led to a accidental attack on individuals who are not even the criminal at all.
Flash grenades have been thrown into nurseries.
Individuals have been shot because they simply look like the target of a warrant.
We think that's incredibly problematic when police officers do not take the time to confirm who they are actually trying to catch in a particular scenario, and no-knock warrants allow this to happen.
Additionally, we think the people can hold their hands in the air if they hear, " police.
We're coming in, " which will decrease the total amount of violence and misconceptions on both sides.
My second argument is about efficacy.
We don't think there'll be any harm to police efficacy, first, because police have huge amounts of resources and can surround premises to guarantee that criminals can't get away, but second, the situation is either that the door is locked, in which case you'll have to break it down either way and the no-knock warrant makes no difference, or it's unlocked and then it just takes two seconds to say, " police.
We're coming in. "
Additionally, we think that cops will be less afraid in without no-knock warrants cause they're less likely to get shot and, as such, they can act more courageously and more efficiently to catch criminals when they exercise these warrants.
For these these reasons, we should abolish no-knock warrants.