We should protect animal welfare.
Any system of rights and morality ought to protect everyone who has any stake in it.
We think that a exclusive system of rights ultimately gives power to the elite while refusing any dignity to those who fall out of the elites' favor.
In the same way we think that animal welfare is incredibly important because even if we extend these rights to all humans, if animals have any part in our society, if they have any contribution to our system of rights they deserve the same protection.
Furthermore we think that any system of rights is made far more powerful when it defers to the side of safety, where in cases where we are unsure whether something should have rights, they are given rights.
If we assume that an entire species or entire class of living beings is undeserving of rights, we ultimately diminish our moral capacity and make it far more difficult for us to uphold a consistent and reasonable standard of morality.
With that in mind I have three arguments.
First on the universality of rights.
We think that if we start to pick and choose who deserves rights, we will ultimately take it away from those who need it the most.
That is to say those who are already oppressed, who faced racism, sexism, persecution in any form, these are the individuals who will lose their rights first.
Similarly we think that individuals who cannot meaningfully or economically contribute to our society will also lose their rights.
That is to say the disabled, anyone who has trouble going about their daily lives, is far more likely to lose the rights that they deserve as an inherent part of their human condition.
Now we think that this has not yet come about at least in the united states.
We've seen individuals lose their access to rights throughout the world though.
In the rwandan genocide allusions and metaphors based on animals were used as a way to dehumanize the victims.
Ultimately we think that extending the system of rights, making it so living as a condition is already enough to get the sort of rights, will protect individuals.
Will make sure that they don't have their rights stripped away.
Even if you do not believe animals deserve rights inherently, by giving them rights we create a buffer which protects many oppressed people around the world.
Secondly though, let's talk about suffering reduction.
Because the reason that we have rights is to improve individuals' quality of life and reduce suffering.
We think that animals are capable of suffering.
We've seen this time and time again.
Abused animals feel suffering.
They can get depression, they become aggressive towards those who have harmed them.
There's clearly an amount of cognition there that allows them to feel this kind of suffering, to feel emotion, and as such to have preferences.
We think that these rights should be put in place to guarantee that suffering is reduced overall.
Any system of rights which bases its morality on anything but reducing suffering will ultimately once again once again give power to the most powerful people in that society.
This is because when you can pick and choose where you put your rights ultimately the powerful will have first say on what we should prefer.
But if we preference all peoples' suffering equally, we guarantee that suffering goes down in a massive way.
My final argument is about spillover.
Quite simply we think that killing these sorts of animals, destroying their welfare, ultimately has meaningful harms in the way that we adopt policy and the way that we protect our environment and by removing the rights of animals we are far more likely to make it so we don't protect our environment as effectively.
As we ultimately will make it so we pursue human extinction far more closely.