We should introduce a smoking ban.
Smoking is an incredibly unhealthy activity.
Even those people who do smoke, who don't intend to stop smoking tell other people you should never start smoking.
The physical dependence that it breeds, the health harms that it causes, ultimately means that people live shorter lives, worse lives and spend a massive amount of their disposable income on smokes.
Because we think that cigarettes are such a problematic part of our society, we think the only way that we can truly uproot them and get it out of the common conscience is by a total smoking ban.
As such, we propose the following model: that the united states federal government ban all cigarettes, all tobacco and any way in which you can consume tobacco including things like dip, chewing tobacco, any sort of way that you can get this nicotine into your system.
Three arguments why this is a good idea.
First, smoking is incredibly unhealthy first for the individual who starts smoking.
The physical dependence it's it breeds and the way it harms your lungs means that most people who start smoking will die of lung cancer.
If that doesn't happen, smoking gradually clogs your arteries, puts tar into your system and makes heart attacks far more likely.
Anyone who smokes has a considerably decreased expected life total and were we to ban smoking we think that we would massively increase the total quality of life for many people and this isn't just for the individual.
When these people spoke it harms other people in two ways.
First, if people are having more heart attacks, if people are having more cancer, if they demand more medical resources, they drive the total cost of healthcare up.
Insurance premiums are ways in which insurance companies can charge healthy people to help unhealthy people.
As such, the ultimate result of insurance policies mean that smokers will charge you more money.
Additionally, as they fill hospital rooms, as they make doctors more in demand, these individuals can demand a higher wage as well which ultimately means that healthcare becomes even less accessible particularly for people in poverty.
It's incredibly unclear why individuals who have willingly elected to smoke deserve this sort of protection above people in poverty many of whom had no say in their predicament.
Secondly though, secondhand smoke is incredibly harmful.
Children around smoking adults can also develop lung issues, can also develop asthma and developmental issues.
Adults around other adults can also be harmed by secondhand smoke.
It's just as bad if not worse in some situations as smoking or actively smoking a cigarette as the individual doing it.
My second argument is it's incredibly costly.
Each individual who smokes spends almost a thousand dollars each year just on cigarettes.
A pack a day smoker will spend far more than a thousand dollars.
This cost is fundamentally unacceptable.
Because nicotine creates an addiction because there are other addictive chemicals in cigarettes, these companies are essentially using a chemical dependence to get money out of other individuals.
We think this is fundamentally unethical and unacceptable and we don't think we should allow any company to continue profiting off of addiction and the harms it causes.
My third and final argument is that cigarettes are environmentally harmful.
The vast majority of cigarettes are simply tossed out of windows and thrown on the ground.
In my home of the pacific northwest, a lot of the time this causes forest fires which can take thousands of lives and destroy millions upon millions of dollars worth of property.
In most cases it simply kills local animals, destroys local areas, makes things look disgusting and is just a bad scene over overall.
As such, we should introduce a smoking ban order to help our environment as well.