We should abandon democracy.
If twenty seventeen has proven us one thing looking back it is that democracy does not work.
Ideologues like donald trump, truly horrific individuals like theresa may, regularly rise to power and as such, cause numerable insufferable harm to the entire world.
When putting your hands in the whole of a state a largely educated group of individuals who have no understanding of the nuance of politics and the purpose of government, the ultimate result will always be oppressive, will always be problematic, and generally be a true issue overall.
Democracy is inherently flawed and as such, should be abandoned.
The model for today's debate will be fairly simple.
We're not going to support monarchies inherently.
We're not going to support all or oligarchies inherently, but we would say that any system other than democracy is preferable.
A few reasons why.
First argument is about checks and tyranny.
With democracy it is incredibly difficult to overturn a government.
For instance, the united states has oppression inherently linked to the governmental system -specially against people of color, against sexual minorities, and a history of colonialism that will never be overturned.
It is impossible to challenge these because rather than challenging the system as a whole, we challenge individual actors within that system.
By replacing individuals within our government they get new people who will continue these oppressive systems.
With monarchies, with oligarchies, there's when you overturn a particular system, when you overturn the individuals who underlie and are the foundation of the entire political system, you inherently get change.
It is incredibly beneficial as you can truly challenge historical narratives that are oppressive through this kind of system.
My second argument is about the choices made by governments.
First off on tyranny of the majority.
With democracies tyranny of the majority is inherent.
Whenever a group of individuals are voting in their own self interest are given the option of voting in a particular way, the majority will always win.
Democracies may work in states where there is say a truly diverse population.
However, the way that the world is currently made up there very few states that have similar numbers of a variety of different races or a variety of different religions instead there are states like the USA which have about eighty percent an eighty percent christian population or even more I think my numbers might be off, and as such, the vast majority of voters are voting in a line with their christian ideals as sometimes oppressing groups that simply disagree with them.
Unfortunately, democracy will always have this outcome while a system like oligarchy or monarchy are far more likely to have meaningful change as a schism on behalf of even fifteen percent the population or a revolt on behalf of that population could also challenge power to a greater extent than they could in a democracy.
Secondly though, we think it hurts government decision making in terms of hard choices.
We saw this with jimmy carter.
Jimmy carter inherited a massive deficit, massive overspending from the reagan administration and as such, had to pass policies to fix the government.
He passed austerity, he passed higher tax rates and as such, he was voted out of office because people saw their quality of life decrease even though he helped them in the long term.
As such, there's always an incentive to screw over your political opponents through massive overspending while you are in power.
There's never an incentive to make the hard decisions making democracies inherently flawed and inherently collapsible.
My third argument is that they're prone to self destructive strategies as well.
Now when a particular group is in power and when their actions aren't necessarily reflected upon the entire government, minority parties always have an incentive to destroy the government.
We see this in the status quo.
In the past we saw democrats in power under the obama administration and republicans decided that no matter what they would past no policy.
Now republicans are in power and they're outright denying democrats political power because they understand that it could be used to hurt their own image as such, democracy ultimately ends up being anti-democratic destroying any of my opponent's arguments because in the long term democracy will always turn on its own ideals.
For this reason, we should abandon democracy.