I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should lower the drinking age.
In this round, my opponent has decided to defend a truly indefensible position.
Rather than simply lowering the drinking age, he has decided to outright remove any restrictions on the consumption of alcohol.
This will lead to a public health crisis in which individuals consume alcohol far before they should, and will cause profound third-party harms as individuals are introduced to alcohol at formative years and when they are likely to start operating heavy machinery like cars.
Before I get on to my two arguments, which are health and third-party harms, I want to briefly discuss the general model which my opponent provides.
He argues that bans on certain individuals buying alcohol, but not on banning individuals from consuming alcohol at a certain age, are all that we really need to effectively police our society, all that we need for parents to control when their children consume alcohol.
This is simply not the case.
If a young child can consume alcohol wherever they want, simply they cannot buy it, they're going to find upperclassmen at a school who will take money to buy them alcohol.
They will find individuals who are simply looking for a quick buck to buy them alcohol.
They will steal alcohol because they know they can consume it legally after that point.
Quite simply, there is no difference between a age-based restriction on buying alcohol and an age-based restriction on the consumption of alcohol, and at the point where you do one, you have immediately done the other.
Now my first argument is about health.
This is on two fronts.
First, we think the consumption of alcohol at a formative age can cause profound harms.
Individuals are developing all parts of their body, but especially the brain.
We usually say that eighteen-year-olds probably shouldn't drink because their prefrontal cortex is growing, expanding and essentially becoming more effective, and alcohol can inhibit this, but if children as young as ten are drinking alcohol, the entirety of their brain is growing.
They're forming the synapses that will be effective in living for their entire lives.
If they consume alcohol at this young age, we would say that they were likely to face profound consequences for their overall development.
They're likely to face more issues later in life, anger issues, emotional issues, as they are not able to effectively grow.
Similarly, their consumption of alcohol could very well hurt them.
These children are likely to get their understanding of alcohol from things like media, from how much their parents drink, but if they ever try to consume that much alcohol, particularly shots in a short amount of time, they could easily get alcohol poisoning.
The reason that a person like me, who is six foot five and over two hundred pounds, can consume alcohol is because it has very little effect on my body in small quantities.
But were I eighty pounds and less than four feet tall, consuming alcohol could easily put me into a comatose position, dangerously out in public, or simply cause alcohol poisoning, threatening my life.
Now my second argument is that there are third-party harm to this particular action.
We would say that individuals who have grown up drinking alcohol are more likely to drink alcohol irresponsibly, particularly when they do not have a good role model to understand that alcohol should not be abused in their day-to-day lives.
In this case, they're likely to consume alcohol around the time that they turn sixteen, when they start to learn to drive, when they start to go to a job.
We would say that individuals driving drunk can cause massive loss of life.
We'd say that people showing up to work drunk can cause mass discomfort, can cause them to lose their job, can put a stain on their resume from the very beginning.
Quite simply, these third-party harms are fundamentally unacceptable and are not a meaningful benefit when compared to the arguments my opponent gives.
Quite simply, age-based restrictions exist on a variety of fronts.
Certain rights are given to the parents, so we don't think there's any moral harm to having this age-based restriction, and similarly, we think that the utility of drinking at a later age is simply better than allowing them to drink whenever they want.
As such, we should not lower the drinking age.