We should lower the age of consent.
Although some age of consent should exist, we would say that a system which puts people in jail unjustly and is based on arbitrary biological characteristics, should be abandoned.
With that in mind, we propose the following model.
That the initial age of consent be fourteen and that anyone between the ages of fourteen and eighteen should be able to have sex with anyone within two years of their age without legal repercussions and then at the age of eighteen, that individual should be able to have sex with whoever they want who's also over the age of eighteen or within two years of them.
Three arguments to support this motion.
First that the age of consent is wholly arbitrary.
We would say that laws ought be based on empirical realities.
They ought be based on problems we see in the status quo and would like to solve.
It is essential that laws reflect reality first off, because it makes less predictable.
Individuals can understand the basics of law simply by observing the moral standards around them and as such they cannot use the defense in court oh I did not know about the law to justify why they not should not be harmed.
We would say that they ought be based on moral truths.
Secondly, we would say that it should reflect empirical realities simply because that makes the best policy possible.
We would say the purpose of law is preventing crime and educating individuals on what they should or should not do.
At the point where we base laws on wholly arbitrary characteristics we are not really creating a moral truth or a moral standard we're simply creating an arbitrary line in the sand where government has decided that action cannot be taken.
It is clear the age of consent right now is wholly arbitrary.
There's no profound change to one's body that happens at age eighteen.
We simply recognized at the age that individuals in most states can drive, have sex, and join the military.
At age fourteen however, we'd say that that's when most individuals are beginning puberty and the system which we propose where individuals can have sex with individual with other people who are similar age as them reflects the realities of their situation.
It reflects the people that they spend time with and ought to be able to consent to having sex with.
Now our second argument is that the current age of consent laws can lead to some unjust circumstances.
In the status quo, if someone is eighteen and wants to have sex with their seventeen year old girlfriend or significant other in this case, the result of having sex in that case could very well be one of the individuals going to jail.
We would say that it is not unnatural or honestly shouldn't even be discouraged when two individuals who are approximately the same age, who have been dating for sometime, and who have clearly discussed what it means to consent with with one another, should be able to have sex without government intervention.
At the point where certain individuals are being sent to jail simply because they have sexual relations with a partner who is the same age as them but simply on the other side of an arbitrary fence put in place by the government, we would say that any system which puts people in jail like that ought to be abandoned.
Or third argument is that once again that is not the right of government to take this particular action.
We would say that the good is idiosyncratic.
That it ought to be determined that certain actions ought be determined by the individuals who understand the context around those actions.
At the point where government cannot evaluate every circumstance differently, we would say they ought not pass laws in this regard.
Courts can always adjudicate about issues of pressure, issues of consent, and we would say that side opposition in this round must prove that there are unique harms that cannot otherwise be legislated by courts.
At the point where age itself is not inherently a reason why people cannot consent, we would say that the rest of the court system can determine what whether something bad has happened based on idiosyncratic principles if we simply lower the age of consent.
Thank you.