I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should ban live exports.
Live exports come in a variety of forms.
We think if an animal is abused on a farm, it's likely they'll be sent in an abusive way across the sea.
If they're raised well they'll largely be sent in a completely humane and fair way to different parts of the country or to a different country completely.
Outright banning live exports in attempt to solve some fringe cases where animals are harmed does little more than depress our economic system while harming the consumer in a variety of different areas.
We think that live exports can be shipped humanely, so if we really want to change things we can simply regulate how we do live exports without outright banning them.
We can make it so you have to care for animals more, we can make sure that there's food and water available in all of their cages, but we think that banning live exports has three main harms.
First we think it means that you have fewer products overall.
So when we ship a certain animal to a different country, when we get iberian ham from spain, when we get wagyu be from japan, these are products that don't exist in the united states or in any country where they they didn't originate.
It's not that we can even replicate them either.
Wagyu beef has to do with a long heritage genealogy and the way that these animals are fed.
The same is true with iberian ham where these pigs feed almost exclusively on mushrooms.
The capacity for us to actually recreate it goes away.
As such we think that the number of products available decreases substantially.
This isn't just fancy meats, it's also a variety of other animals that are culturally important or even just important to certain families.
The result of this is that the total amount of welfare available to american consumers decreases.
The reason why is if you have fewer options, if you have fewer products you can try, we simply think that you live a worse life.
If the only thing they could eat on a daily basis were american foods, american cuisine, I would live a far less rich life.
As such we think that limiting products is intrinsically limiting the capacity for individuals to self actualize as effectively as possible.
My second argument is that you'll have fewer sellers.
When you remove live exports, when you make it so individuals can't sell as easily, you have fewer people selling, you have fewer people competing and it's incredibly problematic.
There are two main harms to having fewer sellers.
First, prices will increase.
We think that giving individuals a larger share of the market largely increases their ability to express monopolistic power over the economy.
As such we think that prices will increase, individuals' access to food will go down, and starvation will become a real possibility for a lot of people who have not faced it before.
Secondly though, we think that reducing the total number of sellers ultimately decreases the capacity for any real innovation to occur, any real cooperation to occur, and the result of this then is that individuals are far worse off.
My third and final argument is about food shortages.
We think that the united states produces a massive amount of food, more than its own citizens could ever consume themselves, and as such we ship a lot of it across the sea to other places.
The problem is you can't really ship ham for months on end on a boat but you can ship thousands of pigs really easily and slaughter them in their destination.
The result then is that these food shortages could be solved by having live exports and other kinds of exports that require animals we sent across the sea or sent in any way other than a plane because that's really not tenable.
However, banning live exports will increase starvation on a global scale as well, ultimately hurting all people.
For this reason, we should not ban live exports.