I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should tax plastic bags.
Plastic bags have been relied upon for decades by many corporations to guarantee that their customers and employees have some resource to move their products around.
When government steps in and attempts to tax what the market has deemed an acceptable outcome, all that it does is weaken our collective efficacy and destroy the quality of life that we have all fought for.
With that in mind, I have two arguments: first about government overstep, and second about the market effects of an unjust tax.
But first, a brief overview.
I want to discuss the alternative tools and how they are just as bad as plastic bags.
The first option is paper bags.
Paper bags destroy thousands of trees every year and are generally left inside people's houses, meaning that they have a similar effect to plastic bags.
While plastic bags might be left in the landfill sometimes, paper bags are left in houses, left in gutters, and generally are just as problematic as these plastic bags.
With that in mind, we believe that taxing plastic bags will just make people turn towards paper bags instead.
They'll be angry because paper bags are harder to carry and because they're more liable to break and so, instead of using a single plastic bag, corporations will use three to four paper bags each time, meaning that the total environmental effect will be considerably worse.
The alternative is reusable bags.
Unfortunately, we don't think that corporations have an incentive to give these bags out for free, and individuals don't have an incentive to buy these sort of bags, given that paper bags are are available, and they usually forget these reusable bags.
With that in mind, my opponent must necessarily demonstrate that other forms of bags are not just as bad as plastic bags if they would like to win this debate.
My first argument then is about government overstep, because even if you don't buy the alternatives argument, we believe the government has no right to tax these kinds of items.
There are two theories of taxation: first, simply to raise revenue.
This is uncontroversial.
The second is that taxes are used to incentivize or disincentivize particular behavior.
We believe that government levying its power to drain you economically is a profound rights violation.
The government has a monopoly on force and as such, it can make you do whatever it wants.
Attacking your finances because of the options that you and a corporation have decided upon is necessarily violating your rights and violating the protection that is required for a state to have a monopoly on violence.
We believe that taxes should taxes should only be used when there is a profound and urgent government need, that is to say, for things like cigarettes, we believe that if individuals do not stop using them, they could easily die in a few years, and individuals around them will live a considerably worse quality of life.
My opponent must demonstrate why plastic bags have a similar effect, otherwise this is a vast overstep of government power and cannot be accepted.
My second argument, though, is about market effects.
The market determines the most efficient allocation of resources.
It allows corporations to set a price and for customers to respond.
If it is not at equilibrium, customers will be disgruntled because they will not be getting as many products as they would like, and corporations will be unhappy because they're not maximizing their profits.
Eventually, it turns towards equilibrium, guaranteeing that all parties are happy.
We believe the government ought not step in to violate the market.
The market is the supreme arbiter of justice and the most important way in which we can actually improve the environment.
Only when the government has convinced the people that this is a good idea, that they should be charged for plastic bags, should it institute this kind of tax.
For this reason, we should not tax plastic bags.