Single-sex schools should be banned.
Single sex schools facilitate incredibly problematic norms that are largely passed down generation through generation and ultimately decrease the educational value of these institutions.
Given that private schools are largely single-sex schools and that single sex schools are almost completely private schools we would further say that they undermine the public school system.
With that in mind, we would propose the following model: that all single-sex schools in the united states should be banned.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first regarding comprehensive education, second on the effect of single-sex schools on school organization, and third on whyy private schools are bad.
So why don't single-sex schools provide a comprehensive education?
We believe that a comprehensive sex education occurs both in the classroom and in in your interactions among students.
We think that for instance online school is not the most effective way for individuals to be educated because it does not allow them to engage with other individuals effectively.
To this end we would also say that single-sex schools are not effective because it does not allow you to engage with individuals from different genders.
This is problematic as it will prevent you from being effective as a student in the long term.
We would further to say that extracurriculars are largely hurt due to single-sex schools.
Although you may be able to have more niche more masculine extracurriculars in all-male schools and more niche more feminine extracurriculars in all-female schools we think this is inherently railroading and largely puts individuals into classes and extracurriculars that are based on their gender rather than what they want to do.
I think that women should be able to take metal shop, we think that men should be able to take dancing classes, and all that splitting the genders does is make it so individual cannot access things that the society does not seem as correct for their gender.
This is doubly problematic as we believe the state has an obligation to provide effective education for all people so failing to provide a comprehensive sex education is a rights violation on behalf of the students.
My second argument is about the effect of a single-sex school on school organization.
We think that the schools largely have a conservative culture for a few reasons.
First we think that there is an inherent fear of homosexuality at these schools which has been prevalent throughout history given that you largely put a lot of teenagers together who are facing their hormones, who are trying to learn about their bodies but at the same time saying that sex is inherently taboo and largely creating a homophobic culture both from students and from faculty you see incredible abuse among students and towards students in the school particularly for students who are deemed deviant.
This is incredibly true for LGBTQ individuals who will be tortured mercilessly when they're sent these single-sex schools.
We would further say that single-sex schools make it incredibly difficult for individuals to learn effectively in terms of how they want to address themselves politically given that the schools are largely conservative, given that conservatives are largely the individuals who are leaning toward single-sex schools.
My third argument is about why private schools are bad.
Now we think that private schools single-sex schools are largely private schools given that public schools do not have the money or do not have the organization to make a single-sex schools even though magnet schools can be private schools these schools also take money from public schools which would otherwise be going to the poorest individuals.
We think that transferring money to wealthier areas and wealthier schools at the cost of public schools is a theft from the poorest individuals and a true rights violation which cannot be ignored.
For this reason, single sex schools should be banned.