We should fight the BDS movement.
The BDS movement stands for boycott, divest and sanction israel.
The purpose of the movement is to get israel to stop settling in palestinian land.
Now the issue with any tactic, particularly economic manipulation, is is if the tactic is not efficacious, does not get the outcomes which you are seeking, then it ought to be outright abandoned.
The BDS movement does not achieve the goals that it would like to achieve, and it hurts the poorest individuals who would otherwise have no say over the settlements.
With this in mind, we would propose the following model: that the BDS movement should be outright abandoned and that political efficacy should be turned towards other political goals, such as creating a discourse with israel rather than sanctioning it.
My first argument is that sanctions are ineffective.
Three reasons why: first, sanctions hurt the poorest people within the society.
Recognize that the individuals who are mostly creating the sanctions are ultra-orthodox, individuals who do not consume a massive amount of western media, and anyone who is otherwise critical of israel, they wouldn't consume even if they weren't boycotting israel.
This means that all that this is actually harming is the poorest people in israel who do not have the ability to leave the state to consume other media, who can't see, for instance, a mariah carey concert in another country, because they are stuck within the state.
Additionally, it only hurts the people who would otherwise consume this media.
As such, these individuals have incredibly little political efficacy.
The wealthiest individuals can always get around the sort of divestment movement, and it generally will create no meaningful change.
Now the second reason why sanctions are ineffective is that they generally create solidarity against the sanctioner.
Sanctions are only effective if the state is universally sanctioned and if the state wants western acceptance.
We would say that israel is not universally sanctioned, so they can always turn to other media to consume.
Additionally, they don't want western acceptance if that western acceptance is existentially against their goals.
Given that many parts of the BDS movement say that israel is fundamentally corrupt or inadequate, it's unlikely that individuals will ever meaningfully want to cooperate with them.
As such, all that this does is create solidarity within israel in favor of settlements, making it harder to change the political regime, and it creates solidarity abroad, where more investment and more donations go to israel, which largely controls a decent part of their central planning.
Finally, it isolates the community.
We think that the most effective way to create change is if artists and other individuals go into the state of israel and advocate for their goals.
All that this does is isolate a community away from the voices that would otherwise try to convince them that they may be acting unethically.
My second argument is that this doesn't address the root problem.
Now the problem, once again, is that ultra-orthodox settlements are being created on palestinian land without thorough regulation and vetting.
As a result, we think that the individuals who are causing the most problems are never actually affected by this kind of policy.
Because of this, we think that it will be near impossible to create any meaningful amount of change with the BDS movement, seeing as the people making the decisions aren't actually affected.
Additionally, we think that this also hurts palestinians and muslims within the state of israel.
A large section of israel are the muslim population who also lived there when israel's created.
As such, we think that the BDS movement, by outright boycotting the region and generally not operating within the state of israel, also harms people who have a rights claims to justice, who are within israel itself.
As such, the BDS movement is ineffective, unjust, and generally should be abandoned.