For government paternalism to be just it must meet a very high bar in terms of scrutiny.
If we do not question every prohibition placed upon the people by the government with this sort of scrutiny, we will inevitably fall into fascist leanings and authoritarian policies.
Because the speed limit represents a gross overstep of government obligation and government rights, we believe that we should cancel the speed limit in all western liberal democracies.
Two independent arguments to support this motion: first, the speed limit is horribly inefficient.
This can be seen at the grossest and simplest level in terms of simple time.
If I can only go fifty miles per hour on a very long trip I lose out on a huge amount of time, potentially large amounts of money and it's bad for everyone.
Even at the most surface level the inability to go fast decreases the increases costs in terms of transportation, in terms of food transported by truck and other products transported by truck, generally it makes the economy worse and wastes important time, which is the most valuable resource for the vast majority of individuals.
But additionally it can largely lead to bumper to bumper traffic.
The reason this sort of traffic occurs is because individuals do not have wide open spaces.
When individuals are vying to get ahead of one another that is when the bumper to bumper traffic occurs.
And when every single lane is going at approximately the same speed individuals are far more likely to exist in close proximity.
And this is largely what happens in the status quo.
Even the slow lane is going approximately the speed limit.
However if we cancel the speed limit and the fast lane can go as fast as they want and the slow lane can go at perhaps a recommended speed limit, we get a far greater variety and are far less likely to face bumper to bumper traffic.
Now, traffic with this sort of proximity is incredibly dangerous because this is where the vast majority of accents actually occur, as when individuals are incredibly close to one another.
It leads to a huge loss of time.
Honestly, each traffic jam which occurs can lead to hundreds of thousands of dollars lost as individuals cannot get to their jobs, or cannot deliver products on time, but it is also the least gas efficient option.
When individuals have are in stop and go traffic, it takes a huge amount of their gas, it's bad for the environment and bad for their wallets as well.
And very simply, when governments have the option to limit this sort of harm to their citizens they ought to so.
As such, we should cancel the speed limit.
Now the second independent argument is the idea of rights.
We believe that the right to transportation is absolute.
Although a current prohibitions exist on things like seat belts and and helmets, what the speed limit is unique insofar as it limits the mode of transportation.
While helmets and seat belts do not get in the way of individuals actually traveling, speed limits do.
Because the right to transportation is essential for government legitimacy - if individuals can't leave the state they cannot consent to the state - we believe that any infringement upon the right to transportation must be hugely, must be inherently important and hugely beneficial to the people.
Additionally we would say that the vast majority of speed limits are fundamentally logically incoherent.
We think that a fifty to sixty mile per hour speed limit, with modern technology, is wholly unnecessary.
However it's unlikely that we will ever change that speed limit because no one wants to be the politician who put more children or more parents in danger by getting rid of the speed limit, which many individuals would perceive as the case.
Without drastic policy individuals will continue to have their rights infringed, continue to lose money as a result of the speed limit, and as such we should cancel the speed limit.