The vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
There are few christian institutions as antiquated as the vow of celibacy.
It represents a sexual restriction upon all priests which make them frustrated, which enforced other antiquated tradition and inevitably leads to sexual abuse.
Because we think the vow of celibacy has no place in the modern world, we support the following model that all christian authorities which currently enforce the vow of celibacy should abandon it.
This means we're not just talking about catholicism in the vatican.
We would say that the the most powerful individuals in each part of christianity or even any religion which uses a vow of celibacy should abandon it.
Two arguments for why this is true.
First is antiquated.
We would say that the vow of celibacy is a part of a collection of rules enforced by catholic and christian ideology which we think must be removed.
It's things that ban female priests.
It's policies which make it so you can't even have gluten free eucharists.
As these policies are enforced by powerful christian authorities, many individuals are harmed.
We would say that the idea that the church cannot be fluid is incredibly toxic and leads to many individuals first leaving the church, but secondly being harmed as they're pushed into the arms of the church.
Recognize that many individuals don't consent to the religion that they're actually being a part of.
Unless someone converted they were likely socialized by their parents, by the community, to believe a particular religion and join a particular community.
As such there's an obligation among the leaders to these individuals to create the best religion possible.
Any standards, any rules, which continually harm these individuals which paint the entire religion in a bad light must be removed and we would say that the vow of celibacy is a good first step.
It will likely lead to the abandonment of other antiquated traditions as powerful christian authorities accept the idea that their religion is fluid as they did throughout the last century.
The second argument very simply is the idea of sexual abuse.
All human beings lust after other humans.
Sexual activity is incredibly natural and the vow of celibacy as something which bans sexual activity is inherently unnatural.
As such it forces priests into one of two worlds, either they're sexually frustrated, do not get to embrace the whole of human nature and the whole of human existence, which we think is first fundamentally unjust and secondly, should just be removed to expand the religion or and sadly, incredibly commonly, they turn to sexual abuse of minors or individuals who they think that they can abuse without the secret getting out.
The reason that priests target children regularly, the reason they target other individuals who are not likely to speak about the issue is that they won't tell because if a certain actor were to tell that the priest broke the vow of celibacy they could very well be kicked out of the church.
We would say that any system which pushes people to commit sexual acts against children, against marginalized and otherwise unheard communities, is fundamentally unjust and there is no excuse for the continuation of these policies.
Furthermore, we'd say that this creates a trend where powerful christian authorities no longer defend sexual abuse.
We would say that some sexual predators exist in the catholic church in the status quo regardless of the vow of celibacy.
However, because it is so normalized things like the vatican refuse to charge these individuals or even to help local authorities try these people when they abuse children.
Because we think this is bad and because we think huge numbers of children can be protected, we believe that the vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
Thank you.