We stand in firm opposition to the motion: we should abolish no knock warrants.
Before I get onto my two arguments I'd like to provide three overviews: first, these are based on the rulings of a judge.
No-knock warrants only occur occur when a judge feels it is necessary.
Besides the fact that many judges in the united states are fairly liberal and understand the implications of a no knock warrant, generally they don't wanna have a huge amount of blood on their hands or generally make society worse.
At the point where judges get to determine when this actually occurs, we think they can use their restraint to make sure they are only used in the most utile situations.
The second overview is that police officers, during no-knock warrants, typically wear swat gear and have swat equipment.
This is useful because unlike a regular warrant, where regular police officers must go to the door, swat officers typically have greater protection and are trained in suppression rather than killing individuals.
They are used for things like riots and preventing large scale escalation so they're less likely to pull the trigger and more likely to simply incapacitate a criminal using non lethal means.
Third and finally, extreme examples do not prove that this motion is true or false.
Thousands of warrants are issued every single year, both no-knock and otherwise, so we must discuss the general policy and strategy of no-knock warrants rather than the rare cases in which an incorrect warrant is provided.
The first argument we'd like to provide is that this protects officers.
Now, people don't usually answer the door with a gun.
When you just break down the door it is unlikely they will run and get their gun.
However, if you knock on the door and say: " this is the police ", a criminal has the ability to slip out a side door with a gun in their hand.
Now, individuals have given up their rights to the vast majority of their protection at the point where they have broken society's laws and have had a no-knock warrant issued against them.
These aren't issued in the cases of misdemeanors, they're issued when felonies have occurred, that is, laws have been violated which the whole of society feels are imperative to their protection.
Furthermore, the individuals having swat gear on, makes it less likely that they'll be harmed by a a single individual with a gun.
At this point we think that police officers are far more protected when a no-knock warrant occurs because criminals do not have the opportunity to grab a gun and they are also better equipped.
Additionally though, the criminal is far less likely to be harmed as well, given that swat officers typically have things like riot shields and other ways to incapacitate a criminal without using lethal force.
Now the second argument we'd like to discuss is the idea of evidence.
Now justice is the primary and most important goal of the criminal justice system.
When a criminal has committed a crime, it is imperative that justice is occurred otherwise the victim feels harmed, continues to feel unsafe and the whole of society is wronged insofar as their laws and voices have been mitigated by a particular criminal's actions.
Now it is very easy for for criminals to flush drugs down the toilet or even destroy other evidence.
When catching someone who's been convicted of creating or distributing illegal pornography, for instance, it is easy for them to destroy their hard drive when they understand the cops are coming.
There are a variety of laws which can easily be hidden by a criminal who knows the cops are coming to their door.
Additionally though, even if you buy will's analysis that the war on drugs is the primary usage of no-knock warrants, at the point where the whole of society has determined this is good and that we defer to the democratic process to decide what is right, we believe that is imperative that cops can actually enforce the law.
As such, we oppose the motion: we should abolish no-knock warrants.