I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should legalize doping in sports.
Doping is incredibly problematic in that it is very unhealthy.
My opponent rests their entire advocacy on the idea that some people dope now so we should let all people do it but legalizing it will lead to a frenzy in which all individuals will hurt themselves simply to get money from a sports which they've been coerced into being part of.
With that mind, I have two arguments.
First, on the coercive aspects of professional sports and second, on the precedence put forth by legalizing doping in sports but first some extraneous rebuttal.
My opponent's first argument that individuals and particularly athletes are already very likely to get injured or harmed through professional sports as such, because people get concussions regularly because they're more likely to be pushing into drugs, they should also be allowed to dope.
This is incredibly foolish.
Every time that someone gets on their motorcycle they are very likely to be hurt because motorcycles simply aren't the most safe thing in the world.
That's not a reason that we should remove the brakes, remove the handlebars from a motorcycle simply because these people will already be hurt at a higher incidence.
Simply put, we should always maximize the amount of safety that we can allow individuals to actually have.
If that safety would truly impede with accessing the sport there's an argument to be to remove it however, doping is not a requirement for sports and as such, it should not be allowed simply because of the health harms of it as I will get on to later.
Second argument is about how this levels the playing field but it's actually very likely that this will level the playing field for a few reasons.
First, doping is not incredibly prevalent in the status quo.
It is incredibly high risk it means that you lose any chance of being in a hall of fame or actually getting MVP and are less likely to get a meaningful contract in the future as you are both less likely to perform well and will be seen as bad PR for whatever team recruits you.
Additionally, in the status quo individuals who dope dope in small amounts.
That means that even though they dope, it's not a meaningful amount of advantage they get over their competitors.
If we legalize it, individuals will dope at a massively increased scale that is to say, if they get a little bit every week now they'll do it at a mass amount every day to increase their chances and they will generally have a more tilted playing field given that certain individuals individuals will be willing to sacrifice their body more than others which will mean that they'll have a greater advantage.
This brings me to my first argument about coercion.
Many individuals in pro sports are there as a way to get out of poverty.
Many individuals who come from south america to play baseball, many individuals who live in poor communities and are pulled up into basketball or football or get that way because they do not have a meaningful choice through other forms of education and empowerment.
This means that in the status quo, they do have to access something problematic, something dangerous, to actually engage with their dreams.
By introducing and legalizing doping, we will force individuals who are in poverty or even just who are middle class but dreamed about being an athlete their whole life to sacrifice their health and their bodies and push their bodies to the limit simply to be a member of the sports that they once idolized.
So destroy people's bodies even though now people who turned forty after being an athlete are likely to have major issues.
This will essentially guarantee that the lifespan of the average professional athlete is forty at most as their brain, body, and spirit will deteriorate as they are pushed to use drugs on a daily basis.
Leads me to my second argument about precedent.
We should always emphasize player safety.
In a world in which we say that entertainment is more important than safety, that's where we see boxing without gloves.
That's where we see football without helmet.
That's where we see blood and gore on the field is simply to fulfill the bloodlust of individuals.
The most entertain that spectators everywhere was likely in the coliseum as they saw gladiators battle to the death.
That being said, we would never introduce this because it is inhumane and awful.
We must have a precedent that prioritizes player safety over the entertainments of the individuals watching the sports.
As such, we should not legalize doping in sports.