I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should abolish antisocial behavior orders.
Antisocial behavior orders are acts which currently exist in the united kingdom which force individuals to give up a particular action which has been deemed obnoxious, harassment, or otherwise problematic to the neighborhood.
The enforcement of these antisocial behavior acts are essentially naming and shaming.
Their names and activities are put in local media, and these individuals are given shame for their action and sometimes a small fine.
Antisocial behavior orders allow the community to truly police itself rather than forcing legal options to get involved which ultimately are far more harmful.
I have two arguments in today's debate: first, why it's preferable to jail and large fines and secondly, on how a social determination is good, but first some brief rebuttal.
Opponent's first argument is that there's a right to be mean.
I would agree.
There's some right to be mean and as such, we give the courts judicial independence and judicial jurisdiction and discretion, which allows them to decide what is truly a criminal offense.
We would say that someone being too loud on the phone on the bus probably isn't a criminal offense.
Someone harassing people and saying that they want to essentially deport all muslims probably ought to be a criminal offense, as it makes the entire neighborhood inhospitable for a particular type of people.
There's a right to be mean, but there is not a right to be unnecessarily cruel.
Secondly, my second second argument is that there is no universal standard for good.
I agree, as such, things on the border are not likely to be charged.
However, heinous offense against the community, mass graffiti which has no social purpose, will ultimately be charged with these antisocial behavior orders.
While there's no universal standard, we see communities policing their themselves and because the good is determined idiosyncratically, the only meaningful good is those which is defined by the community.
My first argument for why we should not abolish antisocial behavior orders is that they are preferable to jail in two regards.
First off is efficacy.
We think that individuals are more likely to stop a problematic behavior if they are not sent to jail.
This is because we think that individuals are more afraid of being named and shamed than being put in, say, the county jail.
They also see it as far more likely than actually being put in jail rather than being hit with a fine.
As such, they are less likely or more likely to stop the problematic behavior outright.
Additionally, though, we think that sending people to jail ultimately makes it so they're more likely to become criminals.
Unsurprisingly, putting someone in a room full of criminals who, many of whom are career criminals, ultimately makes them more likely to commit a crime.
It doesn't matter if this is a social club or if it is prison.
As such, sending people to jail inherently leads to recidivism and repetition of the crimes.
If we truly want to end problematic norms in a society, we must allow things like antisocial behavior orders rather than jail from occurring.
Additionally, it is the only way to justly check problematic norms in society.
If someone is too loud on a nightly basis, it's not good if they're hit with a huge fine which makes it impossible for them to continue living.
It is good if they are named and shamed, because they can continue to get through the day even though this punishment has occurred.
My second argument is about social determination.
The only good is that which is decided idiosyncratically by the community.
The good stems from the will of the people and stems from individuals' own autonomy.
Expressing legal norms and requiring the state to take all people's opinion into account whenever it tries to try someone either means that there's an overemphasis of problematic things or an underemphasis of goods of good norms within the community.
The only way to truly reflect the will of the people is to have the community police itself, which occurs through these antisocial behavior orders.
Thank you.