We should ban child actors.
When child labor laws were first being instituted in the united states, there were activists who said that banning child labor was essentially unjust towards children and a gross violation of the rights of parents and store owners.
This is clearly absurd.
Banning child labor allowed children to flourish in terms of their education, gave them more free time, and largely decreased the mortality rate among children, particularly from the ages of like middle school to high school.
However, when these laws were being drafted, certain contingencies and exceptions were put in place in order to fulfill or otherwise calm down the individuals who were pro-child labor.
One such exception was allowing children to continue to be actors in an abusive marketplace, essentially allow them to have their own resources abused by their parents.
We think that this policy is horribly outdated and as such, should be removed.
We support the following model, then, which is that there'll be no more child actors in any western state.
They'll essentially be banned outright.
We think that students should still be allowed to be in plays.
We still think that things thrown by their schools should be allowed, however, they cannot be paid for these sort of things, and the consumption of these plays must only be done through nonprofits, that is to say, you can pay for a ticket to go to a play that children are in but if it's not being thrown by a nonprofit, it will be made illegal.
Two arguments for why this is a good idea: first, we don't think that acting is meaningfully different from other work.
The only way in which we can have just government policy is if there are strong and meaningful philosophical pillars that support it.
When laws are arbitrary, when there is not a strong basis to the law itself, we think that government is able to express its will in unjust ways.
If they cannot meaningfully support a policy as being a benefit to the whole of society, it should not be put in place.
Why do we think that being a child actor is no not meaningfully different from other work?
First, there's no difference in consent.
Whether they're working the assembly line or whether they're a child actor, they cannot necessarily understand the implications of what they'll have to do.
They cannot understand the work day, how hard they might be pushed by the people around them, or even the dangers involved with the job.
As such, we think we are violating their rights when we push them to be child actors.
Second, we think it will always detract from education.
It doesn't matter if I'm spending all day in a factory or all day on stage, I'm still not learning.
We think that only the wealthiest child actors, those who are put in massive hits, get this sort of education on the side and as such, the vast majority of students are pushed out of schools when they become child actors.
We don't think you can form policy on just the best-off students.
You should always cater to the worst-off in order to protect them as they are the least likely protection from their own parents and industry.
Additionally, we think that parents are far more likely to ignore and exploit their children and abuse their resources and as such, there's no meaningful benefit to the children themselves.
My second argument is that the entertainment industry is particularly bad.
First, we think that many directors subscribe to abusive ideologies.
If you look at stanley kubrick, if you look at famous directors throughout time, they have used abusive tactics in order to get incredible performances out of their actors.
We think this is, on face, horrendous.
We think that harassing someone just to make " the birds " is not a just outcome.
However, when it's done to children, we think it's particularly bad.
The fact that abusive directors are essentially part of this continuation, part of a long lineage of directors who have continuously used their position to abuse their workers, is fundamentally unjust.
Additionally, we think that abuse, whether it be physical or sexual, is far more prevalent in entertainment as this is one of these spheres in which children are more likely to work and be coerced to follow the orders of an adult who is not their legal guardian.
As such, we should ban child actors.