We should encourage self-employment.
Self-employment allows individuals to self-actualize far more easily.
When you can define your hours, your subject, your entire work experience, you're far more likely to appreciate and understand and enjoy what you're doing.
Even if you don't, you will always have the option of leaving self-employment, which means that you can either passionately pursue your goals or, if you truly feel that self-employment isn't for you, you can move back into the job industry.
Luckily, self-employment is available to many individuals.
Unfortunately, for far more people, self-employment is simply unsustainable.
They do not have the money, the time, or the resources to actually sustain themselves within self-employment.
This is, in part, due to the fact that self-employment is difficult, but also due to the fact that there's a tax on self-employment which makes it far more difficult to actually work under your own purview.
To that end, we would propose the following model: that tax breaks be given to all individuals who self-employ, who work for themselves and create their own businesses.
Three arguments why is a good idea: first, we think that competition is generally good.
When we introduce self-employment, many more small firms will enter the market.
If someone has an idea for graphic processing units, they'll likely try to implement it.
If they have an idea for creating popcorn, they'll try to implement it.
Ultimately, far more firms means far more competition.
Even if they're creating differentiated products, if the products are similar and if they can be substituted with one another, they will ultimately affect each other's prices and markets.
This is important because the more competition, the more likely that the cost of a good will actually meet the socially utile cost of that good.
That is to say, it will reflect what people want and how much they want to consume of that particular good.
When there aren't many firms, it's unlikely to hit this equilibrium, given that companies aren't constantly pushed to decrease their prices.
We're far more likely to approach a free market with more firms in the industry.
This improves consumer rights and improves the ability to spend money efficiently.
My second argument is that this will improve workers' rights.
How is this the case?
First, we think that individuals will always have the opportunity to leave their job.
In when managing someone, you are ultimately trying to make it so the opportunity cost of leaving is just a little bit too high so they do not want to leave their job.
It is the best way in which you can guarantee that your workers continue to work for you, while not spending extra money trying to keep them there unnecessarily.
We think that making it so self-employment is always an option effectively decreases unemployment, both because people will now work for themselves, but also because the opportunity cost of leaving will always be less than it would be if you had literally no other options and couldn't self-employ.
This makes it so workers have greater leverage over their bosses and allows them to negotiate far more efficiently for higher wages and better working conditions.
My third and final argument is simply about more options.
We think that allowing people to try out more things, to do different things, and experience different experiences ultimately improves their quality of life.
If I can try self-employment, I'm far more likely to either appreciate my job more or to move into self-employment where I'm truly happy.
For this reason, we should encourage self-employment.