Hunting should be banned.
Hunting is a fundamentally unethical act.
We believe that taking the life of an animal, particularly when done for sport, is unjust and ultimately it leads to a less humane society.
With that in mind we would propose the following model: that no hunting for sport should ever be allowed and that there should be strong limits on all other forms of hunting.
We won't prevent farmers from shooting wolves that are actively trying to kill their sheep, but if they want to even kill wolves on their land they'll have to apply for a permit and justify their need with past aggression and past harms that have been done upon them.
We would say that hunting for any purpose other than total efficiency should be banned.
Three arguments for why this is a good idea: first, we think that hunting is immoral.
Hunting can lead to massive harms against animals.
We think that bow hunting and hunting for sport largely depends on shooting the animal, letting it run until it dies and just following it the entire time.
We think this is inhumane under any system of morality.
Even under our current laws we would say that this is unjust and should be illegal.
We prevent similar things from being done to animals on the street and for pets as well.
There's no reason why an animal in the forest, who literally has no obligations to humanity and has in no way consented or even stayed around in our society, should be subject to these harms as well.
We'd also say a stronger system of morality should be advocated for in our legal system for animals.
Why is this the case?
First we think that a system of morality should be universal.
This is to say if a human body with only a heartbeat but no brain activity is subject to certain rights, then anything with greater levels of consciousness feeling and emotion should be given the same rights.
We would also say that certain animals are more effective at certain tasks than humans.
Even mental tasks as well.
With it, any system of morality which protects these individuals should also protect animals.
Animals have sentience, largely have communities and can can express emotion, as demonstrated in scientific experiments.
As such they should be provided the same system of morality.
If my opponent wants to suggest that animals do not have rights, they need to articulate the system a system which otherwise gives humans rights while preventing and also having rights which does not also restrict the access to these rights by other humans.
My second argument is about how this is an excuse for guns.
We think that guns cause a huge number of deaths each year.
However, we allow individuals to have them because they're for hunting.
When someone claims that their machine gun is primarily there to hunt deer, there's nothing that the government can do to restrict their access to it.
Because we provide a right to hunting as well.
We would say that because hunting is an excuse for guns and then guns cause mass amounts of deaths every year, by banning hunting we will have an easier access to banning things like guns which can cause massive loss of life.
The ultimate result of this is that individuals will lose access to guns, will lose access to hunting, but thousands upon thousands of lives will be saved.
People will feel less threatened and they'll be less robberies every year, which is ultimately a justifiable harm for the benefits that we get.
My third argument is just about the standard for a government ban.
We think that the government can ban something if there's massive third party harms.
Guns obviously have that due to the the numbers of deaths that are caused by accidental gun use every year.
If people if the victim can't advocate for themselves in these transactions, we think that animals can advocate for themselves in the terms of gun violence also can't advocate for a way to stop people from shooting them.
Finally we think of violent acts should be outright banned by the government.
This clearly fits all three criteria and as such should be subject to a ban.
Thank you.