I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
Unisex bathrooms are far more efficient and far less politicized than single-gender bathrooms.
It is very odd to have to refer to bathrooms as a political space or a locus of power.
Unfortunately members of both the far-left and the far-right have made the usage of bathrooms by trans individuals an inherently political issue.
Because we think that individuals ought to have the right to use a bathroom wherever they go regardless of their gender identity, unisex bathrooms provide a clear and depolitical solution to the issue.
If this motion were we should have less unisex bathrooms it would still be incredibly clear that unisex bathrooms are better.
But at the point where it wants to prohibit unisex bathrooms for government policy, it becomes laughably incorrect to support this motion.
First an overview.
This is a vast overstep of government power.
Why is this the case?
First it denies many individuals a space that they can use effectively.
We think that many individuals literally cannot go outside if they do not have a a space where they can actually use the bathroom.
When governments essentially says that people ought not have a place where they can use a bathroom wherever they go whether that's that's because there's no bathroom that fits their gender identity or simply because the space that they're going only has a bathroom for a single gender, we would say that unisex bathrooms provide a clear solution.
With this in mind, we would say that government is overstepping its power when it tries to define land use and stop individuals from building unisex bathrooms and to designate them as such.
There's no evidence to suggest that unisex bathrooms have any higher rates of assault, any issues in terms of efficiency and at that point government stepping in and banning individuals from using the land that the way they see fit is essentially trampling their property rights which we think is inherently problematic.
Even more so we would say this is a form of discrimination as individuals who identify as trans or even individuals who are not typically part of a space where there are very few bathrooms are generally abused by policies that would prohibit unisex bathrooms.
At the point where government is massively overstepping its bounds while also forcing individuals who have no place to use the bathroom when they go into public we it becomes incredibly put clear that we ought not support this motion.
Now although it may seem fairly benign that individuals can't use the bathroom, when you cannot use the bathroom you cannot engage in public spaces or engage politically.
Why is this the case?
If when I leave the house go anywhere more than an hour away there's no guarantee I'll be able to use a bathroom, I cannot leave my house.
Sure I can walk across the street to the market or go to the store every so often but any major outing, any major protest, any major action where I will be out of my house for four or more hours becomes impossible as I I'm given a simple choice.
Wet myself or go all the way back home every time I need to use the bathroom.
This is inherently problematic and denies individuals their speech and political rights.
Now my second argument is that unisex bathrooms are far more efficient.
The whole of will's first argument is about the cost of unisex bathrooms about how they are too big and problematic.
So he's probably referring to disability bathrooms.
Now the reason that they are unisex is because it doesn't make much sense to take such a large space and build one for women and one for men.
Now it's considerably more expensive when you ban unisex bathrooms and anyone who wants to use one of these larger bathrooms these disability bathrooms go to the one that they must identify with.
Must build twice as many in these kinds of cases.
Now normal unisex bathrooms, the one you see on college campuses who have decided to adopt the unisex bathroom policy are actually typically just the same size as normal bathrooms and have the same facilities as regular bathrooms.
This means that anyone can use them at any time so rather than there being a huge line at a single-gender bathroom, all facilities will always be used to maximum efficiency in unisex bathrooms.
As such it becomes incredibly clear that we should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.