I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize investigative journalism.
Although journalism is a hallmark of our democracy, having government meddle in it will inevitably undermine the institution while decreasing the public's trust in it.
For journalism to ever be effective it must be free of all external influence and also depend on the will of the people rather than the power of individual bureaucrats or the government writ large.
I have two arguments in today's debate for why we should not subsidize investigative journalism.
They will demonstrate quite clearly how important info and important democratic principles cannot get to the public despite my opponent's claims.
My first argument is about the bias that subsidization instills in investigative journalism.
When money enters journalism, there are always problematic outcomes.
Regardless of if advertisers join the fray or if the public subsidizes it writ large, there will always be problems.
However there are particularly pernicious harms when the government steps in.
A few ways this happens.
First we think government capture is inevitable as long as they subsidize the journalism industry.
This occurs for two reasons.
First, there will be a general chilling effect on journalists who believe they cannot investigate government corruption or the corruption of certain corporations or organizations close to the government.
They will be afraid that if they spend their time and money on this effort, their stories could not be published or worse they fear that they could lose their jobs overall.
The second way that the capture can occur is if editors are pressured by the government.
We think that editors are the ultimately the way point between the journalist and the public.
If they decide they do not want to publish any articles critical of the government in fear of losing their subsidy, than they will do just that.
They will shut down any journalist who attempts to write these kinds of issues and generally make the press less free.
This can occur just because of the optics of capture as well.
We think it even if the government has no intention of harming particular firms that publish critical articles about the government, if journalists fear that they might journalists will not publish those articles.
Additionally if the public sees journalists as being captured by the government in terms of money influencing their journalistic goals then they will not believe the public.
We live in the era of fake news where the public can turn away from the news in a moment's notice.
As such we think that the public will get less accurate information and less important information which would otherwise get to them.
As such they cannot hold their institutions as accountable, whether that is the government or other corporations and as such the very democratic principles that our nation was founded on will be undermined.
My second argument is about the market effects of subsidization and how it will harm particular industries.
First we think it'll push out other forms of journalism.
This occurs because given the choice between paying a journalist a full wage for simple reporting on not investigative journalism versus paying a subsidized wage for investigative journalism editors will always choose the latter.
In this way other forms of journalism which are equally as important will fall through the cracks and stop being as prominent.
This means that the public will get even less information as all journalists will simply chase random stories that are subsidized by the public.
The second way that the market is harmed is that it will make news more partisan.
We think investigative journalism is inherently partisan as it depends on idiosyncraticly determined conceptions of the good to determine what to investigate and what to label as bad.
As such simple reporting on the facts will cease to exist and investigative journalism will take over creating a greater schism in our country than currently exists.
As such we should not subsidize investigative journalism.