I stand in firm opposition to the motion: blood donations should be mandatory.
When the government attempts to tell us what we can or cannot do with our body, it is a fundamental impeachment of our ability to truly control ourselves.
We think the value of autonomy is largely understated in our present-day world.
Most individuals, particularly men, have no experience with the government attempting to regulate how exactly they control their body.
Women have some more experience with the government trying to tell them what they can and cannot do with certain parts their body, but we think that mandating blood donation would largely be the most egregious violation of bodily autonomy that any government has ever seen.
Although there may be small benefits, some small gains to utility, we think that, ultimately, the massive harms that result from this make it fundamentally unacceptable.
I have two arguments, but first some brief rebuttal.
My opponent says that this will be a massive boon, that people around the world will be so much more empowered as a result of blood donations.
This is simply not true.
We do not see a massive shortage of blood in the status quo.
The only time that we see a shortage of blood is when there's a natural disaster, in which case, massive swaths of the community usually get together to donate blood in the first place.
Furthermore, we think that in many cases, blood donation simply will not be that necessary in the coming years, as artificial blood has been developed in labs and is currently undergoing testing.
As such, this largely is not necessary, particularly with the rights violations that it entails.
My first argument is about biopower, about bodily autonomy, and about where government rights end.
We think that individuals can only define themselves in a society given rights, if they define themselves against the government.
Each of the rights outlined in the bill of rights and in the constitution is either a command for how the government will act or a prohibition on what the government can do to the average individual.
It says the government cannot enter houses and quarter soldiers.
It says that we have a right to own particular items like guns, says the government cannot stop us from saying certain things.
We think that implicit within those rights is the right for the government or to not to the government take things out of our bodies.
As articulated in roe v wade, in the decision there, we saw that the government found that the right to control one's own body, to tell people what status you have as a medical individual, is fundamental under privacy rights.
We think that our privacy rights guarantee that the government cannot take blood out of our body without our consent.
What this means is that biopower would suggest true oppressive policies on the behalf of the government.
It would truly undermine our ability to self-actualize and actually find happiness in a world where there's already massive government overstep.
My second argument is about weakness and fatigue.
My opponent sort of hand-waves away the idea that blood donation is actually an incredibly tiring process.
He says that, you know, after you give blood, a good meal's enough to get you on your day.
This is simply not true.
For most people, after they give blood, they cannot do strenuous physical activity for almost a week.
Although this may be fine for people who work in an office, for those who work jobs which require massive amounts of manual labor, this is simply not tenable.
Even if we give exceptions for these individuals, it's also not just to tell people they cannot take whatever physical activity they wanted to do in a given week away simply because they have to give blood for arbitrary reasons.
For this reason, blood donation should not be mandatory.