We should not ban child actors.
When we're talking about whether or not the government should step in and choose to ban something, whether it be a practice, whether it be a certain way of living.
We think that there's an incredibly high bar that the government needs to meet before it can do this.
Recognize that the government is not something that individuals are able to opt in or really able to opt out of.
People are born into the country that they're born into and occasionally they move from that country to a different country, but either way, no matter where they choose to go, people are always being forced into some sort of a government system where government oversight chooses to prevent them from doing certain things.
Given that this is the case, there are certain ways that people live that make them feel fulfilled and allow them to do things that allow them to self-actualize that are precluded when the government chooses to step in and to ban something.
And given that there's no way for people to opt out of the possibility of ban, the government should take steps to ensure that they're only banning things in instances in which there is dire need in order to do so.
So what is do we think is an instance in which people or which the government is justified in banning?
There are a few of them.
We think when there's asymmetry of information, which means the government has more information that can't be widely distributed to the public, the government should be able to step in and ban certain things because they know, even though the the population doesn't, that this is a certain practice that is going to be massively harmful.
The other instance where we think the government can step in to ban something is when an activity or an action or a practice is something that would have a drastically negative impact on someone that is unrelated to this or to an innocent bystander.
So this is why certain crimes are punished, things like assault and things that violate another person's bodily autonomy.
We think that's perfectly reasonable because in those instances there is an innocent person who otherwise wouldn't be able to live their life in the same way if the government hadn't stepped in.
So we think that when certain practices violate other people's autonomy or their ability to live their life in a valuable and a meaningful way, those are instances in which people in which the government can step in.
You don't think that child actors meet this burden.
Recognize that child actors have a diverse history of success and failure, and whether or not they seem to have certain mental illnesses or seem to have certain illnesses come on to them after they have while they're actors, or before or after they're actors, this is true.
This is undisputed.
But the actual service of being an actor itself is not a very dangerous or high risk job.
The actual practice of going out, learning your lines, being an actor and performing, is not something that, like in other service industries, can be incredibly dangerous.
And this is why child labor laws existed in the first place.
It was to prevent children from doing jobs that they physically were incapable of doing safely.
Things like being a factory worker are incredibly dangerous to a child.
But acting is not that case.
And we also think that while maybe there are instances in which children specific children shouldn't be in this profession, we don't think the government does a very good job of choosing which of these instances are the ones that they're banning, especially because this would likely be a blanket ban.
We think that parents usually have the well-being of their children at heart and if they don't, we think that there are already government agencies, like dark out, that can step in to make sure that if a child is being abused, that they're not being kept with their parents.
But in instances when parents aren't abusing their children, you think they're able to best make this decision as to whether or not a child can act, about whether or not this isn't this is too much for a child to handle, about whether or not the financial benefits outweigh the short-term costs of doing this type of thing.
They know their financial situation.
They know what opportunities are available to their children, they know a a vast vastly more about their child than the government does.
And given that there is already a caretaker available, who is closer and has contextual knowledge that the government doesn't have, and given that this is an industry that generally is not very dangerous by itself, there are certainly externalities, but those are types of externalities that can be regulated away, we think that given that that's the case and that if there are particularly bad practices, those can also be regulated or there can be legislation against that, but it's not the case where banning is necessary.
And for this reason, we don't think you should ban child actors.