Reality television does more harm than good.
So the purpose of the debate, when we're talking about reality television, we're talking about dramatizations of real life situations, as well as competitive shows such the bachelor or other shows like big brother, that create competition, but do so through the building of dramatizations of real life scenarios or real life infightings.
Creating them to the near of reality is I think the identifying quality of reality television, and that's what we're focusing on in this debate.
So, the first argument we have is that reality TV distorts social norms.
As a reality TV show contestant or person or personality, what you are rewarded for is not civility, you're not rewarded for your good behavior, your good interactions with other, but rather, you are rewarded for your ability to cause some sort of drama.
If you can make yourself more visible on the TV screen, you're more likely to advance in competitive shows, and you're more likely to remain on reality TV, you're more likely to get views and get paid, if you can do things that will stir up drama.
So, this means firstly that obviously, reality TV does not mimic reality, it is in fact fake television, but this isn't relevant to whether or not it's bad.
What is relevant to whether or not it's bad is that increasing drama through things like being a bad person, through being antagonistic, through causing divisions within social groups by trying to be on top, and through competitive atmospheres, these types of social mores are problematic to pass on to society.
We think that television serves as a powerful tool to teach moral lessons.
Because it has such a central role in our life, because more people spend six, seven hours a day watching TV than they do going out and interacting with their friends and with their family, we think that television ends up being an incredibly powerful social teacher, and if reality TV, as it has become, becomes more prevalent, becomes prominent on mainstream TV stations, if it becomes one of the more prominent forms of television entertainment, we think that this means that the people that are being entertained by these things are largely being inculcated in bad social mores, and while it's true that some of these people aren't going to take on these ideas, that some of these people watch to see the drama and they laugh at it and they think it's stupid, a lot of people have characters that they emulate on these shows and have characters that they relate to, because that's how we form bonds on TV.
And we think that as this is the case, reality television ends up teaching bad social mores and harm society on them.
So, the second problem that we have is that it crowds out other options.
So, why is this important?
Obviously, there's limited funds and limited screen time that allows people to have a television show on a network, but what we think is better about plot driven television format is that it gives connections and teaches empathy.
When you have a plot driven when you've a plot driven show of roughly equal quality to any of reality television show, you have imbedded connections between characters.
You have paths that are established by writers that are meant to form empathy between you and those characters, and it teaches you to understand those characters' struggles, and it helps you to empathize with other people in your daily life.
Because you can't simply interact with people of all different scenarios, because largely you are stuck in the environment that you live in, or it's very difficult to leave that environment, plotted plot driven reality TV is a means of helping people connect with experiences outside of their environment.
As reality TV becomes more prominent, it means fewer of these plot driven shows get on television, but we think that these are the proper and preferable social conduits than reality TV.
And given that reality TV crowds out good social mores, and in and of itself breeds bad social mores, we think that reality television does more harm than good.