We should ban trans fat usage in food.
So we think that the way that this would be implemented is that the government would institute this ban on the systemic level.
So if any food producer produced food with trans fats, it wouldn't be allowed to be sold on open markets.
Obviously there'd be penalties and fines and things like that for these types of violations.
We don't think the model is too necessary.
So, firstly we're going to talk about why the government can paternalize in this instance, and broadly when it's justified for the government to paternalize, and secondly, why trans fats are so problematic and under this paradigm need to be banned.
So, we think that individuals are horrible it doing a couple of things: firstly there tremendously bad at on their own gathering information.
They do a very bad job of researching the things that interact with them on a day to day basis, generally because these things are often protected for by the government if they're so dangerous, and when they're not, we generally have an acceptance that there's some sort of bare minimum safety standards in the things that we consume.
Secondly, individuals are horrible at planning for the long run.
Individuals are incredibly short sighted in how they choose to seek pleasure.
This isn't just the fact that individuals may psychologically not be able to think about the future, but also the fact that our mental and biological impulses drive us for instant an immediate self gratification.
We think that this means that when it comes to things that are unhealthy for us, we often choose to do those things even though there are clear health benefits to not doing those things.
For example, smoking is something that people are physically driven to do even though in the vast majority of cases people that smoke are aware of the fact that doing so will have disastrous health implications for them moving on.
Given that individuals are bad at these two instances, and the government exists in order to protect individuals rights, they exist in order to maximize individual utility, in instances when people are not able to make informed decisions and are not able to internalize the harms, especially when there's very little loss of liberty in regulating these types of things, which we think is the case and allowing people not allowing people be trans fats, we think that in these instances we we, when clear damage arises from these things the government can intervene.
So, what is that clear damage that trans fats do that allow them to intervene in this instance?
So firstly, they're addictive.
It's it's, trans fats are put in food and there's a biological drive to consume those things in a similar way that there's a biological drive for a cigarette smoker to consume tobacco and to consume nicotine.
These types of drives are often something that individuals are simply unaware of when they're choosing you consume the food, which means they can't make an informed decision to consent into the implications of that.
And even if they could, it's difficult for people to be able to break away from those things and we don't think that we should allow things that are openly addictive to be so clearly and plainly used.
Secondly, there is absolutely no health value in trans fats.
People don't internalize the long term harms and they need the protection.
Trans fats have immense damage to the individual body.
They aren't very easily used for energy, they aren't these things that provide any sorts of nutrients or or health benefits to the body.
In fact they're only detrimental.
They only assume they only they only harm the individual's health in the long run.
And this is important for society as well.
Recognize that these costs are passed down through things like healthcare and economic loss, when people are not be able to provide, they're not able to participate in the economy, because of the health the health damages that they take on from consuming these things.
There are immense social harms for allowing a society that becomes more and more obese, like our society is, and we think that we need to check on these types of problems in the status quo to ensure that we aren't harmed in the long run, and that the government is obligated to paternalize in these in this instance to help its citizens.
For these reasons we should ban trans fats usage in food.