Truth and reconciliation commissions bring more good than harm.
We think that it's first important recognize the context in which these things exist.
Truth and reconciliation commissions exist in post conflict societies, societies that are coming out of things like civil wars or mass atrocities.
Situations in which oftentimes structural issues - forced conflicts, divisions between groups of people, forced violence on both sides and where there's no correct side.
Maybe one side has come out victorious but there is no right moral side.
These are often situations such as in rwanda, the former, or south africa, in which apartheid occurred, in which violence occurred on both sides, and in which we don't think that it's that it's possible to prosecute every perpetrator.
The reason for this is that these things occur on a massive scale, which means that there may be hundreds or thousands of foot soldiers on the ground that have committed these acts, that need to be punished, but you have a legal system that is usually in its nascent stage.
These are usually new societies and new governments that are hosting the TRC's and as such, if you were to have trials for all these people, we don't think it would be possible to get through all these people.
We think what the more likely scenario is, is that either trials will be rushed, in which case you can't ensure that justice is actually carried out, or these trials will be faked.
Or the trials will be prejudiced in certain ways, in which you also can't ensure justice is carried out, or people never face trials, which means that victims never get the closure that they need and ever get the help they need.
So we think that there are two reasons why TRC's are incredibly good in post conflict societies.
The first is that it prioritizes healing over vengeance.
Trials aren't built to include this type of healing that is necessary in post conflict societies.
Trials by their very nature are combative, they don't allow for families and for victims to speak unless it is entirely necessary for proving the guilt of an individual, they don't seek information out.
So information about mass grave sites, about how atrocities were carried out, things that allow for closure to be possible victims.
If these things aren't a part of the plan for prosecution and for a conviction, these things never get out.
Which means that victims are never given the information, the apology, the things they need to heal and move on.
And this is crucial because in these post conflict societies, it's not like the divisions that existed during conflict disappear but rather these communities need to learn how to live with each other moving forward.
We think that when you have a system in which one group is overwhelmingly tried because the other group is likely to be the one in power and hosting those trials, we think this only deepens the this only deepens the tension that exists, and it means that individuals are only angry at each other on both sides.
TRC's also allow for discourse.
When you're not in a combative nature of a trial, you can learn to understand why the other side behaved the way it did and it can learn, it can teach people to humanize the people that had previously been their enemies.
We think that this is crucial again because these groups are going to need to live together in the future.
The second reason why TRC's are preferable is because they're actually possible.
Recognized that a commitment to retribution is not fully possible.
There's no way to convict all the people that you're going to get.
These trials are going to be problematic if you try and cram through every individual.
It only increases these existing tension and because of this we can that TRC's are a balance between the justice that people want, it ensures that people are made fully aware of the actions they've done wrong.
People are forced to explain what they did, people are forced to acknowledge the harms that they've done, not only for themselves but for their victims, and it ensures that a a society broadly blame isn't placed on one side.
It ensures that all people get the chance to express their feelings and express their grief.
And while it may not lead to the blood thirsty revenge that some people want after these atrocities have been committed, that doesn't lead to future healing.
That only leads to more crime in the future and especially when these crimes or in, when these crimes occur on a mass scale, we don't think that it is worthwhile to have retribution over rehabilitation.
Both socially and for individuals.
And for this reason we believe that truth and reconciliation commissions bring more good than harm.