We should legalize cell phone use while driving.
To be clear in this debate, when we're talking about cell phone use, we think we're talking primarily about talking on the phone, maybe briefly looking at the phone to navigate, do these types of things.
We're not going to say that we would allow texting, we think it's just been demonstrably shown that texting increases the rates of accidents, and we think that there's still a robust debate to be had in other areas.
So, why do we think that we should legalize using your cell phone while driving?
So firstly, we would say that there's not a meaningful difference between talking to someone on your phone, or talking to someone over the phone, as there is with having someone in the car with you.
In fact, we think it's much more likely that, when someone is in the car with you, you're likely to have an accident.
The person in the car could try and show you something, you're more likely to divert your attention from the road to the person sitting next to you, than you are if you're simply talking to someone on the phone, because there's no one to look at when they're not in the car with you.
So we think that, given that we allow people to be in the car with other people, that we allow drivers to communicate with their passengers in the car freely, and there's no real check on that, we see no reason why someone being able to talk to someone on their cell phone would have a tangible harm.
Some may say that, you may not be able to you may not have to hands on the wheel, but firstly, you can clearly talk to someone on the cellphone, while also having two two hands on the wheel, you can put your speaker on, you can use a bluetooth headphones.
So, we think that argument is irrelevant, but also let's be honest, most people don't constantly drive with two hands on the wheel, so we think that this isn't a meaningfully greater distraction, than when people are on the phone, or when people are talking to other people, and so we think that this is a reasonable stance to take.
We also think that, the ban in the status quo is used problematically, in the sense that we think that the large motivation, for making cell phone use while driving illegal in the status quo, is simply to collect tax revenue from individuals, so that police officers can call individuals over and give them a fine, and that this is a way that the state raises revenue, and in fact ticketing individuals is a massive source of state revenue, especially in urban areas, and we think that this is just dramatically unjust.
It means that people can be targeted and pay a disproportionate amount to society, in the form of taxes, simply because they're doing something that is irrationally illegal, that has no tangible harms that can be demonstrated with it.
So given that this is the case, we think that it simply forms an unjust an unjust way of taxing individuals, and that without this, we think that other reforms we need to be would need to be made to raise the same amount of revenue, but that those forms would ultimately and more likely be fair.
So we think that, and finally, we think that people should simply have the freedom to communicate.
We think that there are really reasonable reasons that people would want to talk on their cell phone, while they're driving.
Maybe someone has an emergency, and they need to contact an individual, or someone else is having an emergency needs to contact them, maybe they're simply trying to make plans, and they're trying to figure out where they're going to go, or what they're going to do with the people when they get there, and yes this is kind of an aesthetic, or a kind of ethereal thing, but these are the way that people construct their lives, and construct their plans, and make plans for the future, and without the ability to do this, we think that it's simply limits their ability to function meaningfully in the world.
We also think that, sometimes people need to stay awake at night, and that people talk to people on the phone as a meaningful way to keep them energized, and keep them awake, in a time when they may be incredibly tired.
So, all of these are just feasible reasons why people may want to be on the phone while driving, and given that, people are able to be in the car with other individuals, are able to talk with other individuals, regardless.
We don't think that the introduction of the cell phone is a meaningful harm, that is added on to these people, and so if we're going to give drivers the freedom to talk with passengers in the car, for any number of reasons, we think that the same freedom should be given to talk to people on the phone, to use their phone for brief periods of time.
And given all of this, we say that we should legalize cell phone use while driving.