We should not ban cosmetic surgery.
We think that, the government would point out to you that cosmetic surgeries and in a	 large series of norms that are problematic to the average person, that they perpetuate body problem, eh prop body image issues, that they perpetuate objectives, and standards of beauty, that are simply harmful to the polity.
What we had argue is that, cosmetic surgery is simply a factor of the society that we live in.
The desire of people to change their appearance is part of the society, that bred those people.
And we think that, not allowing people to do what they desire, and restricting their freedom in this sense, is an unfair part of the society, and we simply do not think that cosmetic surgery is a perpetuater of these issues, but rather a by product of these issues, and, in attempts to ban cosmetic surgery to solve these issues, is only bandaid solution on issues, body dysmorphia and body image issues that exist, and in other sorts of beauty standard issues that exist in our country, that aren't going to be solved by this action.
So given that that's the case, we're gonna talk about two reasons why you should not ban cosmetic surgery: the first is about freedom, and the second one is about empowerment.
So firstly on freedom, we don't think that the government has the right or the power to ban something into prohibited action, when it doesn't have a direct adverse affect on someone else.
And yes, you could point to the sort of signaling effects that cosmetic surgery has, the sort of perpetuation that we've already talked about.
We don't think that this is a fair standard for choosing when you're going to restrict someone's rights.
We think, if their action doesn't have a direct impact on the individual, in the sense that is unavoidable, in the sense in which they could not use their own freedom to avoid, then we think that someone should not have that freedom stricken from them.
The reason for this is because people don't have the choice to opt into the state, people don't have the choice of the society that breeds them, or the desires that they have, and given that this is the case, we think that the state should exist to maximize people's ability to to gain utility, to gain benefits from the state that they exist in.
And, if people have this desire to change their appearance, we don't think that they should be judged any more harshly than other things that are done to people's bodies within society.
I'll get into that in a second.
So secondly, we think that this isn't the kind of decision, this isn't the job of the government to make these types of decisions for people.
There are already restrictions in place, to ensure that people need to be informed about what they're doing, to ensure that people aren't doing this to children, there are protections that exist in place, to ensure that the harms, the direct harms of cosmetic surgery, are prohibited.
And given that that's the case, we don't think it's the job of the government to step in, and make this judgment call for people in their own particular instances.
But secondly, on empowerment: why do we think cosmetic surgery can actually be a good thing?
We think that cosmetic surgery is empowering in the sense that, for the first time it allows people to truly make a choice over how they're going to appear, it gives them agency over how they're going to present themselves to the world.
And given that people judge other people based on their body all the time, we think that individuals should have to right and the ability to choose how they're going to present themselves.
Things like tattoos and piercings in certain instances, can appears as art, it's an expression of who you are, it's a signal to the rest of the world about who you are as an individual, and it's the first thing that people learn about you, and understand about you.
Given that this is the case, we think that this can be done in a very empowering matter, in which people can change the way they appear in things that them.
And maybe their problems, their body the issues they have, shouldn't exist, we would think an ideal world, people would be comfortable with their bodies.
But we don't live in that ideal world, we live in a world in which people feel judged and judged constantly, and we think that in this world, we think people should have the right to make the decision as free adults, as to whether or not they're going to appear in a certain way, as to whether or not they're going to take the action to change that appearance, to empower themselves, and to present themselves in the way that they see fit.
And given that, they had this agency, there are protections to ensure they're not harmed, and their freedom is at risk, we should not ban cosmetic surgery.