Goal-line technology brings more good than harm.
Goal-line technology is technology that exists in the status quo that allows football referees and officials to check to see whether or not a ball has gone out of bounds, or broke the plane of the goal or, to to make other official rulings having to do with whether or not the ball has crossed the plane.
So given that this is the case, and given that this technology is readily available, we think that it would be better for fifa to adopt this because it does more good than harm.
So let's lay this out.
In the status quo, individuals are easily able to see whether or not referees have made the right decision on televised games, which are the games that likely would be getting this goal-line technology anyway, people can look back, the announcers will show replays time and again, at every single camera angle, and people probably will know what the right call is.
People will be able to get an understanding of what is correct.
Given that this is the case, goal-line technology can only confirm what people are already realizing, but without being able to use it, fifa looks retrogressive.
Fifa looks like it's unwilling to adopt something that allows for more accuracy in its sport, and for more legitimacy in its sport.
And this doesn't undermine the ability of refs to do this job.
If anything, it relieves pressure on refs so that in the future, if they make a questionable call, they're able to review it, or if they simply don't have the perspective they need to make that call, they don't need to make a random guess.
They can instead make a decision that actually reflects what occurred.
Furthermore, we would say that not only does football look retrogressive, but it simply doesn't take all that long to check these things.
If you look at tennis, and if you look at other sports in which technology determine in bounds out of bounds exists, it doesn't take twenty five minutes to review whether the ball went out of bounds, we think very small stoppages in in play are worth it to get the call right.
And that's we're going to talk about.
The importance of accuracy, and why it leads to better narratives, sporting, football, is all about narratives.
It's about people being able to connect with the narrative of the players, and with the organization that they follow.
Narratives are only enhanced by accuracy.
When people aren't questioning whether or not their favorite stars actually deserve to win a particular game or whether their favorite organization was cheated out of some sort of call, it changes in the narrative that we have, and it changes the association that fans have with places like fifa.
It makes the brand of fifa, even if teams themselves are very popular, it makes the brand of fifa unpopular, and turns people off from soccer who aren't already fundamentally attached to it.
It turns people off when they're not getting accurate results.
It allows people to question the legacies of what exists, it allows people to complain about the organization, on fair grounds, on justified grounds.
Given that there is so little implementation cost to implementing goal-line technology, we don't think that fans should not be allowed to get this benefit, that the narrative that people understand, that people don't feel cheated out of their success, that players, coaches, know that the result on the pitch is going to be the accurate reflection of what happened, that people are not going to cheat them out of success.
Given that only it only takes a brief amount of time to review these types of things, that fifa has all the money in the world to spend on implementing this type of technology, that fans already know whether or not calls are correct and this isn't going to make the referees look any worse, it's only going to allow them to do their jobs more accurately, we think that all these things create a progressive, better narrative you fifa moving forward, if it adopts goal-line technology, and because of this, goal-line technology brings more good than harm.