Bullfighting should be banned.
In this round, we're gonna make one large argument, which is that animals deserve to have rights, specifically, the animals in bullfighting deserve to have rights, and that bullfighting objectively violates those rights that they deserve to have.
So I'm going to walk through this in three steps.
First thing we want to say is that rights, we believe, are created by human societies.
They're not something that are created out of the ether.
They're not something that are universal or endowed on us by the fact of our existence, but rather are an emergent phenomena that come out of our societies.
And we believe that in order to be binding, in order for these rights to have real weight and value, they must be consistent and objective.
These two standards, being consistent across all actors and objective in how they are applied, is how we distinguish rights from simple desires.
We think that the way that we actually ascribe rights and come up with rights in our society is based on the principles of pain avoidance and maximizing pleasure.
We think that all right systems, whether they're deontological in nature, or utilitarian in nature, or even virtuoso in nature, these right systems can essentially be boiled down to those ideas: maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain.
Given that we essentially form rights around these ideas, why do we think that animals should have rights based on this idea?
Because if the determining factor of whether a right is being ascribed, say, the right to my bodily autonomy is being ascribed because bodily autonomy provides me with an immense amount of pleasure and because that right prevents me from having pain inflicted upon me, we think that those standards, the ability to feel pain and to feel pleasure, are the standards we should use when determining who needs to be a rights-bearing entity.
And so, just because we can't internalize and understand animal pain and pleasure in the same way we can understand other humans, because we experience them through similar faculties, they're they have other humans have an ability to explain their pain and their pleasure to us in a way that we can understand, in a way that animals don't have that ability, this doesn't mean that those emotions and those basic fundamental underpinnings do not exist within animals.
We know scientifically that animals can feel pain and pleasure.
We think that denying animals rights would be creating an arbitrary distinction.
It would essentially be saying because animals are not human, we should not give them rights, even though humanness has nothing to do with pain or pleasure.
There's nothing about our human nature that makes us especially capable of expressing or feeling those things, and we think that drawing this arbitrary distinction undermines our rights framework entirely and creates a slippery slope to further rights denial.
If we can arbitrarily draw animals out of the equation in this instance, we think that it opens the door to drawing others out of the equation in the future.
So, finally, why does bullfighting violate these rights and why does it need to be banned?
Because the justification for bullfighting is that it's a cultural it recognizes that that bulls and the animals in these bullfighting are maimed, they're killed and they're harmed to an immense degree, and the explanation for why this is justified is because it's a part of the culture of people that have been doing this practice for hundreds of years.
We think that elevating culture over a abuse of fundamental bodily autonomy and well-being would never be allowed in the case of one human to another, that maybe it's a cultural practice that humans sacrifice other human beings in certain cultures, but we don't think that that is justified because it so violates the rights of the person that is being sacrificed.
And just because, in this example, a bull is being used instead of a human being, doesn't mean that pain and pleasure are not doesn't mean that the animal does not feel pain.
It doesn't mean that the animal isn't deserving of holding those similar rights.
And because those things are violated, we do not think you can elevate culture over the bull's rights, and for these reasons, bullfighting should be banned.