Science is a major threat.
So the important context for this debate is to understand that while people may think that scientific and human progress is a linear event, scientific progress has actually seen an exponential increase over recent centuries.
The amount of progress that humanity has achieved in the last fifty years is equal to the amount of progress that we achieved in the one thousand years prior to that.
Human expansion is occurring at dramatically increased rates, populations are rising and science is rising with it.
What this means is that we live in a status quo in which we are facing increasingly new scientific prospects, but we also dramatically lack the infrastructure to deal with new scientific the problems that may arise with scientific possibilities.
But it also means that these changes are occurring so quickly that we don't have the understanding of the harms that may come with it and how to solve those harms.
We think that this pace of science is what poses a major threat.
And we're going to talk about four ways in which science poses a threat tangibly.
The first is the rise of AI.
With the rise of artificial intelligence there's a possibility that this intelligence will have control over the internet and have control over our spheres of discourse as well as to be able to develop intelligence that exceeds our own.
With this type of possibility comes of course possibilities that have been conjectured in science fiction from for a century, but are real possibilities that AI could end up posing a threat to humanity.
That AI may choose to turn against humanity and that through turning against humanity could use its increased intelligence to be pose as an existential threat to humanity.
And while we may not know if this is a real possibility, if the science behind this would allow this to happen, if you posed or if you created an artificial intelligence that is able to be to be smarter than a human, to do more computation to really perceive or to really behave as if it was human as if it had consciousness, which is what scientists are trying to develop now, the possibility for for continued exponential growth that AI could be devastating.
The second tangible flaw or problem that we face is the potential of super bugs and different types of disease and dirty bombs and things like this.
So the reason that this is a problem is that with the increased use of medication, with the increased use of science, of pharmaceuticals and things like this, we've been able to develop better contagions and better types of dirty bombs and dirty devices and with this comes the possibility that terrorists and other organizations could have massive attacks in urban areas without having to explode a bomb, without having to use different types of weapons or things like this.
They could simply go into an area expose an area to a virus, a super virus and what this could do is it could wipe out an entire urban area in mere weeks.
Now while this seems like a far fetched threat, with the development and scientific progress in investigating disease, we've also developed incredibly powerful diseases, viruses to understand how they function.
If these things were to get loose, they could pose real existential threats to the world.
There's also the third thing we're going to talk about, is the the increased availability of private information.
What we mean by this is that science, through technology, has allowed us to be increasingly connected to storing information on these magical devices called computers in which we're able to store infinitely more information, have access to infinitely more information.
But the connectivity also makes us incredibly vulnerable.
While it was very difficult to break into my house and steal my financial records before, it's much easier to hack into my bank account and steal or my or my email address and steal my banking statements.
What this means is that with the pervasion of technology in this the synonymity of technology with our modern society it makes it much easier for private information to be stolen.
If private information can be stolen en masse, it can lead to massive problems for large corporations which which could have dramatic implications on our economic system and it can lead to things it can lead to different sorts of conflicts between states if sensitive information could get leaked, say, information for the united states being leaked, about plans to do things in russia or vice versa.
These things can have dramatic implications on how the world functions and those three tangible threats are just one of the many that show that science is a major threat.