We should privatize the water supply.
In the status quo we believe that there is a problem in which many communities face water shortages and many communities that don't face water shortages face horrible mismanagement of their water supply.
We think that government as a broad entity doesn't have the checks that a that a capitalist market system would allow for.
Checks that ensure that if regulation of water if the health of the water is not up to par that other individuals and other entities are able to step in to replace that.
The competition that drives down prices and ensures that in an area where there's a a depressing an essential lack of supply of water can be reached because there are market incentives that will bring the water to those areas.
So this is what we're going to talk about broadly.
What the problem is with current shortages, and what the problems are currently with government.
So in the status quo certain areas are wealthy with water.
Certain areas and certain municipalities are able to have vast water resources because of their location, whereas other areas, particularly for example in the united states in the mid west or in areas that face immense amounts of fire or famine, these areas simply do not have the water supply that is necessary however, other areas and municipalities don't have an incentive to ship their water off because these municipalities govern and exist for the good of their people and their locale.
There's no incentive in the status quo for them to send water to those areas.
If water were to be privatized, if water were to be made a commodity, just like anything else, it would mean that in these areas where there is a shortage or in these areas where there is too much and too great of a supply, these things can be balanced out because market incentives will push these organizations and push these private companies to distribute the water in a more fair manner.
Even if it isn't because these people desperately need the water it's because there are funds that will be able to attract that type of water that municipalities simply don't care about broadly.
Because of this we think that if you were to privatize the water supply you'd get a decrease in the amount of shortages that currently exist.
The second problem that currently exists broadly is government failings.
We see in like places we see it in places like flint where in flint michigan where water is simply contaminated beyond an acceptable point where the government has failed to account for what the community needs, and has broadly neglected to community by not insuring that water is up to higher safety standards.
Again because there's no competition for the government while people can be voted out of office if groups are neglected like was the case in flint michigan those voices are very difficult to be made heard but if water supply was privatized, it would mean that these voices could be made heard very clearly through a lack of payment or more promptly, it would mean that communities could go to other avenues for their water supply.
It would mean that these communities could shift their spending in a way that was most fruitful for them.
It would mean that companies would be incentivize not only to ensure that water is of the highest standards of their customers but also to ensure that it's at high standards to attract other customers.
So we think broadly what you get with the privatization of water supply is that you get a decrease in the mishandling of water.
It creates checks on corporations that don't exist on governments that ensure that the people will get the healthiest and the cleanest water that is possible because if they don't other community or not other communities other corporations will be able to step in to check for the failings of their competition.
We think broadly that the government has shown a lack of accountability and a lack of capability in providing water as a public resource, and when the government has failed we think that the market is a provides solutions that the government will never be able to do, and for these reasons we should privatize the water supply.