Tibetan independence is justified.
So, before we start this debate, we want to lay out the context in which tibet has existed and has been ruled over the past.
Recognize that, tibet did not ask to join china, it doesn't have particularly deep cultural ties to china, in fact it was largely autonomous and independent from both india and china, for the vast majority of its history.
It was self governing, and an autonomous region that existed, and what happened was china invaded, it forced all the culture out, by forcing out major religious and political leaders, such as the dalai lama, and it did this without the consent of the people there.
So, given that background, and given that context, we think that there are two reasons why the independence is justified: the first is that, we think there is a right to self rule, that has been clearly violated in this instance, and secondly, we think that china simply provides for bad governance.
So firstly, on the right to self rule.
We think that governments cannot be legitimate without the consent of the people that they rule.
The first reason for this is that, the people determine what the good is, and when the government refuses to abide by what the good is, by not allowing the people to have the self rule, by not allowing people to have self rule it's impossible for the government to fulfill that good, because it is intrinsic, in the people's ability to choose their leaders, that the good be determined.
But more importantly, we think that people have a right to determine the people that are going to have the course of the apparatus, and the capabilities of using force against them.
We think that the state is an immensely powerful body, and we think, without the consent of the people that are governed, it isn't any distinguishable from say, a cartel that rules over a region, or another organization that simply rules by force.
It makes the state, by its very nature, unjust, even if the state is doing good, it's still unjust, because people have no consent, we'd say that there is no purpose to this government, if it undermines what the people have, and tibet has shown throughout its history that it's capable of self governance.
It's capable of being able to rule itself autonomously, so it's not like china has come in and taken over an otherwise anarchic or anarchical state, that wasn't able to function properly without its rule.
In fact, we would say that china has made the region more problematic, more turbulent, and has provided bad government.
We think that governance needs to respect the desire of the people, and china has repeatedly shown an inability to do that.
Firstly they've imported han individuals to homogenize the region to make it more similar to china, and they forced people into these areas, which of course these are people that are privileged, and being able to have economic economic help and resources, provided to them by the chinese state.
These are the people that are able to get the most economic resources, and more importantly, it's homogenized the region in a way that has mixed a culture in, that wasn't otherwise welcome.
They removed the dalai lama, which was not only the political leader of this region, but the cultural and spiritual leader of this region, of the religion of these people, a central figure in the life of many tibetans, and this person has been forcibly removed, and been forced into exile from the state for decades now.
Given that this is the case, china has simply undermined the well being of the people, they've imposed their rule onto it, and we think there's been slower growth and modernization, than there has been in the rest of china, which shows that china has disproportionately stripped tibet of the resources that they provided to other people.
So, they're not even treating tibet as a region that is fully a part of china, they're treating it as a second class state, full of second class citizens.
We think, in the fact that it have stripped the people of tibet, of their culture, it has stripped the people of tibet of their religion, in a very meaningful way, that impacts their ability to self actualize, and live fulfilling lives, we think that china has failed, as a governing power of tibet.
So, even if their occupation and their takeover in its nature was justified, because they haven't fulfilled the will of the people, they haven't provided equal economic mobility and opportunity, and they haven't allowed the culture to flourish, in such a way that allows for people to be fulfilled outside of economic means, we think that all of this means that tibetan independence is justified.