Recall elections are beneficial.
In this debate, we're going to be talking about recall election, specifically in the form of individuals, being able to vote to repeal the election of a candidate, while their term is still on.
So, this this usually occurs when people are dissatisfied with the current candidate, that has become their elected official, usually they haven't fulfilled certain campaign promises, things like this, and it leads to there being a recall vote, in which the entire voting population is able to vote as to whether or not the person will be able to keep their term in office, and continue to serve, and if they are recalled, or, if the vote is more than fifty percent, where they are disapproved of, then there's a new election, and a new process to find someone to fill in for that term.
So, we're going to talk, primarily, about why did direct democracy, a direct democracy in this form is good, and why we think we get better political outcomes, which is ultimately the purpose of politics in the first place.
So firstly, on direct democracy.
We think that, recall elections are more principally just within a democratic system.
Within democratic state, within a liberal state, the state can only be justified based on the consent of the people that are governed by, which is why that which is why we have the democratic elections that we have in the first place, it's to ensure that those that are being ruled, are ruled by those to which they have consented to ruling them, unlike the kings and monarchs of the past.
We think that, more actions equals more opportunities to consent, because people don't get the opportunity to vote on day to day legislation, they don't get the the chance to vote on every bill that comes before state house.
It means that, individuals when people elect candidates, it is their proxy for how policy is moving, its their proxy for how policy is done.
We think that, more elections means more opportunity for for people to have the most direct impact on the policy making position.
Elections are a much more concrete way of changing the policy direction, more concrete than giving money or giving donations to candidates, it's more concrete than writing to your legislature, or even having protests.
We think that elections are the most direct, and most essential way to change policy.
Further, we think that when individuals elect a candidate, that candidate runs on certain premises, the premises of campaign promises, of what that candidate intends to do while in office.
At the point, at which the candidate has been unable to fulfill that promise, whether it is their fault or not that this is the case, we think that that is the point at which, the people are capable of making the decision to recall that candidate, because they bought into that candidate on false promises, on false expectations, and as the candidate is simply a proxy for what those people believe should be achieved in a policy sense, when that candidate doesn't fulfill those policies, it means that a new direction is entirely justified by the people.
This is also why we think we get generally better outcomes, when you have recall elections.
There's no objectively correct way, in which the government should run, or in which the state should function.
The state exists to serve the ideas and the priorities of the people in that state, and once the state begin to act in ways that are not beneficial, ways that are possibly corrupt, in ways that benefit themselves, which we think is often the case, when people are put in a position of power, when there are individuals lobbying for them, individuals trying to get their attention, a revolving door that, allows them to get very lucrative jobs, after they've been in office, all these things are reasons why politicians may not have the people's best interests, and often don't have the people's best interest in mind.
We think that, it is unfair to force the populace to continue to deal with a candidate that doesn't represent their ideals, that isn't bringing about the change, or the direction that they want to see, and the opportunity to recall that individual, to at least give the sign that, people are discontent with how the government is running, we think that this is a crucial part of democracy, and leads to people being more accountable to the promises they made, and leads the people more often getting the government they desire.
For these reasons, we believe that recall elections are beneficial.