Suicide should be a criminal offense.
So m quickly to lay out the model, we think that while suicide would certainly be a criminal offense, and will be treated as any other criminal offense, if you're found guilty of it, you can you will be brought to trial, get arrested for it, etcetera, etcetera, the only thing that we want to make clear is that we will leave sentencing up to judicial discretion.
So, we mean that judges would be able to determine what the punishment for suicide would be, and we're going to explain why this is a good thing right now.
So, we have two main arguments, the first is about why why this is beneficial to people, that are likely to commit suicide, and the second is about the nature of rights.
So, what we want to point out at the very beginning is that while many people can have treatment forced upon them, for mental health issues, and for other types of issues, while they're minors, adults cannot have this treatment forced upon them, unless they commit some sort of a crime.
If you criminalize suicide, it ensures that when someone has failed a suicide attempt, that if they are arrested, treatment can be forced upon those individuals.
And suicide, and depression, and these types of mental illnesses, are not things that are untreatable, they're not things that can never be dealt with through proper medical treatment.
Rather we think, that if people are arrested, who have failed in their attempt to commit suicide, we think it's much more likely that they will go to access treatment, than in an alternative world, in which those same people are allowed to continue under their own reconnaissance, and are able to behave in any way they see fit, which will likely lead them to attempt suicide additional times, and ultimately become far more likely to actually succeed in doing these things.
We think, that criminalizing suicide is not about saying that someone has committed a moral wrong in committing suicide, but is more about ensuring, that people who do this type of thing, gain necessary treatment for the root causes that led them to commit suicide.
Alright, secondly, on the nature of rights.
We think that the right to life must be absolute, and in order for it to be absolute, it must be treated as such by the state.
The state should take the right to life incredibly seriously, even if it's the life of someone who is attempting to commit suicide.
We would say that you cannot consent away your future utility, that individuals are incredibly bad at judging the future utility that they may gain from an action because of this, are incredibly poor long term planners, and we think that ultimate form of this is suicide, in which one's emotions ensure that they don't have the opportunity to access that type of long term utility.
But we would say, that your future self is a fundamentally different person, than your current self.
Your future self will have experiences, that changed the way they view the world, they will have their preferences change, and they will become demonstrably different people, and this is easy to see if you look at an individual who is five years old, and the same individual ten years later, there's no reason to say that that person is the same, besides the the continuation of their bodily form, which also changes.
What we would say this means is that in the same way that you cannot that you cannot give away your rights in the future, because you cannot plan these things, it's equivalent to saying that individuals should not be able to sell themselves into slavery.
One, because it undermines those fundamental rights in society writ large, and two, it's because you're causing harm onto a fundamentally different agent in the future, and a harm of murder onto that agent, something that, otherwise, if you were to do it onto a different physical individual, is something that society would hold as unacceptable.
Because you're causing a future harm onto someone else, and because the criminalization of suicide would make it much more likely that individuals that do attempt suicide, get the treatment they desperately need, we believe that suicide should be a criminal offense.