We should not legalize the growing of coca leaf.
So even though we obviously recognize that the coca leaf and cocaine are not the same product, that to legalize one does not de facto legalize the other, but we do think that it is the case that if you were to legalize coca leaf development, if you were to make it easier to make the products that cocaine can come from, you are almost certainly going to get a rise in cocaine development and in cocaine usage.
So firstly we're gonna explain why cocaine is bad and secondly we're going to explain why cocaine and coca leaf development is going to be especially bad for places that choose to legalize the growing of coca leaf.
Okay so a few reasons why we think cocaine is bad and should remain illegal: firstly it's incredibly addictive.
Cocaine is one of the more addictive drugs that are available recreationally on the free market and what we think it's important to recognizes is that while many people rally against the current laws that we have against cocaine and things like that, we're not saying that you need to punish people in the same way, but we think having laws that stop people from using these addictive drugs, from having these addictive substances in their body to begin with, to try and prevent people from going towards these things and deter them from that, we can get is a proper use of the government's ability.
Because people are so bad at making long term judgment calls when compared to the short term pleasure that drug usage can do, and there are clear long term harms that we think any rational actor would be able to deduce that they should not use cocaine because of those long term harms, but as I said most people are not rational when it comes to long term short term juxtaposition in a judgment call, and we think in these instances, at least insuring that the market cannot legally produce cocaine and putting it out there on the free market or even that you can't have an op-taking cocaine production that would likely come from this.
We think that those are perfectly fine and those in and of themselves are justifications for banning the coca leaf regardless of how you punish drug users.
That's a different conversation.
Secondly, we think that it's going to lead that, coca leaf itself can lead that cocaine leads to erratic behavior.
And so even if you don't think that addiction is bad enough, this erratic behavior ends up harming both yourself, and more importantly, others around you.
You can do violent things while strung out on cocaine and these types of things have long term ramifications on the people you interact with.
Obviously it's better for the government to get out ahead of these things rather than try and adjudicate these things after the fact and the way you do that is by making cocaine illegal.
And also, if you were to legalize the growing of the coca leaf we think this goes against major international laws.
And these these types of ramification simply cannot be outweighed by the fact that coca leaf is something that some people like to chew on, that they get some sort of stimulant from it, but there's not this like overwhelming benefit that comes from coca leaf that you can just throw in the face of all these factors.
So why do you think that you're particularly likely to get harms in the areas where coca leaf production is going to happen?
Well, it's important to recognize that where the coca leaf can actually be grown, mostly in south america, are areas that one, have little government oversight and two, are largely impoverished.
And what this means is that we think once you legalize the growing of the coca leaf you're almost certainly going to get cartels moving into this area.
Cartels moving into these areas is associated with increases amounts of violence increases amount of human rights abuses, it further destabilizes countries, because now countries need to compete with a de facto second government within their own borders when cartels come over and takeover entire areas.
And it puts your civilians it puts civilian lives at risk when they have, when they have to try and live under cartel regime.
We think that increasing those abuses is almost certainly going to come, because cartels are able to seize on a power vacuum that is associated with these countries and legalizing the growing coca leaf only gives them more incentive to move into these areas, because it makes their business easier to carry out.
For these reasons we should not legalize the growing of coca leaf.