The internet does more good than it does harm.
When we think we're talking about the internet, we agree with the government advocacy that this is an argument about consumer access to the internet rather than academic access or things like that.
But we think in that context especially, the internet has done more harm than good for two very broad reasons.
The first reason that we think the internet has done more harm or more good than harm is that it's allowed communication to increase at an exponential level in a way that we think is very beneficial to to society at large.
The first reason is that this increased communication allows for a greater spread of ideas, where as we think that a lot of niche ideas and a lot of intellectual ideas were either closed off to academics or were just unaccessible to large populations of the earth such as an such as developing countries in places like africa and places like south america and places like certain areas of asia.
Now we think that these ideas get to have a global conversation attached to them rather than simply western-centric conversation.
When we when this happens we think that you actually get a better development of ideas overall, meaning that when you have things like political advocacy in certain areas or when you're trying to have discussions about how to best fight disease or discussions about how to best form an education system or any such discussion like this, you can be more informed about the global context and other alternatives that exist in regard to these particular ideas when the internet exists.
These are conversations that are happening not just between the heads of state but happening online in forums between average individuals from countries all over the world interacting with each other and we think that that is a massive boom the ability for ideas to develop in a strong way.
We also think, independent of ideas, that the spread of news is much better now.
Well yes, there's a there's a propagation of fake news in the status quo as the government brings up.
It also allows for better spread of news that wouldn't have otherwise been color-covered especially from marginalized communities.
You can see this happening in the united states when you have things like the killing of black people by police officers getting publicized more and more and more over the last few years in the rise of the black lives matter movement.
This isn't because all of the sudden police are starting to kill black people, this is because these sorts of videos, these sort of commentaries, are now available to a wider public because mainstream mews news media is just as involved in the corruption and justice involved in covering up these types of things and just as biased as the politicians that haven't done anything about these problems.
This means that more people are being able to see what's actually happening to individuals in marginalized communities, which creates more empathy for those communities which we think actually get better advocacy so the internet we think is directly responsible for the increased advocacy for marginalized communities.
We think this outweighs any sort of harm that can come to socialization that government team talks about.
The second the final thing that we think the internet has done is that it's created a massive economic boom.
The internet has allowed not just for an easier sort of commerce through e-commerce.
It's allowed not just for the ability for people to exchange goods and money with each other over large distances but it's also given rise to a particular type of economic development.
We think that you've had a massive diversity of ideas in the past few years and a massive diversity of different products and platforms and things that have gone out there.
Not just physical products but also internet products, online products, different means of communication and entertainment.
All these types of things have been able to spread because now producers can find niche markets in a much easier way.
This means that you don't just need to have a broad idea that the masses will enjoy and be entertained by but you can create niche products that certain communities really need, that certain communities really do want such as different type of medical devices for small communities or or for diseases that the large portion of the population has never heard of.
You can create these types of devices and you can advertise it to localized areas within the internet community and it means that people in those communities can get access to this and because when your congregating through world rather than just your backyard, there's more consumers for these products overall which means specialised products can flourish and it creates not just a growth and economic boom in and of itself, but it also means that what the economy is producing is better for the world at large.
And for those broad reasons, we definitely think that the internet has done more good than harm.