Not ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
So, in this debate we're gonna have two main arguments, the first is about when it's justified for the government to paternalize, and the second is about why age is an arbitrary standard for government policy.
Okay so firstly, on when we think it's just for the government to paternalize.
So, we think that the government's ability to dictate, what people's actions can and cannot be, is limited, based on the fact that the government doesn't have full information about them, and that a government that could dictate all personal actions would be in essence unjust, because it doesn't allow for the freedom and liberty that allows for people to have fulfilled lives.
But sometimes, they can paternalize.
What are those instances?
Firstly, we think when there's an asymmetry of information, in the case of some sort of market failure, we don't think that's the case that exists in the case of violent video games.
People know what they're getting out of violent video games, they know that there are studies out there that show that, potentially, minor could become more desensitized to to violence generally, if they see violence in their video games, if they play these violent video games.
This information is widely publicized, and in fact it's overblown dramatically in public discourse.
So, we think given that there's no real asymmetry of information, that people should be able to, for that reason, make decisions, in regard to what they're going to purchase, what they're going to allow their children to purchase.
So, secondly, we think the government is justified to paternalize when are long term harm.
So, people are really bad at making decisions with long term calculuses in mind, rather they're more short term creatures, but we don't think that this justification make sense either.
The reason for that is there's simply no more trade off, or no more worse harms to these video games than any other video games that one could play.
Yes, studies show that sometimes people can become desensitized, but the vast majority show that you're not going to be meaningfully more violent in your life, and in your interactions, because you play these video games, even if you're a minor.
And finally, when there's a significant public interest, we think the government can paternalize, but again, we don't think that that is the case here.
Recognize that, we already live in a culture that shows depictions of violence all the time, in our popular media, in our TV, in our cinema, in how we glorify different things in our society, in how we glorify armies and wars, and these types of things, violence is in the central part of the culture, and the time that we live in, and these video games are not a meaningful tipping point, and having minors become accustomed to seeing violence, especially in places like the united states, we just don't think that this is enough of a significant public interest to deny people's liberty.
So finally about age, and why it's arbitrary.
We would say that the state can't judge minors minors as actors, and they can't judge these people, because they have limited information about their level of maturity, and people grow and mature and take on different capabilities, at very different parts of their life.
Development is not the same kind of stages and time span for all people.
This is why we use parents as a proxy, for making decisions for minorities, for authority, we say that parents are those that have the most information about their children, about what their children can handle, about what types of media their children should be able to take in, because they are those that are closest to them, they have the most direct interest in their child's well being, because of the parental connection they have with them, and of course, they have the most information to anyone else about that child's life.
They've been responsible with that child, they've seen that child's growth and development, and they're much more easily capable of making decisions, about whether or not their child in specific instances, should be allowed to purchase a violent video game.
Certainly, a more informed decision than the government could ever make in this regard, and for those reasons, we say we should not ban the sale of violent video games to minors.