We should ban school uniforms.
Firstly we want to distinguish between school uniforms and dress code.
So we think that dress codes that explain the parameters that people have to maintain in in order to be within school are perfectly fine ensuring that people can't do things like wear very low cut dresses or wear very short shorts, things that may be prohibitive for people be being able to pay attention in class.
Those things are not within the realm of this debate.
But this about specifically how having a school institute one way that individuals must dress and forcing them to purchase that type of uniform.
Okay so, two reasons why you we think school uniforms are bad.
Firstly, the importance of creativity and secondly, they're classist.
So firstly on creativity: we think that very early on children should learn to be empowered through expressing themselves.
We think that too often in society children are forced to maintain very specific social standards that reduce their ability to be creative.
Creativity is crucial for children learning to understand how to have comprehensive problem solving techniques.
Creativity allows for people to express themselves broadly, to become diverse individuals that learn reach out and explore the things that they're interested in.
Repression through school uniforms runs contradictory to that.
And we think, especially within a school environment, children should be learning to want to explore broadly.
And one way to do that is through their dress.
Secondly, we think that the ability to present yourself in a particular way is crucial for self expression.
We think that the way one dresses an expression is an expression of who one is.
If you present yourself wearing a suit, you're trying to send a very different message then if you're presenting yourself wearing t-shirt and jeans or wearing a bathing suit or anything like that.
And while these things may be aesthetic and solely aesthetic these things are important and send social cues to individuals.
School is a social environment just like anywhere else and individuals within that social environment should be able to express and send the messages that they want to send amongst their peers.
When people are restrained to a specific school uniforms, we think that within this crucial time in an individual's life they're repressed both in what they're able to say to individuals and they're repressed in what they learn they're repressed in the way that they're learning to explore themselves and explore the things that they might be interested in such as their fashion, such as their presentation.
We also think that the way you dress just allows you to be comfortable.
Children shouldn't be focusing on what they're wearing when they're in their classroom.
They shouldn't be constantly caught up in feeling like they're not comfortable within what they're wearing.
And we think that school uniforms often force children into this position.
Maybe you want to maybe you want to present yourself in a certain way because it gives you motivation, it gives you some sort of fulfillment and it gives you an idea of comfort within your own skin.
And we don't think that this should be denied to children especially, people like teenagers that are in incredibly vulnerable social environments.
So secondly, we think that school uniforms are broadly classist.
Children don't just not wear clothing outside of their school.
It's not like they wear the school uniform they have on the weekends when they get home or all day in their extracurriculars.
So what school uniforms are do broadly is it forces parents to buy an additional two or three sets of clothing that they need to run through every week, that they need to clean every week and take care of every week.
We think that this means that poor communities and poor individuals are excluded from these schools and are excluded from these communities.
It means that these children are forced, if you're a poor student in these schools, are forced to wear clothing that is obviously worn down, clothing that may have been passed down, things that point you out as an individual that is outside of the norm and we don't think that's acceptable.
Or the alternative is that people are forced to dress a different way, that they're not able to afford those uniforms and again they're singled out.
Specifically because of their class.
We don't think this is necessary.
Given that the way someone dresses is such an easy way to make someone feel fulfilled, is such an easy way to allow them to express themselves and given that school uniform simply put undue costs on the parents, we think that we should ban school uniforms.