We should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.
So, what this would look like in reality is that, there would be age checks that ensure that, individuals, who are below a certain age, cannot buy video games, there already rating system, so we would say any video game that has intense violence would receive an m rating, and that people below the age of eighteen will not be able to buy these things, you would also be fined, or possibly punish to imprisoned for a short period of time, if you were to then give these video games to minors, so if you're a parent, and you give this video game to your child, you could face financial, or other types of repercussions.
Okay, so, two main arguments: the first is that youth is is immensely impressionable, and we need to prevent this impression from being attached to them, and the second is that youth are not full agents, and therefore it is fair to restrict them, when it gives them a different benefit.
Okay, so firstly on why youth is impressionable.
We think that, even though these violent video games are unlikely to lead to these types lead to these people like actually creating and committing crimes in the future.
What we think these things do is desensitize youth to the violence that exists around them.
And especially at a point, in which these people are very young, if they already become desensitized to these things, while they're young, we think they're unlikely to try and respond to them passionately and politically in the future.
And this is crucial, because we think that, if you don't have a politically active group, if you don't have a group of young people that see violence, and see the problems in the world, as something that need to be solved, as something that isn't normal and okay, that, what would likely happen is that, these people are less likely to be politically active, and motivated to change these things in the future.
We think, early in collocation, at such a young age, below eighteen, while eighteen may be an arbitrary line, we think that allowing people to have these things, at such an early age, is almost certainly going to result in long term ramifications, and it's possible that people, who see this type of violence, become so desensitized that they commit those crimes in the future.
Even if this is a marginal chance of happening, we think that these crimes can often be so heinous, murder, and other types of assault, that people learn from violent video games that normal like shootings and things like this, we think that, you shouldn't take these risks, especially because there's no positive benefit gained from allowing these people to have access to these video games, and as I'll explain in a moment, they're not full agents, and therefore restricting their rights is not a moral harm.
So, they're not full agents for a few reasons, which are crucial.
The first is that, simply legally, they're not recognized as full adults.
Under the law, which is the legal and moral system that states act under, these people are not fully autonomous individuals, and we recognize that by not allowing them to do things, like drink, vote, and otherwise interact with society in the same way that adults are able to.
We think under this legal system, given that there are certain risks that come from desensitizing these individuals, we think that, it is simply in line, with the logic of our legal system, to restrict them from being able to do this.
Furthermore, it's clear that individuals become more autonomous, and more able to make choices with age.
The further they've been socialized, the more they've been able to gain independence, in slow steps, from the time that they're born, to the time they leave their parent's house, are able to otherwise be independent at age eighteen.
We think that, there are significant social steps that these individuals go through, in which they gain autonomy, and they gain agency.
We don't think that people are simply born with these capabilities, but rather learn these capabilities through their socialization.
Given that these individual simply haven't been exposed to the world, in a way in which they can differentiate between the violence that exists in these video games, and the type of violence that's occurring, and how these things are distinct from the real world, we think that these individuals should not be exposed to these types of things.
So and finally, we think that the state has an obligation to correct for bad parents.
We think that, parents are not innately gifted with the ability to parent, and that sometimes they raise their children in improper ways.
Given that these types of video games are likely to desensitize their children, which, as I've already explained, is a crucial harm moving forward, we think that it's clear that, the state has an obligation to act, in this instance, in line with the legal code that already exists, and we should ban the sale of violent video games to minors.