Feminism brings more harm than good.
In this debate, to be clear, we want to say that we're not talking specifically about the ideas of equality that feminism preaches for.
What we're talking about in this debate is the movement of feminism itself and whether or not this is a movement that is helpful in achieving the goals of equality between the genders and allows for female advancement.
So that's the that's the perspective that we're going to take on this debate from this side of the house.
We're going to say that as a movement, feminism has been contradictory to achieving the goals of female equality.
So, we think there are two broad conceptions of feminism that exist, and while there's obviously diversity amongst these, we think that there are two waves of feminism, second wave and third wave ideologies, that are still prevalent within modern feminism today, and we are going to critique both of them.
So firstly, on second wave feminism.
Second wave feminism essentially preaches that there are certain stereotypes that wouldn't exist under within a patriarchal society, that understands needs of women as existing within the within the home and being in in a servile position within the home, being the home maker, and these other types of feminine ideals or feminized ideals of gender, of labor, of where women should and should not be, keeping them out of the workforce, keeping them out of politics.
And second wave feminism dictates that women all break these stereotypes, that women have a positive duty to break these stereotype.
So that women who want to stay in the work or who do not want to enter the workforce, who would like to live in kind of old old understandings of feminine life, old understandings of the woman in the household, things like this, that they should break these norms.
And there are other types of norms that women also need to go against, ideas of women as promiscuous and going against the ideas of women's sexuality not being control of themselves, things like this, breaking those things.
The problem with this is that dictating how women ought to behave, which is an essential part of second wave feminism, that women must behave in ways that go contradictory to patriarchal understandings of womanhood, essentially confines women to the same sorts of oppression that they're facing, not the same degree of oppression, but similar types of oppression that they face under under this current patriarchal society in which they live.
The other problem with this is that when women when the feminist movement acts in this way, as directly contradictory to current social mores, it becomes very unappealing to people that fall outside of those outside of the already progressive understanding that those social mores are bad.
By directing the conversation around certain types of social mores and not equality itself, the in a in a broad sense, it ends up turning people away from the movement, and that's why there's an understanding of feminism amongst many people, many conservative individuals, as being anti-men, as being against men, and not being for women, because they focus on gendered understandings of how people should behave.
So we think that that is directly harmful to the ability for women to achieve equality.
Third wave feminism, on the other hand, dictates that individuals should do whatever it is that makes them feel fulfilled.
So it's, instead of second wave, an entire lack of restraint.
The problem with this is that oftentimes, and while there's a diversity of third wave feminism, this often pressures people into living things living life in ways that they wouldn't see fit.
So for example, there are forms of third wave feminism that argue for taking control of one's sexuality and living a sexualized life because it allows them to be empowered.
There are other types of ways in which women can reclaim patriarchal notions and become empowered by them, but when this is the focal point of your type of feminism, reclaiming these types of things that have been dominant over women for so long, it also forces or pressures women into falling into the same stereotypes that have plagued them within a patriarchal society, falling into similar barriers that have already made women become oppressed within the same system.
So we think that the movement itself is fundamentally flawed by how it dictates the discussion and how it directs people in certain ways that are ultimately harmful to their own self actualization.
And for these broad reasons, we would say that feminism brings more harm than good.