We should subsidize biofuels.
Biofuels are types of fuel that come from renewable resources that are found in the environment, such as trees, plants, and even animal and human waste are things that can be made combustible, and therefore create biofuel.
These types of fuels are generally much cleaner for the environment, are much more capable are, on balance, less likely to have harmful emissions, and we think that we should start moving in a direction in which biofuels become the norm.
So, that's what we're going to talk about.
The first is that these things are relatively clean and renewable.
Unlike other resources such as fossil fuels that are finite in their supply, require immense amounts of environmental damage to extract, and produce massive amounts of carbon emissions that cause global warming, biofuels come naturally from the environment, are renewable in the sense that if you do not over-farm or you do not over-cultivate wherever you're getting this fuel from, you can continue to get renewable source of them and you can plant new sources of this, such planting new trees, crops, or getting more waste.
So, we think that biofuels are in the long run much more sustainable than other types of fuel sources, and can allow us to have a foundation of fuel that allows us to move forward into the future in a sustainable way.
But more importantly, we need to recognize where we are in the status quo in regards to global warming.
We're at a point in which unless we don't make very significant changes to the way we live our lives, in which we make significant changes to our carbon emissions, to our pollution, to the way we harm the environment, sea levels, global temperatures and rates of precipitation are all going to drastically alter, which give rise to incredible harms, especially amongst the most impoverished on our planet, but also to things like more natural disasters occuring more frequently and more strongly.
All these things have robust impacts on ourselves, on our children and on future generations, and if we don't act immediately these the harms will become irreversible, which means that if biofuels are safer for the environment, which they are, and if they're easier to produce without causing these huge harms, we think that this is a thing that humans must en masse start to use with more prevalence.
And we think the way that you get this is through subsidies, through making it more easily available on the market, cheaper to produce and cheaper to consume by subsidizing it via the government.
So, that's what we're going to say next, that subsidy will ultimately be useful.
So, recognize that in the status quo, biofuels are still more expensive to produce than fossil fuels, but that is that is a rate that is declining.
The long term trend is that biofuels are becoming cheaper as we become more knowledgeable about how to produce them, and more effective in our methods of doing so.
But we need the subsidy in the status quo to ensure that these biofuels can be competitive.
So it's not a subsidy that's unnecessary, because in the current market the biofuel simply isn't as reasonable for the average consumer, but we think that it's at a point at which it's lowering to such an amount that in the long run it's going to be more affordable than fossil fuels anyway, so it's not an infinite subsidy, you don't need to continue to subsidize this, but rather if you subsidize the things like development of biofuels, it allows you to create these technologies even quicker, which means long term cost on consumers go down, and it means that the short term costs on consumers, the cost of subsidizing these things to ensure the safety of our future, also stay low because it increases the rate at which development of technology happens.
We think that the subsidy will be effective in ensuring that consumers are able to achieve these things, and we think that given the massive harms that we know are caused by our current fuel consumption, we need to act now and we need to act seriously.
We think that subsidizing biofuels are one way to start that process, and a step on the right direction.
And for those reasons, we should subsidize biofuels.