We should ban boxing.
At the beginning of this this debate, we think there's something important to recognize about boxing, which is that oftentimes, when we consider whether or not we should ban something, there are often reforms that can be associated with whatever we are considering banning, that could alleviate much of the harm that arises from the thing that is being banned.
But when it comes to boxing, we simply don't think that it is possible to reform it, to the point where it isn't simply a blood sport, where at, its very basis, boxing is this thing, in which we pay to see two people beat themselves up, to see them brutalize each other, and we get this this pleasure, this visceral pleasure from seeing this type of bloody violence.
We think that at its heart, that is what boxing is, and we think that in any other context, we wouldn't view boxing as a sport, but as a crime.
We think that just because two people may be able to consent into going into a boxing match, it doesn't mean that the signals, the social implications of boxing, don't have reverberations that are unjust, and it doesn't mean that those people can immediately consent into these things.
So, this is what we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about harms to the self, to boxers themselves, and we're going to talk about the bad social impacts from boxing.
So firstly, on the boxers themselves.
Boxing as a sport is one of the most dangerous sports that exist.
Concussions and brain damage are incredibly common, arising from boxing.
People oftentimes suffer from long term brain damage, because of the damages they take during boxing.
Concussions concussions are likely going to arise, when people are hitting each other in the head, on a near daily basis, for training and these types of things.
We think that it's simply likely that this physical toll, on a regular basis, is going to arrive in long term harm.
So, we don't think people are capable of internalizing it.
Because people can't internalize, they can't fully fathom the harms that they're taking upon themselves, we don't think it's actually possible for them to consent in a meaningful way, because they can't properly weigh the gains that they could potentially get from boxing, against those long term harms, and we think in these instances, the government or the state is justifying in banning people from taking these actions.
We don't think you can we think you can restrict the action, as long as you're doing it for the long term good of individuals, who otherwise wouldn't be able to take these things into account.
As far as the bad social impacts, we think that, what you're essentially doing with boxing is paying people to beat each other up.
We think that this is obviously, firstly, a horrible use of capital.
We think that, even if that amount of money is a small amount of money, it could be used for almost anything else, in a productive social manner, that isn't being used for boxing.
We think anything else you put it towards is likely going to be a social net gain, compared to boxing.
We also think it desensitizes people to violence.
In a world, in which we are constantly we are constantly observing violence, whether it's in the news, or in our media, we think that we're already desensitized to it to such a great degree, that we shouldn't continue to desensitize ourselves, by paying people to brutalize each other.
We think that it's unjust for society, to present these norms to individuals, and to present these opportunities to individuals, that prey against our visceral desires, that we think that this is something that people recognize as bad, that they recognize as problematic, but we viscerally act against those rational ideas.
We think, that we should legislate based on the rational ideas that we hold.
Recognizing that boxing is, in and of itself, a violence that people commit against each other, that it incentivize people to harm each other, it incentivize people to get into this sport, to harm others and to harm themselves, it makes those people more violent, and it makes our society more accepting of violence in the long run.
For all these reasons, we should ban boxing.