Private education brings more good than harm.
So two things we want to talk about in this debate are why private education allows for more autonomy and allows for better education and secondly, why it's essential to have competition between public and private options.
Okay so firstly, on why education is crucial and why this is good for education.
We think that education is certainly crucial because without having a foundational education firstly, there's no way to have a well rounded understanding of self.
You can't acquire other skills without having a foundational education that allows you to move forward.
So without being able to read, write and access other avenues of information you simply have no ability, you don't have the tools to enrich yourself in your private life which means that education as a foundational system is crucial.
Given that it is so crucial and given that people are forced to be through education systems in the united states for twelve years and in other areas for and other developed countries approximately the same amount of time, we think that it's preferable for individuals to have choice over that education.
We think that parents ultimately have a better understanding of the type of education that is required for their children to succeed than the government does and given that that's the case we think that private education allows for more options.
It allows for different types of educational styles that parents can choose from.
What we see with private education is a few things.
We think you get more innovation in how you teach because when you have public education you often have regulations that are dictated from state or federal levels which constrain what you can do in the classroom.
They constraint how you can teach, they constrain what you can teach, they constrain what the classroom itself looks like.
Private education allows for people to make those decisions on their own.
You can go to a system in which stem education is preferred in which your child is going to spend the vast amount of their time in stem classes.
You can put your child in a private school in which religion is part of the educational system in which a child of a religious family is able to attain the religious education that is essential in the eyes of their parents.
It also means that people can go to schools in which you have different settings for the classroom where you spend most of your time in the outdoors or you go on trips.
These are all things that allow for more individual learning and as we learn more and more about how people educate themselves, what becomes more apparent is that one method of education does not work for everyone.
That people learn in a variety of different ways and we think that private education allows for people to have more choice that aligns better with how they learn and what they need to learn.
So given that that is the case, we think more choice is what private education offers and that is always on good.
The second reason why private education brings more good than harm is that it provides competition for public schools.
Recognize that without private education the only provider of education would be the state which means that the state would automatically get the money that people put in through taxes, that the state would automatically get control over the children's education, would automatically would automatically have control over all these years without any sort of competition that ensures that they're doing a good job.
Yes parents can complain and they can vote elected officials out, but ultimately we think this has very little impact on the educational system itself.
It has very little impact on federal and state regulations and things of the like.
Given that this is the case we think that private education means that a flight of money, of teachers, of administrators, is all likely to happen if a school simply does not succeed.
If a school doesn't provide the basic necessities for their students and when this is the case it means that in areas where schools are already failing, there are alternate options that people can choose to turn to and it means that schools, public schools, need to continue to evolve.
They need to continue to innovate and continue to improve their standing in order to compete for the best teachers and the best administrators and in order to stay open because just because they're publicly run doesn't mean that these schools don't have an incentive, a desire to maintain their to maintain their school and to keep their doors open.
Given that private education is an option that allows for more choices and provides competition that we think raises the bar of education for everyone in the school system not just those that can afford private education, we think that private education brings more good than harm not only for those that go to these private schools but also in public schools.