Internet censorship brings more good than harm.
So obviously we need to set the parameters of this debate.
We think that clearly when we're talking about this debate it's a certain types of censorship are what we're discussing.
So what we mean by this is we don't think that censorship that is politically motivated is within the parameters of this debate.
This type of censorship that is done based on trying to repeal people's ability to see corruption, the ability for people to have an understanding of what's going on in the government and to silence different political parties, we think that those types of censorship are problematic but rather, we think that internet censorship as it actually happens, trying to avoid things like hate speech and the dumping of private data, the way that internet censorship ends up working in liberal countries in reality is what actually brings more good than harm and that's what we should be discussing in this debate.
So we're going to talk about a few things and why internet censorship is so important.
We think that anonymity leads to huge harms that need to be avoided for individuals.
So firstly, anonymity has led to the increase in cyberbullying and the spread of images and data dumps.
What this looks like is that individuals wind up having sensitive photos stolen, or through hacking of their private information, have their data stolen that can reveal very sensitive information about them, and that information can be published anywhere on the internet from anonymous individuals who it is very difficult to track down.
When you don't censor the spread of this information, what ends up happening is that people's privacy is violated in a fundamental way.
And it's not like these people have the ability to opt out of technology.
It's become so synonymous with our society to have things like a smartphone, a computer, all the things in which you would store data that can be hacked.
And given that these are basically requirements of where we live now, when people's privacy is violated within these things, it's crucial that the government censor those types of things.
Especially when it comes to things like cyberbullying amongst adolescents which has drawn to record high suicide rates over the past decade due to how people have been treated on the internet with anonymity and we need to ensure that those types of things do not happen.
We also think it's easy to to form hate groups on to assemble on the internet.
It's very easy for these things to happen.
So with open forums on websites like 4chan and reddit it's very easy for hate groups to come together even under very overt signs of their hate.
Even under making forums on the internet that explicitly speak positively of groups like the nazis and the KKK.
And because of the fact that you can be anonymous on the internet, people are more willing to come together and discuss in these forums to talk about their hatred and to speak it openly because they know that they can't be scorned scorned for these types of things in their real life.
They can't be given they can't be excluded from their social connection within their neighborhood, within their community, because no one will know about their anonymous feelings, about their private feelings.
When you allow these types of groups to gain leverage or to gain traction on the internet it leads to people making stands in real life, it leads to people feeling hatred in their real life, it leads to these groups because they feel empowered, because they're able to connect with so many people that they may not have been able to do in their local communities and makes them more likely to come out and to try it makes it more likely for these individuals to act in reality.
And we think that internet censorship of these types of forums allows for protections against this.
Finally, it's important to recognize that no free speech is absolute.
The internet is a forum for people that speak their mind and that's great, but free speech can be used to harm people in a multitude of ways.
When lies can be pervaded on the internet through fake news, when privacy can be dumped without people having any sort of control over these things, when hate can spread through groups like the KKK being able to actively organize on the internet, all these things require government censorship in order to avoid rights violations outside of the internet.
We don't think that internet censorship means that you need to hide that you need to censor legitimate news organizations or that you need to censor different political organizations but in the way in which internet censorship is actually done in the status quo, we certainly think that it brings more good than harm.