We should legalize cannabis.
To be clear in this debate we're not saying that we should decriminalize cannabis, but we but what we would do is legalize the possession, sale, use, every type of ownership of cannabis that you can have and we're going to do it at a federal, state, and local level.
Everywhere we say cannabis should be legal.
So we're gonna talk about three things.
The first is why the war on drugs is bad.
The seconds is about why cannabis and weed are good, and the third is about the economic boom that will come with the legalization of cannabis.
So recognized that the war on drugs is unjust.
The war on drugs simply restricts the ability for people to choose what they're going to do what their bodily autonomy.
The fact that I can't choose what I'm going to put in my own body and to do so would have no impact on other people.
You can criminalize things that you do while being intoxicated just like we criminalize driving under the influence of alcohol without criminalizing the use of the substance itself and we think that criminalize use itself and possession and sale of this particular object would need to have much dramatically worse effects than it actually does.
We we also recognize that in the status quo the way that cannabis is made illegal is incredibly discriminatory.
Individuals in the united states use cannabis at approximately the same rate between race, yet black people in the united states are exponentially more likely to be arrested and convicted for cannabis possession than any other demographic in the united states and we think that this is a method of the fact that the war on drugs itself came out of a time at which the government was attempting to oppress the votes of liberals and of minorities within the country and that that idea, that central core of what the war on drugs is about and was about maintains to this very day.
We also think that it leads to cycles of incarceration because when individuals are put in jail because of cannabis possession or cannabis sale or use of what have you, what ends up happening is they are shut out from other job opportunities in more professional atmospheres and they resort to selling drugs in the future and it only leads to a cycle of incarceration.
We think all of this is bad and makes the legalization of cannabis a necessity.
The second reason is that cannabis is just good.
It's safer than alcohol and tobacco and studies have shown that it has immense medical purposes.
It may have incredibly varied medical purposes as well and as long as we as cannabis remains legal, it's incredibly difficult to study these types of things and even if you are able to get enough cannabis in a lab to study these things, that lab is constantly a threat of being shut down.
Even if that isn't the case and you're able to do real serious research on this it's like developing a medicine that you know is never going to be able to be used.
Even if as cannabis does is shown to say reduce the risk of seizures in people with epilepsy, reduce pain for those that suffer from chronic pain, reduce symptoms of depression, and lead to people being able to eat after they've been exposed to chemotherapy for cancer, all these benefits have been shown to work from cannabis but we simply do not get the benefits of those things when it remains illegal.
The final thing I'm going to talk about is the economic boom that comes from cannabis.
When we see that states like colorado and washington have legalized cannabis in the status quo, we don't see what many denouncers expected which is a rise on crime.
We saw a slight increase in use of cannabis but this ended up going down as the law went on.
We think there is a brief spike after the fact but we think that's natural, but what we did see is a massive economic boom for people in colorado and washington because people come to these areas for weed tourism but more importantly, it means that all of the money that is currently being centralized and focused into cartels is shifted into real businesses that can be taxed and regulated.
This means that even if you think that cannabis is bad, even if you think that cannabis is something that no one should ever use, what we've seen from the war on drugs is that prohibition is massively ineffective.
What is more effective is taking the tax revenue that you get from legalizing cannabis, the millions and millions of dollars in potential tax revenues from this new industry and you put it into things like education, prevention, and all those types of metrics.
Given that the the fact that cannabis is illegal in the status quo only leads to harms.
It only leads to people not being being able to use their autonomy, get medical benefits and drastically disenfranchises people of color and other minorities in the united states.
We think that we absolutely should legalize cannabis.