We should not be and trans fats usage in food.
So we're gonna have to main arguments today.
The first is about the role of government and why bans of this nature are simply not part of the job of the government, and second we're gonna talk about why even if you don't believe that, this itself is an improper ban, because of the disparate impacts it has particularly on classes.
So firstly, on the role of the government: we think that the government is an inherently coercive body and what we mean by this is that people, for the most part, are born into the place where they are governed, they're either born into those places or, because of reasons that are largely outside of their control, or because of the comparative cost benefit analysis, move into a different area.
But it's very difficult to escape the reach of government altogether.
Which means the choice or the fact that you are within a government's borders are things that are coercive based on the mere fact of your existence in human society.
And despite the fact that this might just be the normal state of affairs, we think it's still clearly coercive insofar as people have no meaningful way to consent or to opt out and revoke their consent from the government.
What we think this means is that in order for the government to be justified, or as justified as possible, it needs to offset these coercive things by making the government a freedom maximizing body.
We think what this largely looks like is trying to legislate in such a way where any prohibitions you place onto people, any inaction that you, any action that you stop them from doing or any inaction you force upon them is existing solely to maximize the freedom of the whole.
To make it more easy for people to access freedom en masse.
And this is why we think that laws against murder and things like that, that revoke other people's bodily autonomy, are justified because you legislate in such a way that you're trying to increase the amount of freedom.
That the freedom to commit murder is outweighed by the freedom that other people have to like be alive generally, and that this is like the kind of right system that people would be willing to consent into even it if they were to have the ability to have meaningful consent.
So, we think in that nature that this thing simply, this ban simply does not fall under the role of government in that sense.
Eating or having trans fat doesn't impede on any other person's ability, any other person's freedom in any meaningful way, and for that reason we don't think that this can be something that can be banned.
Because it is simply outside of the scope of the government to tell people and to force upon people this type of a rule.
Yes maybe it would make people healthier if they didn't have trans fat, but it's not the job of the government to try and create perfectly healthy human beings, the job of the government is to let people be educated, to know that trans fats are bad for them and then if they so choose to freely decide to eat or not eat them.
That is how you maximize freedom.
But secondly, even if you don't think that any of that is true, why do we think this is an improper ban?
Well, recognize that trans fats largely impact low cost food.
These are processed foods things that people can get relatively cheap.
What this means is that the burden of banning these types of food is largely placed on poor communities.
And this is because if they can't have these types of foods, their alternative is higher cost foods, things that they in large part can't afford, or are less able to afford, and therefore cuts into their budget etcetera.
There's also no asymmetry of information.
Which means it's not like there's some sort of social harm that is being done because people don't know what they're putting into their body with trans fat.
People know there's no people are knowledgeable about this information and still choose to do these things.
They're making an informed choice.
And finally, there's no immediate harm that can come from this.
People can offset the harms of consuming trans fats through things like exercise and portion control.
It's simply a disparate impact that largely harms poor communities, that otherwise in a world in the world otherwise people have enough information to make a logical choice about whether or not they're going to consume trans fats, an over arching all of this is the fact that this ban is simply not the job of the government.
For these reasons we should not and trans fats usage in food.