Multiculturalism brings more good than harm.
When we're talking about multiculturalism what we mean is is to have a diverse set of cultures interacting with each other and existing, and co-existing in one proximate location.
This doesn't necessarily mean that these cultures are blending together in any particular way but it's just that these cultures are able to coincide and to exist with one another.
What this is, this could be compared to societies in which there's a monoculture or one prevailing social idea of how to live, or the types of food, all the things that wrapped up in what cultural reasons.
So, we're going to talk about two things: we're talk about culture as an expression of the self and culture as an expression of society.
So firstly, we think that culture is incredibly important to one's expression of the self.
We would say that society constructs the self.
That individuals are not blank slates from tabula rasa monoliths that walk through society and make themselves, but rather they are created by the society that they are born in.
They learn from the culture that surrounds them and their tastes are attracted to that which their cultures bred them to be attracted to.
So, individuals have particular desires for things that their culture dictates them to have.
Whether this is a desire to live a particular type of lifestyle or to live an active or not active lifestyle whether to pursue particular types of sports or foods or things like that.
We think that all of these, and a variety of other preferences, are embodied within the culture that one has.
So multiculturalism allows for better expression of the self and more self fulfillment.
This is for two reasons: firstly, the diversity of cultures when it exists allows for people who do not feel safe or connected to their particular culture to find other expressions and other outlets for the things that they care about.
It allows them to explore and to learn more about what the world has to offer.
About the many variety of ways in which the individuals may live, and from there to find one that is more fulfilling.
It means that individuals that feel trapped within their communities have an outlet in which they can express that express that anxiety and from there we think multiculturalism allows for a diverse group of people to live simultaneously without having to impede each other's desires.
We also think that more cultures build more diverse people.
So even if people don't feel excluded from their own culture, we think that when individuals get the type of cultural education that comes with living amongst a variety of cultures, they're able to better understand their own culture they're better to able understand their own habits their own practices, and they're more able to critically examine those things, which means that when they're problematic they're more likely to turn away from them which we think is good broadly, but it also means that they can take other cultures into their own life and become more diverse and well rounded individuals which again leads for more avenues of self expression.
Secondly, multiculturalism in society.
We think, firstly, that when you have a multicultural a multicultural society it makes it easier for other microcultures and smaller subsets of cultures to develop.
This, again, we think is preferable because in a society in which more cultural exploration is encouraged, it ensures that more people are able to express themselves in the way they want and not be demonized for how they express themselves, which we think is ultimately an expression of freedom and good within society.
We also think it leads to more accepting citizens.
So, even if you do not have the cultural beliefs or the cultural practices of your neighbor, when you're able to interact with those people and see them as human, and ensures that you don't just view culture as a monolith but as something that people take part in.
It ensures that you have more tolerant human beings broadly, because it means that individuals are able to understand that other cultures are not threats to their own, that other cultures don't impede their ability to live, and from there we think it leads to a more accepting society broadly.
When you are able to live side by side with other cultures, when you're able to live in a society in which you're not directly tied to the culture that you've been born into and you live in a multicultural society, we think that you breed a better social background and a better blending of cultures that helps people and helps maintain society.
And for that reason we think multiculturalism brings more good than harm.