Brings more harm than good.
In this debate, we're going to talk primarily about two outcomes that we think are specifically derived from the increased use of the internet.
Firstly, we're going to talk about shorter attention spans and the cultural implications of such, and secondly, we're going to talk about the impact of technology and the addiction to technology on our health.
So, recognize that the internet is inextricably linked with the increased use of computers, the increased use of smartphones, technology.
The internet is a central focal point of the technological evolution that has occurred over the last twenty or thirty years, let's say.
We think that therefore you can derive a lot of the impacts the internet simply from looking at the technology that we use and how we use it.
So, firstly, let's talk about shorter attention span.
The internet has allowed for content to be created in a way that has never before been possible, which means that there is much more content available for entertainment and much more content information available to be consumed, which means that individuals can go to many different sources to receive different types of utility and different types of pleasure.
What we think this means is that it creates a norm of individuals being able to receive instant gratification, which means that individuals are less capable of waiting to derive their gratification from their activities.
We think that this is a problem for a few reasons.
Firstly, it leads to individuals having shorter attention spans, which means they're less able to or they're less capable and less willing to grapple with really complex issues that may not be immediately available immediately capable for them to understand, so we think that people are less likely to go through intellectual rigor when they're used to being able to receive instant gratification.
Secondly, we think it leads to a norm where long term planning is less normalized.
So what we mean by this is that life planning requires many different types of financial outlays, and different types of plans being put in place that allow you to have security into the future.
We think that when individuals are more momentary oriented, so more oriented into the present, we think that they're less likely to do the types of things that can ensure that in the long run they're able to have they're able to have these types of deep plans for their future.
And finally, we think that the instant gratification and the short attention spans lead to individuals being less interpersonally related to each other.
We think that individuals, because of the internet, are by far less able to have face to face interactions and are less capable of holding deep and personal relationships over long periods of time.
We think that normal human life isn't as fast paced as the internet, isn't as dramatic as the internet, isn't as capable of evolution as the internet, but it's still an essential part of what makes human life worth living, the interpersonal interactions, and we think the internet has trained us not to be as capable of holding these types of interactions.
So, lastly, we're going to talk about the health impacts of the internet, because we think they also exist.
The way that individuals currently use their free time, their entertainment on the internet is largely by spending their time in bed, sitting on their couch, sitting in front of their TV, or sitting in front of a screen, which is not what we are biologically determined to do, it's not what our biology has created us for.
Our bodies are made to be active, our bodies are made to move and to do activity, to stand, to walk, not to spend our life sitting on the couch or sitting in front of a screen.
Our eyes aren't made to use screens as constantly, they are an impact, our eye our vision is getting worse.
Our hands are not made to type on computers and to hold controllers to play games on the internet.
All of these types of things are dependent and seen on the internet has long term implications on our health.
Simply from the way we position our bodies to the impact that has on our posture, to our vision, to our hearing, all these things are impacted by an increased addiction to technology that isn't natural, that have long term implications on the health of individuals, and we think that this, coupled with the impacts that the internet has brought upon our society about upon the way that we interact with each other, and about the functioning that we're able to do as individuals, we think that for all these reasons the internet has clearly brought more harm than good.