Suicide should not be a criminal offense.
We have one basic argument in this round, but we think it is crucial to determine whether or not suicide should be a criminal offense and that is that based on the principles of punishment, based on the reasons that we punish on a philosophical level, suicide is not something that we believe you can justifiably punish for.
So we're going to explain why that's the case now.
So is why suicide not worthy of punishment?
To punish means that there were some sort of wrongdoing.
Any punishment must be associated with a wrongdoing otherwise it is no longer a punishment.
To punish without just cause is simply to do an act of harm on to another person and therefore definitionally, is not punishment.
For example, if I were to put someone that was falsely accused and falsely convicted into jail, we may call what that person is experiencing in jail punishment but in reality it's not punishment because he isn't being punished for any sort of wrongdoing.
He is simply being punished as a set of circumstances that he is being put into based on that person being wrongly accused.
So there needs to be some sort of complementary part to a punishment that being crime.
We think that people using their freedom to take their own life may be unfortunate, but it is a free choice and it does not meet any of the criteria as to what we would consider a crime.
So why do we actually punish?
Well, because when someone inflicts harm onto a victim, when they turn someone from another human being to someone that they have done harm to, they disregard the rights of that other human being and therefore they've willed a world where people can disregard their own rights.
They have said they'd said explicitly through their actions they do not care about the rights protections that protect their own rights because they've chosen to disregard those rights in the case of another person.
We do not believe it is possible to be the victim of your own crime.
This is because rights have value solely because individuals internalize that value.
So if people no longer hold any sort of value of those rights, if they no longer feel the value of those rights within them and they no longer think they're important than those rights by default no longer become valuable and you can choose not to take advantage of those rights.
In fact within our society people choose not to take advantage of those facts of those rights all the time.
So like if I have the right to freedom of speech, I don't necessarily need to express that freedom of speech.
If I have the right to mobility and the right to move from one area to another, I may choose not to express that right.
Just because the right to life is one of the most foundational rights though we have, does not mean that it is not just another right, just another right that has been constructed within our society and therefore someone may choose justifiably not to use that right.
We believe that given that suicide is a victimless crime, it is a crime in which you are not doing harm onto another individual, you are not saying that that writes framework is invaluable because you are disregarding the rights of people by choosing not to uphold the not to act upon your own right and in doing so we do not think that you can principally punish for suicide.
You cannot punish for a suicide attempt without inflicting punishment in the unjust manner and therefore we do not believe that suicide should be a criminal offense.