The palestinian right of return is justified.
So, what the right of return entails is that, palestinians who were forced out of their homeland, by the british, and other colonial powers, and the establishment of the israeli state, should have the ability to return to the land that they had taken from them, should have the ability to return to the israeli state as full citizens, or should otherwise, if they choose not to return to, or are physically incapable of returning, they should be compensated justly for the land that was taken from them, proportionate to the value of that land, as it would accrued in the status quo.
So, a couple of arguments as to why the right of return is justified.
We would say that, the taking of this land in its very nature was unjust.
We recognize that, both both palestinians and jews have a claim to that land as their homeland, and that both have claims of having that land taken from them in the past, but we would say that proximity is important, when differentiating between these claims.
Recognize that palestinians had this land for a more recent time, and had this had this land for an extended period of time, developed roots and cultural attachments to that land, and established communities within that land.
All these things allowed them to, in the present time in which the land was taken from them, form meaningful connections with the land that they had, and with the communities that exist in this land.
When the british power broke apart this land, they broke apart this community, and they gave palestine to the israelis, to the it ensured that this group would be able to return, but simply at the cost of the culture, and the people that existed there in the status quo, and while both people have a claim to this land, in creating a harm that and harm upon palestinians, that were forced out of this area, your again creating the same harm, replicating the harm that was placed upon the jews, and there's no way to deal with this, if you're going to allow the establishment of a jewish state, in which these palestinians can be marginalized, which is what happens in the status quo.
Given that this was an imperialist taking of land, that had no consent from the people that existed there, and reproduce the harm that the creation of this land, or the creation of the israeli state was meant was meant to solve for, we think that the taking of the land is not only harmful and unjustified, but also hypocritical.
So we think that, this also had dramatic and detrimental harms on the palestinian people.
It pushed a government into this area that didn't care for the palestinians, in the same way that it cared for new people entering that land.
It didn't provide them with the same equal protections, that they otherwise would have been able to do, and it didn't justly compensate them for this land, which means that people who, otherwise, accrued wealth, and value, and the property that they had there and other types of things, were forcibly removed from these areas, and weren't able to receive that same value.
So, everything that they developed in this time, everything they developed in connection with the land, was taken from them.
Given that this is the case, we think at the very least, these people deserve compensation for that, even in the society in which these people cannot re-enter physically, we think they're certainly justified in the claim to have compensation, but furthermore we think that you need to have a fair meeting point, that given that both sides have a claim to this land, and that both sides have ties to this land, that are valuable both to them and to the world, we think that it's crucial that you come to some sort of fair a fair resolution, that gives recompense to both parties.
What we think this has to entail is the ability for people to return to their homeland, to return to the place that they have deep cultural connections, deep roots with these areas, and to allow them to live there in peace, and coincide with each other.
We don't think that it's impossible for jews and palestinians to co-exist.
We don't think it's impossible for these groups to get along peacefully, and we don't think it dilutes the experience of jews, living in this area, to have neighbors that are palestinians, that may not share the same cultural value, given that both both sides of this conflict would be able to extract their value from this land, were palestinians allowed to return.
Given that, the taking of the land in the first place was unjust, and doing so cost massive harms and ramifications for palestinians, we would say that the palestinian right of return is justified.