Compulsory voting is not advantageous.
Instead of compulsory voting, we would advocate for a system of laws that ensures that people's right to vote is fundamentally protected, that possibly there's a holiday on on election day, so that individuals are ensured that they're able to go to vote, that businesses are prosecuted and are banned from not allowing people to take time off of work to vote.
All these things should be in place, but once the negative right to voting is guaranteed, that individuals who choose to vote are freely capable of doing so, we don't think it's right for the government to force people to vote in elections.
So there two reasons for this: firstly, we don't think that fundamentally, based on their nature, rights can be forced.
We think that people that rights are given in order for people to access utility, that exist for them.
So the right to life exists so that I can access the utility I gained from being alive.
The right to travel, the right to freely, all of these things exist so that I can gain utility from the expression of those rights.
If I choose not to vote, if the practice of voting, the right to vote does not grant me utility, I should not be then forced to vote in any given election.
This means that individuals it means that I am not gaining utility from that right and thus the purpose of the right is undermined.
And as that is the case, we think that rights that are granted by the government should be negative rights.
That there are rights that essentially equate to a freedom to behave in a certain way, and if I choose not to behave in that way, there should not be a positive description that I do so.
Secondly, we think it removes voting as a means of legitimizing the government.
So people are not able, broadly, to choose the government that they live in.
People that live in a state are largely born there, or they brought there shortly after their birth or they were forced to move there by their circumstances, etcetera.
Given that this is the case, voting as a means by which the government can legitimate itself, the people choose to vote freely, it means they condone the the fact that the government exists, they condone the practice of the election itself, and it means that individuals are freely able to grant their consent to the government as it exists, in the most meaningful way that that could possibly exist.
Because you can't just have a consent form for every single person that is born.
But voting is a way to approximate that.
Not voting can also be used as a protest.
Not voting can show your dismay at the government, dismay at the structures, and general irregard for the election process itself.
But compulsory voting also denies people that right.
So it denies them a means of political expression.
Secondly, we think it forces uneducated people to vote.
So if you already have this the structures that exist that allow people to vote if they choose to do so, we think that when you simply force people to vote, it often means that you're going to force individuals to vote that don't have any particular understanding of the issues that are at stake, or what the harms that may come from their vote.
And voting broadly democracy broadly isn't good in and of itself.
Democracy we think is positive because it leads to positive outcomes.
But if individuals are forced to vote, and are forced to make decisions on things that they aren't educated on, it means that they often end up voting based on misinformation or based on flashy advertisements and they vote against their interest.
We think that in so far as that's the case, compulsory voting forces people to act in a way that can run directly contradictory to what is in their best interest.
We also think that individuals that choose to become educated, that choose to take the time to vote, that choose to take the time to learn about the issues, are the ones that are most likely going to vote, which means without compulsory voting, you probably are going to get a more educated voter base which means that we think broadly, you're going to get better outcomes than you otherwise would if every person were forced to vote.
No matter what they were educated for or no matter how educated they were on the issues and no matter how much they cared about the election that was at stake.
And given that this is the case, we think that you should prefer to have a system in which the most educated and the people that care the most are the ones that are dictating the outcomes of a particular election and in which people are free to choose whether or not they're going to vote.
And for that reason we think that compulsory voting is not advantageous.