We should not ban cosmetic surgery.
So, we're gonna give two broad reasons for why we think it is unjust to ban cosmetic surgery.
The first is that this would be an unjustified and unprincipled ban and that it goes beyond the boundaries of what is legitimate state control, and secondly, we think that cosmetic surgery is perfectly acceptable if it helps people improve their personal image.
All right, so on an ujust ban: we would say that the state is a massively coercive body.
It has the power to wield immense influence over people's lives because it has a monopoly on the legitimate use of force within its borders.
This means that the state has the ability to use the coercive apparatus to control how people behave.
But people are unable to fully consent to the state.
The vast majority of people are just born into the state that they live in, or they were forced to live in the state by the circumstances out of their control.
And we don't mean like forced like someone was literally forcing them in, but because they couldn't live in a stateless area and because the circumstances of what they were living with dictated that they ought to go to that state, but they couldn't consent to all of the laws and all of the control that the state has.
Without consent, the state is fundamentally a bully or a cartel and in order to become just, it must find a principle for governance that is a proxy for consent.
We think that people would opt into the state and do opt into the state because outside of the state, there are no protections of freedom.
You have an infinite amount of freedom, but you can never wield it because there's no authority to ensure that that freedom can be used.
The state exists, ultimately, in order to ensure freedom in a very fundamental sense, and we think thus a ban, which is the opposite of ensuring freedom, it is restricting freedom, can only occur under strict conditions.
One of those conditions would be, say, an asymmetry of information that causes direct harm upon the individual.
But cosmetic surgery doesn't do that.
You have doctors that inform you about what's going to happen with that cosmetic surgery, and the vast majority of cosmetic surgery is safe.
Secondly, there can be a direct third-party harm.
This is why we ban things such as murder, assault, theft, all these types of things, these things that we typically think of crimes we think of as crimes.
And it's when someone does an action and evokes their freedom but in doing so, removes or hinders the freedom or corrects a direct third-party harm necessarily through their action, not by accident but necessary, you know, the a necessary outcome of murder is that someone else is dead.
Or finally, there could be some sort of overwhelming good of the community.
But we we just don't think that's the case here when it comes to cosmetic surgery.
There's no infinite good that is created by banning cosmetic surgery.
Some would say that there are bad norms in our society that cosmetic surgery helps to perpetuate, but that's this is such a small drop in the bucket small drop in the bucket regarding how people view beauty standards and how people view their personal image that as we're as we think we think that this is actually beneficial.
So there are so many reasons in this world today that people have poor personal beauty standards and that people view themselves in poor ways.
And it is almost certainly the case that people should not feel this way about themselves, that bad body image problems are things that people should not hold, but that is not how these things work.
That's not how someone's thinking works.
People have these beliefs about themselves and they can't just choose to feel good about their body image.
But something that can help is cosmetic surgery.
If someone has the funds to have cosmetic surgery done to them and they have some sort of particular thing that they think will make them feel better, there's no reason that people should not, under their own freedom, knowing full well what the costs of cosmetic surgery are, knowing the stigma around it, why they should not be allowed to take this action and to have cosmetic surgery.
This goes dramatically outside of the bounds of what the government is justified in doing, and it doesn't do anything to improve the state or people's protection.
For these reasons, we should not ban cosmetic surgery.