We should ban spanking.
So, we think that the penalty for spanking would be similar to minor forms of child abuse, in which people would have to be overseen by the government, there would be some sort of intervention, to make sure that the child is in a safe and productive home, and that there would be checkups occasionally to ensure that repeated abusive behavior isn't occurring, and of course if spanking escalates, or if it continues in some manner, a child can be taken out of the home, but this wouldn't be the first instance, this wouldn't be done in the first instance, but it would certainly be a penalty eventually.
Given that, we have a model, we think there are two main reasons why we should ban spanking.
The first is that, we don't think parents are the ultimate moral arbiters or have unique parenting knowledge, that make them capable of making these decisions, and secondly that, there are real harms that come from spanking.
So firstly, on parents.
We would say that any individuals can become parents, it doesn't require any sort of specialized knowledge, it doesn't require any capability of actually raising the child, it doesn't require a certain temperament, it just requires getting someone pregnant, and raising the child with that individual, or becoming pregnant yourself of course.
So, given that this is the case, we don't think that parents should be revered as having some sort of special knowledge, or ability to know that their actions will lead to a good end.
We think that, that is a problem in the status quo, that there's an assertion by individuals that parents should have the autonomy to treat their children as they see fit, because they know what is best in their specialized interest, but this simply isn't the case.
Not all parents are experts on what their impacts will be on their children moving forward, not all not all parents are experts in childhood development, and frankly, a lot of parents simply don't know what they're doing, when they have a child.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that parents should have full autonomy to treat these children in a way that, we would never allow them to treat other adults.
We also think that, it's crucial to recognize that, children have no ability to fight back against this.
Children have no power in this relationship, and therefore if there's some sort of abuse that is coming out of this, if the child is receiving too much or an incommensurable amount of harm, based on what they're being punished for, or educated on, or what have you.
We think that there's no way for a child to check on this, and therefore, given that the child is in such an asymmetry of power position, that they're so lacking in this ability to advocate for themselves, that the state should be extra precautious, and ensuring that children will never be spanked or never be harmed disproportionately to what, even people that would favor spanking would say, is fair.
But secondly, there's also real harms that come from spanking.
Recognize that, just because we call it spanking doesn't mean that it's not a form of assault, that it's not the basic nurturer in a child's life striking them, and causing them physical harm.
This can have immense psychological ramifications, including children being unwilling to talk to their parents, when they have certain problems, because they fear being harmed if they say the wrong thing.
It causes emotional closure, that makes it more difficult for children to interact with the world around them, which we think has very dramatic long term harms on their ability to socialize with others.
Furthermore, if one is spanked as a child, or harmed as a child, or assaulted as a child, they're more likely to repeat those actions, because children are socialized, and learn how to act as a parent, from their parents, because that's how they learn what the role of intends.
So we think that, if you don't ban spanking, you're likely to have repeated cycles of violence, in which children, that were spanked and ultimately assaulted by their parents, are more likely to pass on, and extend that behavior on to their children.
So, it's crucial for the government to intervene, especially when it's impacting very impressionable children that are likely to extend that harm in perpetuity, into the future.
Given that, parents have a special obligation to ensure that their child, their children can function in society, to ensure that their children can be fully formed adults, and that they don't grow up to be individuals that are going to cause more harm than good in the lives of others of other people around them.
Spanking fails to meet that standard, it fails to meet what parents are obliged to do by their children, and because of this, we should ban spanking.