Big governments are advantageous.
So we think that there are three reasons why in comparison to smaller government systems big governments are good.
Firstly, big governments are entities that are existing simply for the public interest but they're able to to combat large private corporations.
So recognize that is incredibly difficult for individuals or small communities to combat large corporations whether this be utility corporations, oil corporations, large multinational businesses that in a number of ways can abuse both consumers and communities.
Given that this is the case, we think that big governments because they have both the legal backing and the justification of their existence is the state, but also they have a vast amount of economic and social resources that can be levied against abusers of private power.
What this means is that when you big governance it's less it's less possible for large corporations and large entities to abuse the people within that state because there's a check that exists only for the public good.
When this is the case in comparison to small governments who have less resources and less social capital these these groups can be abused.
This is why small countries that exist are often abused by large corporations when planning infrastructure projects and things like that, because they simply don't have the capital both economically or politically to combat these abuses.
Secondly, large government means more social spending.
When you have a large government it means that it means that you are more able to draw in the resources from your from your constituents.
It means that you have the apparatus that is more able to collect taxes.
That it also means that you have the arms of the apparatus, the tools of the apparatus are more diverse which means you can do more social good.
When you have a small limited government there are less fields that you can enter because you simply don't have the manpower to do good work.
Social needs occur in a vast amount of ways whether it be public health, public safety, public transportation.
All these are things that are necessary both for the market system to survive but also for individuals to flourish, and as this is the case, we think larger governments are able to diversify more.
This means that these governments are able to provide social goods to these people on a more direct scale and it also means that you can ensure that people are able to better fulfill their desires, to have the infrastructure, the social infrastructure that is necessary to do the things that would bring them fulfillment.
It also means that you're more able to do things like have welfare spending when you have a government that is able to tax at a higher rate, when you have a government that's less restrained by the restrictions of a tax base it means that you can provide redistribution of economic of economic goods within a society and it means that the people on the ground can get those goods better, which means you have better redistribution of resources and a more fair redistribution of resources when you have big governments.
Finally, we think that you have more participation in government when you have a big government.
This is for two reasons.
First, you have greater need for employees which means that the bureaucracy of the government is larger and it means that more people are employed within that work.
We think that this is good firstly, because it provides jobs and opportunities for advancement and good pay for people that exist within the state to do honest work.
To do things that exist to help their communities.
To help the people within their society broadly but secondly, we think it gets more people engaged.
When the government is more active socially, when it's more active in the community and it's more visible, it gets more people to understand what the government does and it makes it more likely that people are going to interact with that government and have a desire to become part of the political discourse that is ongoing.
When the government is small, people are less aware of what the government is is doing and they have less interest in the discourse that surrounds it but that discourse is crucial for not only guiding how the government is going to behave, but for understanding the society that we live in, and for growing as a community, and growing as a society.
Because of these three reasons we think that big governments are advantageous.