We should legalize ivory trade.
So in this round we're gonna make two broad arguments.
The first is a little more extreme.
It's about how animals do not have rights and because of this we think that any harm that comes from ivory trade is simply not valid and the second, is about how even if you believe animals have rights, regulating the market to cut down on black market power is the better way to protect those animals rights.
So firstly, on animal rights.
We would say that rights are an essentially human construct.
That they don't come out of the universe or the ether or anything like that.
That they're created by our societies in order to protect human beings and to protect those that we feel are a part of our social fabric.
These animals are not a part of our social fabric.
They're not a part of the societies that build these rights and therefore to ascribe rights to them would only be because humans want them to have rights.
It's only because we see some sort of validity and value for ourselves in animals having rights which is why, for example, we get pet's rights because we have a we value those pets in a way in which we want them to be protected.
There are two big reasons why we don't think animals should be afforded rights.
The first is because they cannot reciprocate those rights.
One of the major ways in which rights are validated within our society is through reciprocation and that is also how rights are taken away within our society.
It's how we validate our punishment of criminals because they have violated the rights of others and did not reciprocate their obligation to uphold the rights of others.
Animals do not have this capacity and therefore should not be endowed with rights.
The second reason is they can't internalize the value of rights and therefore to give them these rights has no real value because they can't plan in the long term knowing that these rights exist.
They can't understand the intrinsic value of the protection that rights provide but even if you don't believe that animals shouldn't have any rights, we'd still say that that to allow and legalize ivory trade is better for animals.
Why is this?
In the status quo poachers and black market sellers run the ivory trade and make a massive profit off of it.
The ban of ivory trade means that the supply of ivory is suppressed dramatically, making the business more and more lucrative.
This means additionally, that the prohibition is lead to higher levels of poaching because when there's such a low supply of ivory coming in and it becomes so valuable any ivory you can get, people will take the risk of poaching even when there are laws put in place that have tremendously bad outcomes for poachers and the level of exclusivity of ivory leads to higher levels of demand as well.
Because people know you can't just get ivory anywhere, you can't just buy like you can buy a diamond, ivory becomes a status symbol and the demand for ivory goes up even though the supply is going down, again, making these prices much higher.
We think that regulating the market solves this problem.
When you open the market it drives down prices.
It means that people who already have ivory can go out and sell it freely without it being confiscated or destroyed.
It means that ivory becomes less exclusive and therefore the demand for ivory goes down and the prices go down.
There's a less lucrative business available when it goes from the black market open to the light and there's on balance less hunting.
This accomplishes the goal of the ban anyway, which is to prevent animal populations from being harmed.
Yes, this means that there's more sanction killings of these animals but there's less killing overall because the demand for ivory goes down.
The supply for ivory from outside sources from non-animals goes up because there's already ivory out there in the market that people have and people are going to be able to sell that freely on the market.
This means that in on net fewer animals are harmed when you make the ivory trade legal.
On top of all that, we would say that animals may not even deserve to have rights and given that that is the case, people should be able to trade and use ivory however they see fit but either way, whether you care about animals or not we would say that we should legalize ivory trade.