We should ban child actors.
For the purposes of the round, we're simply talking about we're going to talk about all types of performances, but we want to limit it to professionals, so we want to ensure that obviously children are still able to put on school plays, and participate in community theaters and things like, that they should be able to express themselves, but we don't think that they should be allowed to be professional actors.
We don't think that acting should be outside of existing child labor laws that already ensure that people of certain ages aren't taken out of the classroom and forced to work.
We don't think that there's any meaningful distinction between acting and other jobs, even though acting can result, obviously in the best circumstances, in higher pay, it also comes with a tremendous amount of risk to getting into the industry, and tremendous amount of abuse.
In a given that we, as a society, recognize through existing child labor laws that childhood has a particular purpose.
Childhood is meant to be an educational and formative experience on an individual.
An individual isn't supposed to be a part of the economic system, an individual isn't meant to exist to propagate a society or type of society, or to really contribute to that society.
Society is still in the process of molding the child, of creating who the child is going to be, and because of this we don't think that they should be forced, or even allowed, but often forced, into these economic systems.
That's what we're gonna focus on primarily, is that many types of abuses for child actors, starting firstly with the fact that children aren't actually able to make a choice about doing these types of things.
Children can't rationally understand whether or not acting is going to be a long term benefit to them, they can't rationally predict what the impacts of such a career are going to be.
But parents can, and parents do often push their children and his career paths.
Child performers are often driven by parents behind the scenes that want to ensure that their children are successful in life.
Given that this is the case, we think that children aren't able to meaningfully enact their agency in these circumstances, and because of that, we don't think we can allow them to be forced into the circumstances.
Secondly, these types of circles, especially places like hollywood, are are well known for their abuse of children that come into the industry, whether it be sexual abuse, or physical, or mental abuse of these children, emotional abuse, children in these landscapes, in these environments, are often abused by the adults around them and are often either taught horrendously problematic things, or experience incredibly harmful impacts on themselves.
And even if this isn't ten or fifteen, even if it's just a small percentage of cases, we don't think that we should take the risk that is associated with children entering this industry.
We think that it would be preferable to ensure that these things never happen.
We also think it removes children from classrooms and restricts their future choice.
Now, yes, of course in the best circumstances children can make lots and lots of money, and are able to live off of their acting career as a child.
But this is the vast minority of instances.
In the vast majority of instances, whT you do is have children sacrifice a quality education for a short period of acting, for some sort of progress in an acting career, that ultimately goes nowhere.
We've seen so many child actors flame out, disappear after a number of years, but you never can get back that experience in the classroom.
You can never get back those childhood years amongst your peers, learning in the classroom and getting that experience.
And yes, you can go back and get your GED, you can go back and enter those learning environments, but when you cut yourself off to those at the most formative ages as a child, we mean people are less prone to go back and get their education, and two, are already a step behind everyone else, to the point where we think it limits their choices after their acting career is over, which for most people is at a very young age when they're still going to need to work.
Given that this is a case, that acting almost entirely sets people up or children up for failure, and that children can't actually consent to this in the first place, we think that we should ban child actors.