Zoos bring more harm more good than harm.
So, we think that what we want to focus on in this debate is not whether or not zoos themselves are a good actor for environmentalism and conservatism and all those types of things, but we want to look at the comparative specifically, as what the world would look like without zoos, whether or not those that oppose the harm that may come to animals in zoos would prefer that world.
Because we think that there's clear entertainment and economic value that has come from zoos, and the vast majority of opposition is due to animal rights violations.
So we're going to break this down into two two arguments.
The first is about education, and the second is about conservation and scientific research.
So firstly on education.
We think that what's crucial for ensuring that environmentalism can be passed on into the future, is to ensure that the youth have an understanding of what there is that needs to be protected.
We think that engagement on a very close level with animals, the ability to see animals in person, to reach out to them, and in some instances to touch them, to be able to see how they behave without having to travel vast distances, which most people simply can't afford to do, we think that these close interactions with animals are an easy way to inform children and to create empathetic ties between between themselves and animals and the environments these animals are in.
We also think that the view that zoos as a fun environment allow people to be opened up to education more than they would be in a classroom.
So, people may say that you could just show videos of animals and that would teach children to understand the value of animal life, but we think that children are more willing and open to engage with these ideas and more willing to come upon them themselves, and therefore deeply believe them, when they are in zoos.
What we think this means is that zoos en masse are able to create more people that in the future have ties to animals, who want to go into conservation as a profession, environmental protection as a profession, and we can then more people to even when they don't have these very strong ties to animals, we think that if people are exposed to zoos and things like this at a young age, they at the very least are more likely to be environmentally conscious than otherwise possible, because the comparative is a world in which people don't have connections with these animals.
They may see these animals on the computer, they may understand that these animals exist elsewhere, but this is this case with humans as well as animals, when you don't have a deep and direct attachment, you're less likely to be able to empathize with the harms that it hurts them, and so when you hear about the plight of animals in decaying environments, you're not able to directly understand what that means, even if you logically can, you can't emotionally understand it, and therefore people are less likely to act in a world with less contact with animals, which we think is the alternative.
So, why do we think that's the alternative?
This brings us to the conservation argument.
We think that zoos are a much more are an easy way to get conservation of animals and endangered species, because it creates a financial incentive to do so.
While there may be wildlife refuges and different types of conservation practices that ensure that animals can stay in their natural environments, these are incredibly costly and come with very little financial incentive, because there is very little money that can be made off of entirely preserving the wildlife habitat, in which humans can't simply walk through en masse like they can at zoo, you simply can't get as much people through the door to see these things, or often they can't see these things at all.
This means that we think the alternative to a world with zoos is one with there is much less conservation work being done, there are much fewer animals and endangered species that are able to be protected, we think that that would be a detriment to scientific research and we think that the scientific research being done in zoos is in and of itself also a good thing.
Even though that these scientists aren't able to observe these animals in their natural habitat, they're able to do research on the things like their genetics, which allow you to do their genetics and their biology, which allows you to have an understanding of things that can impact everything from medicine to evolutionary biology, and an understanding of our own genetic code.
We think that given that the alternative world is likely one in which there's less conservation and less animal protection and less of a desire for those things, we think that zoos, on balance, bring more good than harm.