We should legalize prostitution.
So I want to first start out by recognizing the problem that exists in the status quo which is that in the status quo, the ban on prostitution is massively ineffective.
It leads to the criminalization of marginalized communities above all else, and it means that when women or men enter the field of prostitution largely because of factors outside of their control because of economic restraints placed on them that force them to go into these markets, they're punished.
Rather than even if you believe that this is a moral issue prostitutes are punished rather than johns and pimps, the people that cause massive abuses which will talk about later.
So two reasons why we think we should legalize prostitution.
The first is that the law is unjust and the second is that the abuses of the status quo outweigh any sort of moral claims that are made in favor of the law.
So why is the law unjust?
Recognize that prostitution isn't some new fangled invention of modern times.
It's not some new part of humanity.
It's one of the oldest jobs, one of the oldest professions in the world.
It's something that is a basic core of our humanity and whether we like it or not, the sexuality of humanity, our desire to have this companionship, to have the sexual intimacy with other people even if it comes at a price is something that is a part of our nature and is not something that we can simply ignore by legislating against it.
We also think that there are no clear external harms of prostitution.
What we mean by this is that when two adults consent into a contract that leads to them having sex, as is the case in prostitution, there's no harm on outside or third parties that is created by this interaction.
It means that there are two adults that recognize what they're consenting into, that it fully consented into doing this and just because there's a monetary interaction it doesn't mean that there's any sort of new harm being created in the same way that when any two people choose to have consensual intercourse there's no third party harm created in that.
The only difference is an exchange of money and we don't think that this exchange of money is something that justifies making such an action illegal.
We also think that the right to bodily autonomy must be absolute.
We think that if people are not able to have absolute control over how they use their body in what they use or what they do with their body we can that fundamentally undermines the freedom that the government exists to protect and in doing so this law undermines the entire purpose of the government.
We think that if you want to keep it out of sight you can regulate prostitution.
You can regulate it in the way that you can regulate other markets so that any sort of moral qualms you have with it aren't spread outside to the public but this doesn't mean you have to ban it altogether and it doesn't mean you have to criminalize it in the way it's done in the status quo which caused the abuses that I'm going to talk about now.
In the status quo there's no way for prostitutes to protect against the abuses of pimps, johns, and we think they deserve this protection as citizens.
Prostitutes can be horribly abused by their pimps.
They can be abused by johns and they can johns can refuse payment to them, they can do things like give them STD's without any sort of recourse.
We think that just because these people choose to enter into a profession that something is morally questionable doesn't mean that these people don't deserve the protections of any other citizen and any other person that is currently being employed.
We also think that women have been historically stripped of their autonomy.
That the patriarchal society that we live in is one that restricts women's ability to do what they want with their bodies and with their lives.
We think that should end.
We think that in our current society, if women choose to enter the field of prostitution, if women choose to do this and if two consenting adults choose to enter into a contract in which there is an exchange of goods in this way, we don't think there's any harm to society at large.
We don't think there's any justification for the government restricting these types of things and for these reasons, we should legalize prostitution.