Recall elections are not beneficial.
On side opposition, we believe that the job of governance is difficult, and that it's a long term process, that requires immense amounts of specialized knowledge in order to be carried out effectively.
For this reason, we think that direct democracy, and by extension recall elections, are not beneficial.
So, we're going to explain why these two things can be construed, and why these are on balance not effective and not useful for society.
So, firstly we think that this is similar to direct democracy, because rather than a traditional vote, in which you decide who is going to be effecting government, who is going to be in the role of effecting government, a recall election is essentially a censure on what is being done within the government.
It's a premature censure, in the fact that it is being done prior to the agreed upon date between a constituent and their representative, as to when this person would have, and when this person, a timeline that they could expect to carry out the progress they want to see done in office.
Because it's premature, we think it is inherently not a vote on who should be effectuating government, but is rather a reprimand on what government is doing.
So, why do we think that direct democracy in this sense is problematic?
Firstly, people lack information.
People simply don't have the extent of information that officials do in government, that can have private and classified information at their at their availability, that have government departments, that are able to gather more information than the average individual is able to do through things like media, they're able to get an understanding of many aspects that are involved in solving a particular problem, and are better at doing a better job of aggregating all of those particular interests, than the average person, or the average constituency, is able to do on mass.
So, because of this we think that individuals are generally very bad at choosing things for themselves, in a particular manner, if not in a broad manner.
Secondly, we think that politicking in governing is a long term process, and we think that, amongst this long term process, difficult things need to be done, unpopular things need to be done.
For example, if you're a person, if you're a local representative in a city council or city government, and your town is going, has a massive budget problem, you have to cut fifty, sixty percent of your budget, you may even have to close the government for a short period of time, these are difficult choices that need to be made, that have real impacts on employment, on the goods and services, that are able to be done for a town and for a constituency, and are able to effect real lives and these are unpopular decisions to make, because if you continue to spend money in the long run, you're likely to face bankruptcy, or some sort of much worse issue, but in the short run, you could dramatically upset your constituents.
We think that when this decision is made, with the threat of recall elections, people are much less likely to make the responsible decision of cutting the short term services, and the short term spending, in order to make the long term beneficial decision of fiscal responsibility, and balance, and things that may not be attractive to the voter, but are simply necessary for running the city that you're part of.
We think that recall elections, distort this time line, and make this decision much more difficult.
Because yes, these are problems that a politician could face at the end of their term, and have to make at the end of their term, with an election coming up anyway, but we think the fact that, any time you could be recalled by your constituents, that at anytime if you make an unpopular decision, or decisions that the people don't fully understand, you could be at risk of losing your job, I think it poses a massive risk to the ability of the government to fulfill its duties, and to make the hard decisions that the government is charged with making, with being able to balance the desires of the constituency, with the needs of the constituency, that people oftentimes don't want to recognize, and difficult situations like like making budget cuts, and choosing where funding is going to go, all these types of things.
Given that this is the case, we think that people should not interfere in the means and the way that recall elections allow them to do, and that on balance, recall elections are not beneficial.