Bullfighting should not be banned.
What is important to recognize about bullfighting at the very beginning of this debate is that it has been a cultural institution within the communities that practice it, such as spain, portugal, and parts of southern france, for hundreds of years.
Bullfighting is tied in with the cultural identity of these regions in a deep way.
It has been part of festivals and celebrations of triumphs and of the history of these people and the culture of these people for hundreds of years.
And because of that we think it needs to be weighed that culture needs to be weighed incredibly importantly.
So, that's what we're going to talk about first.
Why culture is so important and secondly we're going to explain why animals don't need don't necessarily have rights and because of this you should weigh the cultural value over the harm that may be coming to animals.
So why is culture so important?
Culture is the means by which individuals come to understand and learn about themselves.
You relate to yourself, to your ancestors and to your family, to your neighbors through your culture.
In cultures the means by which you also able to express yourself.
We think if you rid individuals of their cultural background and their cultural belong, if you rid them of traits of that culture, then it becomes impossible for people to have an understanding of themselves in an existential way.
We also think that this practice in particular is a tie to the history of these cultures.
This is a unique part of the culture that has been constant throughout the history of these regions.
Even though there's been political turmoil, there has been war and fighting and things of this nature, people have been able to have this cultural practice for a long period of time.
And in this way it connects them to times gone by, to family they've lost, relatives, to communities that they are a part of now and provides a sense of continuity to those communities.
As such we don't think that this particular part of their culture, this particular part of spanish and portuguese culture should be discarded.
We also think that it allows communities to come together.
While it may be brutal or violent to some sensibilities outside of spain, this is simply because of the constructs that exist within our particular locales.
Within spain, this isn't a brutal practice in the in the same way that it would be to people that are unfamiliar to this because we lack the cultural education that these people in these regions have.
These practices allow the community to come together.
It allows them to participate in something that is inherently social and we think that that is a valuable means of self actualization.
So secondly, why do animals not have rights?
Rights as they exist are simply a construct of human creation.
Rights, if they do exist in an ethereal sense are not something that we can come to understand.
Rather rights exist in order to ensure protections for people.
To ensure that there are certain things that are never taken away from individuals.
Freedoms and liberties that people always have that are held sacred.
Animals, as they are not part of our society, as they are not part of that political discourse, do not participate in the construction of those rights.
And while we may provide these rights to animals on certain occasions because we can see their pain, for instance, and this may provide us with this utility, the rights of animals do not exist in the ethereal sense, and do not exist within our social constructs unless we've created them in that way.
Given that in these rate in these regions, the culture has existed and the morality has come to exist in a way that has excluded this as something that is immoral, it is unfair to say that these things are inherently problematic.
Given that these cultures themselves do not find these things to be immoral, that animals in an ethereal sense the bulls in the ethereal sense don't have these types of rights claims, and that this is such a deep cultural practice, we believe that bullfighting should not be banned.