We should not ban boxing.
We think that there are two main arguments that we're going to make in this debate about why we shouldn't ban boxing.
The first is about libertarianism and about how you need to have a justification for a ban that this simply does not meet and the second argument is about how there are real big benefits to boxing and why we believe you should just let people make the choice under their own free will to take this action.
So firstly on the justification for a ban we would say that by its nature the state is unjust and coercive and the reason for this is that people don't have a meaningful ability to consent into the state that they live in nor do they have a meaningful ability to consent to which laws they're going to have to abide by.
The way that the state becomes just then is by trying to maximize freedom that freedom is the value by which the state becomes just and that to restrict freedom which is in essence what a ban does you need to have good cause in order to do that.
There needs to be some sort of reason in order to have a ban in order to restrict freedom that outweighs the costs of doing so that outweighs the cost of freedom and so what we would say is that generally bans need to ensure that more freedom can be maximized in the long run.
Banning certain behaviors banning certain industries these types of things are done in order to ensure the most freedom for people in the long run.
So what are these things doing generally.
So firstly there may be some major public harm that is caused by an activity and you can ban it for that reason.
This isn't the case with boxing.
There are thousands and millions of people boxing we're not losing members of the workforce to traumatic head injuries.
Were not losing able bodied people because boxing is a craze has taken over our society.
Were not causing any sort of real public harm by having boxing or by having it as an institution.
Some people say that it makes the masses more violent but we think that this is something that is on balance pretty negligible when you consider the amount of violence that exists in our media generally and we think that this isn't a more this isn't a direct enough harm to justify a ban.
The other time when you can have a ban is when there's some sort of asymmetry of information when people who are already bad decision makers don't have enough information to make rational and reasoned decisions.
But this is not the case for boxing.
People know that boxing can lead to head trauma.
People know that boxing can lead to long term risks to their health.
Regulation makes it possible to preserve the essence of the sport without nearly as much carnage and still allows the state to maximize freedom and protect its citizenry.
So we think regulation is simply better in this instance than a ban.
So what are some benefits to boxing that people could rationally choose to to try and obtain by doing it even with the risks of head trauma.
Well there's immense amounts of money that can be won by boxing.
This is something that if you get good enough at this sport can really propel you and allow you to have a long bountiful career in which you set up success for yourself and your family in the future.
It's also a form as just a basic practice as something that people can do to let out aggression and a healthy way against other people that want to let out aggression rather than taking it out on those that are close to you in violent ways that lend lend themselves to criminal activity and also actual harms on to innocence.
It's also a meaning of it's a means of athletics it's a way to train your body to get into good shape.
And finally it's a historic sport that has a long legacy that people want to be a part of.
All these things are things that rational actors could choose to value over the potential of head injury or physical trauma.
We should let adults way cost benefit and make that decision for themselves.
This is not the job of the government.
And for those reasons we should not ban boxing.