We should legalize the growing of coca leaf.
So to be clear in this debate when we legalize the growing of coca leaf, we think what is necessarily going to arise is that more production of cocaine, both crack and powder cocaine, is going to occur and honestly we're just going to say we're going to legalize that as well.
We're gonna legalize the ownership, distribution, use, all these types of things, sale of coca leaf, and the products that come from coca leaf.
So now that that's clear, we have two main arguments.
The first is that the war on drugs is bad and the second is that legalizing coca leaf will lead to an economic boom which is simply worth the risk.
Okay, recognizing the status quo that the war on drugs is simply unjust.
What the war on drugs dictates is that individuals are not allowed to use with their body whatever they see fit.
That means that people are not able to use their bodily autonomy in ways that only only impact their own bodily autonomy, and recognize that you can prohibit the use of you can prohibit people doing things under the influence of drugs, for example, if you're concerned that the use of cocaine will lead to people having impaired driving well then you can prohibit people being able to drive while impaired on coca leaf.
This is what we do with this is what we do with alcohol in the status quo.
We don't see why you can't do it here.
We think that fundamentally a government that restricts the ability for people to do things when what they do has no impact on external sources, has no impact on the society around them, that is fundamentally unjust and coercive in a way that the government needs to rectify.
Moreover, recognize that the criminalization of coca leaf in the status quo is massively discriminatory.
Firstly, where coca leaf is grown is in areas of massive poverty and we think that if coca leaf was allowed to be produced these areas are likely going to be the ones that get a massive economic benefit and it means that even though these people don't live in the united states or in developed nations, these people could get huge economic booms that are simply worthwhile or that could change their life forever.
We also think that we've seen that this band is massively ineffective and that even with a ban on coca leaf people are still using it at a high rate.
It only means that the money that is being drawn from the use of crack and powder cocaine goes to cartels rather than to businesses that can be taxed, which I'll talk about in a second, but clearly we think that when you put money into the cartels all you're going to see is increased violence which leads to de-stability not just in local areas like northern mexico in which cartels have in large part blacked out the government and have taken over control of these regions, but also on a global scale.
When drug violence is at a high and drugs are able to pervade countries without any sort of government oversight.
So we think that what happened in the status quo is that you have a war on drugs that has failed in every sense.
It's also massively discriminatory as shown by the the discrepancy between sentencing for crack and powder cocaine even though crack cocaine and powder cocaine are the exact same chemical substance simply a discrepancy in use between black and white people.
Okay given that the war on drugs has failed and is fundamentally unjust, we think you should focus on the economic boom that comes from it.
Recognize that when you shift that when you legalize coca it allows for legitimate businesses to open up and to run and sell this product.
This leads to a couple of things.
First, it means that these things are just much safer for users because you know that your cocaine isn't being cut with other things that can be much more harmful to you like heroin or other types of drugs and it means that you can tax these businesses which means even if you are amongst the group that believes that people should never be allowed to use cocaine, that having cocaine is a sin and is something that people need to be fundamentally restricted from being able to do, even though it doesn't impact anyone but themselves, we think that what we've seen is that prohibition is an ineffective measure for prevention, but what actually works for prevention is education.
Cocaine we recognize has some negative health effects, can lead to overdose, can lead to death, and can lead to addiction and these things need to be educated into people.
We think though you get better education when you have tax revenue from legitimate sources that you can direct this education rather than funneling millions of dollars into drug prevention and drug arrests and these types of activities.
We don't think that prohibition has worked.
We don't think it'll work in the future and we think that the economic boom that comes with legalizing coca leaf will be more effective in stopping people from using cocaine than prohibition has ever been in the past.
For these reasons we should legalize the growing of coca leaf.