Sex education should be mandatory.
When we're talking about sex education, we want to be quite clear.
When we say sex education, we mean comprehensive sex education, sex education that teaches about both STDs and the different types of contraception that are available to individuals, how to use these types of contraception.
We think it would be a broad type of course taught early in high school, probably for an entire year, and we think that the curriculum itself, as far as specifics, could be set by a panel of doctors and other experts in the field, rather than being set by politicians, we think it should be set by individuals that are most informed, a combination of education and health experts that could work together in forming the curriculum that is most likely to reduce the the amount of unwanted teenage pregnancies and the amount of STDs.
Okay.
So why do we think that there is a responsibility for the government to educate, specifically when it comes to sex education.
Well, firstly, there's a recognized responsibility from the government to educate its populace in all other aspects.
So, almost every developed every developed nation, almost every nation, has some form of public education.
Because it's recognized that in order to have a functioning society, you need to have a well-educated populace, and that parents simply are not equipped, both because they simply don't have the time to teach their their their youth, their children, the that the wide array of things that people need to be able to know in order to function in society, and because they themselves are not personally equipped, are not experts, do not have the capabilities of educating young people.
We don't think that sex is any different.
While sex is something that is incredibly personal, the ability to do your accounting, to understand your finances, to be physically fit, these are things that are also incredibly personal, yet we say the state has a responsibility to ensure that these things are taught amongst young people.
We also think that parents are not qualified in teaching sex education.
While many people may think it is the responsibility of parents to sit down with their children and, quote unquote, have the talk, we think that it's clearly the case that parents, in many respects, do not have the knowledge of how contraceptives are used.
They don't have the knowledge about how STDs work and how they spread, or how to understand that you may have one or to be able to recognize these things, and they don't know about the advances in contraceptive, the most advanced scientific understanding of these things.
Given that this is the case, sex is something sex and sex education is biological, it's something that can be understood through science, through education.
Just because it is something that is personal, doesn't mean that it's not something that can be broken down and given education to people.
So, we also think that sex is crucial for personal development and well-being, more so than many other subjects that are taught in school, and there are huge risks that are associated with not having sex education.
In places in the united states in which sex education is not provided, or abstinence-only sex education is provided, these are the areas that have the highest rates of STDs and the highest rates of unwanted pregnancy.
And what it shows is that regardless of whether or not the government decides to step in and decides to educate people about sex, people are going to choose to have sex.
Young people are going to want to explore their sexuality and are going to want to do these types of things.
The only difference, and what this debate is really about, is whether we want children, whether we want young people getting their information from less reputable sources, getting it from older siblings or from parents who simply don't have the scientific knowledge, or worse yet, getting it from places like pornography or the internet, in which anything can be put out, mostly things that are false, things that simply aren't proper representations of sex, sexuality and contraceptive usage.
We think that given that the alternative to having comprehensive sex education is people continuing to have sex, but having less safe sex which creates immense harms not only on them as individuals but also on society.
When we are forced to bear the burden of their health cost, forced to bear the burden of unwanted children in our orphanages and through our welfare systems, these are things that clearly have immense social impacts.
We think that sex is crucial to someone's personal development, and not being given a proper sex education is a risk that the government should not be willing to take, it's not something that should be acceptable in our society.
And for these reasons, sex education should be mandatory.