We should not ban beauty contests.
In this round, we're gonna specifically be talking about adult beauty pageants, so we think that the debate that exists around whether or not children should be able to participate is related, but to distinct in certain degrees, and so we're going to focus primarily on whether adults should be able to participate in beauty contests.
So we're gonna focus on two things.
Were going to start by talking about objectification, and why opponents of beauty contests, their anger is misplaced in talking about the objectification that exists within beauty contests.
So we acknowledge, at the very top, that beauty contests in many ways objectify women, but we say that they're a larger part of a of a system in which women are objectified within our patriarchal societies, particularly in western countries.
We think that in many ways, women are objectified through the media, in how men are taught to perceive women, how their agency is perceived, and within the legal system, and within the economic sphere.
There's many ways in which women are objectified, in which their full agency isn't given to them, so with that in mind, we think that given that this is just a symptom of that system, we think compared to other possible outcomes, this is one of those systems in which women are at least able to express their agency.
So what we mean by this is while this clearly does to some degree objectify women, we think that this needs to be weighed against the fact that women use their agency to make this decision about whether or not they're going to participate in beauty contests, and we think that beauty contests can have positive impacts for the women that choose to participate in them.
For example, beauty contestant winners are able to make money and get some sort of a platform from the contest that they win, whether it's a large platform, or small platform, depends obviously on the size, but we think that women are able to use their success in these contests to further propagate themselves, whether it be in the business world or in whatever other interests they may have, and we think that's a positive thing for women to be able to do and to be able to take hold of their own empowerment through things.
Additionally, we think that people can just be individually empowered by beauty contests.
While beauty is only one metric of judging a human being, it's not invalid for someone to be empowered by their beauty and to want to express that through these type of contests, while like it might be something that we wouldn't want people to validate themselves through, it's not entirely bad that people choose to do this if it's something that is able to empower themselves.
And if women can be empowered by this system, if they can take control of the system that exists and empower themselves through it, we think that's a positive thing.
The second thing we're going to talk about is freedom for women.
We think oftentimes, when solutions are posed to particularly to issues that are identified with feminism, and to women's issues specifically, we think that what's often left out of the debate is the fact that many women are have their choices restricted by the decisions we make.
So what this means is that it seems hypocritical to say that we want to help women by banning these beauty contests, we want to help society by changing standards of beauty, by restricting the choice that women are able to make.
We think that the way that women are oppressed is ultimately one in that their choic is restricted, in which their agency restricted, that's the larger social problem.
And we think that banning something like a beauty contest in which women, as adult women who have the ability to make decisions on equal like in equal capacity to anyone else, we think it's unfair that you restrict that choice in trying to find solutions to issues and solutions to a patriarchal system.
We think it's lazy to address the symptoms ratherthan the core problem of the social issues that exist, and that choosing to choosing to deal with those issues through restriction of women is putting the harm and the blame on those people that are most oppressed, and for that reason, we believe we should not ban beauty contests.