Goal line technology brings more harm than good.
We think that, well, we're going to start by, we're going to start by recognizing, in this debate, what sports are, which is that sports is a combination of entertainment and business.
It is the dual job of promoting itself, of entertaining the people that watch it, and of insuring that it's profitable for the people that produce it, players, the coaches, the owners, et cetera.
So, why do we think that goal line technology is bad?
We have two reasons: the first is that it makes people lose faith in officiating and refereeing, which we think is very important, and second, it slows the game down and ultimately harms the entertainment.
So, let's recognize that the refs serve a crucial function in soccer and football today.
Refs ensure a few things: first, they ensure the fairness of the game that's being carried out.
The fairness is crucial to the narrative that's being done, because it means that the narrative is truthful, it's fact.
People can believe in it, and they they can refer back to it for a conversation, for community building, for discussion, all these things that make the entertainment of sports so palatable, the community that it builds.
Without the fairness of the sport, people can't attach to it, they can't understand the narrative in the same way, they can't connect to the people and live the experiences of the athletes that are participating in the sport, which is why refs are crucial.
So they ensure fairness.
Secondly, they ensure correctness.
So, what refs exist to do is to ensure that, not only is the competition between two parties and two, in this case football teams, fair, but it's also that when these two parties play, what occurs is actually what happened.
That the that the ruling and the judgment and the final score is accurate, that it reflects what the game was meant to reflect.
So, what we think you do when you install goal line technology, is that you dilute the faith that exists in refereeing.
And it's not because people can't see for themselves, and replay whether or not refs are making the right call, we think that people will understand this at the end of the day either way, but it sends a signal from fifa, and from other organizations that run soccer, that there is a problem that exists, that there is such perpetual incorrectness amongst the refs, that the refs are not good enough at doing their jobs, that we need to institute this entirely new system into our sport.
When you do that, we think it begins the process questioning the history of the sport, which dilutes the foundation that makes the sport so popular.
It means that when refs make call in game, they're more likely to be scrutinized, by both players and fans, and people are more likely going to be turned off from the sport, if they can't trust the history of the officiating, or the present officiating in the sport.
So secondly, we think that the problem is that this will slow the game down.
We think that, in modern times, while it's very quick to review one video, and to look at it for five minutes, over the course of the entire soccer match this adds up to immense amount of time, or even to a negligible amount of time of five ten minutes per game, but when a match itself is only ninety minutes, this is a fairly substantial increase.
We think when you take time out of the game, you interrupt the rhythm of the sport, and the people's ability to really delve into the sport, to embrace what's going on in the field and to just dive into it.
When you do that, we think that you're more likely, especially with a new generation that's grown up with hundreds of alternatives, with an internet full of alternatives, to the entertainment that they're viewing in your one sport, on your one moment, we think that you need to ensure for the future, that people are able to stay in the rhythm of the sport, and when constant interruptions going to happen, when people review a play, or you need to have refs go review and use goal line technology to review a score, or if the ball was out or not, we think, in that instance, you're only going to slow down the game, and in the future, turn people off from soccer.
So the combination of the doubt in refereeing, that's instilled with this technology, and the fact that it poses a risk to people's ability to enjoy and to the growth of soccer in the future, we think that goal line technology ultimately brings more harm than good.