We should not privatize water supply.
So in this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why it would be problematic to privatize the water supply, the first is about the right to water and the second is about why private companies lead to worse quality water and worse quality access to water.
First on the right to water.
We would say that there obviously should be a right to water.
If anything, water is one of the most basic necessities and one of the most essential parts of human existence and of human life.
We don't think that there should be barriers to access something that is quite simply a necessary part of one's existence.
Given that that's the case, if we acknowledge that there are rights to life, if we acknowledge that there are any rights at all within our society which we say we do with in most societies, then there obviously should be a right to water.
We think that privatizing undermines that right in a few ways.
First it allows a small group to profit off of a collective resource.
Recognize that water is a natural resource that no one by by like nature has any more of a claim to than anyone else.
No one has more of a claim to access that right than anyone else, and no one is responsible for the creation of that water no input in the labor to make that water accessible and given that that's the case we think it is just fundamentally wrong that someone should be able to make money off of something that is a right and is a collective good that all people should be able to have access to.
The second problem is that access can be denied by owners.
So why we think it would be rare?
The instances would be incredibly rare that someone is actually denied water.
The fact that because because privatization of water leads to someone owning the water supply, we think that it could be the case that water could be denied to any one individual or any group of people for any number of problematic reasons, and given that this is the case we think that there is an obvious risk to access that right.
And finally this introduces barriers to access like cost and what we think is likely to be the case is a tiered rights access system in which those that are willing to pay more money, that are capable of paying more money, are going to get higher quality water and that those that are left behind will get lower quality water and less less access to water on a regular basis.
So now let's talk about why private companies are necessarily going to lead to worse quality.
We think that there is a massive incentive to cuss cost to cut costs wherever possible as a company in order to earn state contracts.
When the state is choosing which companies are going to be able to gain these water supply gain the water supply and be able to provide water to any to any municipality we think that what those municipalities are going to be looking at are what companies can do this for the lowest price.
We think this leads to three problematic out outcomes.
First we think less frequent testing is likely to take place because testing is a major source of cost for these for these companies.
Second, less frequent cleaning again because of these costs and finally we think that they're just going to be from those two bad health impacts and we can see that this happens even with publicly owned water supplies in flink in flint michigan and in other impoverished areas.
But the comparative problem when it comes to private companies is there are much fewer checks for those private companies because because we think they're likely to be monopolistic.
The reason for this is that there are just few water sources for any one given area and so if you happen to live in an area with a bad water supplier that has a monopolistic control over the water supply in that area and they provide unclean water, there's really no recourse that you have except for potentially a civil suit that would cost money that most people that are in these areas that would have a tiered access to tiered access to water that puts them in the lower tier those people aren't going to have the money to fight these companies in civil suits where as all people have the political check of throwing people out of office, voting for new representatives that are going to provide cleaner water, and this has no cost to the consumer, no cost to the individual.
Simply put, we think that privatizing water supply undermines the ability for people to access one of the most necessary rights that a human being can have.
We think that this is unjust, and for these reasons we should not privatize the water supply.