We should adopt libertarianism.
So this is a fairly broad model, but we think that first, we're going to explain why exactly we think we should adopt libertarianism and then we're going to explain what that would look like.
So the first thing that's important to recognize is that no one is able to fully consent into the society that they're born into, nor even if they move are they fully able to consent to the society they choose to move into.
The reason for this is that there's no more nebulous area in which people can live outside of government control.
There's no area in which an individual may exist in a full state of freedom.
However, we think that when people are best able to self-actualize and best able to fulfill the things that make them happy, which we think is the ultimate point of human existence is to maximize the utility that one has and to maximize the enjoyment out that they can get out of their short period of time on earth.
So we think that the best way that people are able to do that is to live a life that maximizes their freedom.
The reason for this is that people and agents have a better understanding of what is going to grant them utility, the nebulous government bodies that don't directly interact with them.
So while governments may set standards as to what is safe and what is good and what is bad, people should be the ultimate arbiters of what their life is going to mean.
In large part liberal societies when they regulate individuals, regulate individuals in such a way that it tries to maximize their lifespan and there's this kind of tacit belief that life and longevity of life is ultimately worthwhile but we would contest this.
We would say that life isn't worth living simply because you're alive, simply because you're conscious, but life is worth living because of the experiences you have and given the governments can't dictate or can't properly dictate what experiences I can live that are going to lead to me having the best life, we believe that it is essential that people are given the maximum amount of freedom and libertarianism is a system that allows for people to maximize their freedom.
So what do we think this libertarian system is going to look like?
We would structure laws so that they only exist to maximize personal freedom.
This means people would be given full bodily autonomy over their own actions, a right to personal property, and a right to ownership over what they've earned through their own individual actions, and the reason for this is that we think that full bodily autonomy, the ability to choose essentially what I'm going to do with my body and what I'm going to do with my property is the most basic type of freedom that an individual can have.
When people are able to choose what they're going to put into their body, what they're going to do to their body, how they're going to alter it, and how they're going to use it, this is the most essential expression of freedom and therefore laws should abide by that essential expression of freedom.
We would also only create government structures to maximize freedom.
So we recognize that freedom in an ethereal sense can't be attained without certain structures being met in the first place.
What this means is that you need some sort of requisite training to enter the free market.
So we would provide things like educational systems to ensure that all people can correct for the lottery of birth.
We recognize that lottery of birth is unfair and in many instances restraints freedom in that if we're going to adopt a system of libertarianism, we need to ensure that people can have an equal starting point.
So what we would ensure is that government structures exist to allow for this equal starting point to try and equalize levels of education across the population to equalize levels of health and opportunity amongst those that are youngest, that are most vulnerable, and are most dictated by where they were born in life rather than their own free agency and what they freely chosen to do and after a certain point we would remove the structures that prevent people from acting in certain ways.
The laws that we would have would be ones that only prohibit you from interfering in other people's bodily autonomy and we think these are the laws that make the most common sense.
Laws against stealing other people's property, laws against murder and harming another individual's body, these are the things that when people think of government, when they think of law enforcement and criminal justice, these are the things that people want to prevent and we think that through creating a state of libertarianism, people will be in a state that they are most comfortable with, one in which they are most able to actualize the things that they want to achieve and also one in which the laws are most common sense and most abide by what the people themselves want because libertarianism allows for more freedom and freedom ultimately allows for more utility, we believe that we should adopt libertarianism.