We should not legalize cell phone use while driving.
So, we're gonna make a couple of arguments in this in this round, in this speech, that we think are incredibly intuitive, but just because they're intuitive doesn't mean that they're not true, and doesn't mean that they don't have value.
So, the first argument is very straight forward, but it's also crucial, and it's that allowing people to use phones while driving is simply incredibly dangerous.
This is backed up by the statistics of how you're more likely to be an accident if you're distracted by texting, or by calling, or by using your phone, than you are, if you're otherwise paying attention to the road.
That, the the largest cause for accidents in america, and in most of the developed world, is human error, and that, if you're legally allowed to use your cell phone, we think it's more likely that people will be distracted when they're driving.
We recognize that people in the status quo use their cell phone while driving sometimes, and that they don't get into accidents sometimes, and that's fine, but we think, that if you make this if you make this practice legal, more and more people are going to be using their cell phones, while they drive, which means more and more distracted drivers are going to be on the road.
You lose the deterrent power that exists in the status quo, when you have this prohibition.
What this means is that you're more likely to have a loss of human life, there's already an incredibly high rate of accidents caused by human error, and we think that the government has an obligation to protect its citizens.
So, we want to do some weighing at the moment.
Recognize, that even if you are not likely to have an accident, when you're using your cellphone, the fact that you are more likely to have an accident, and the fact that these accidents can have tremendously harmful results, you can take the life of another human being, because you're being distracted while driving.
Given that these the possible end results are so dramatically bad, we don't think there is something that would necessitate you using your phone, that is of equal weight.
So, we don't think that needing to respond to a friend to tell them you're on your way, or to be able to call someone to tell them to make plans with them, we don't think that any of these things are as weighty or as important as even the small chance, that you take a human life from another human being.
And given that this is the case, we think that the government has a clear obligation to protect its citizens, and to try and set up the safest driving conditions possible.
And the second thing we want to talk about is the alternative.
So, even if you think that it's incredibly important, that someone be able to text the friend or something, when they're driving, we think that there are many alternatives.
Firstly, there are hundreds of areas in the united states, in which there are texting zone.
So, areas where you can pull over on the side of the road, and respond to a text, respond to a call, you can make those things more prevalent, and that means that there's no excuse for you driving and texting, and doing these things, because you can just drive a few more miles and pull over at a texting zone.
We think this is a much safer way of moving forward, than allowing people to use their cell phones while driving.
We also think that there's many ways that you can use your phone, in a hands free way.
So, using bluetooth, or using other types of technology, that allow you to answer a phone call without taking your eyes off the road, without taking your hands off the wheel, we think that those are ways in which you can communicate with people when it's an absolute necessity, without having to use your phone while driving.
And finally, we think it's important to recognize, that the way that the way that the auto field is moving is towards one, in which self driving cars are becoming the norm.
So, we think it's a bit hasty to legalize cell phone use while driving, because in ten years, we think that self driving self driving cars are going to become fairly common, not just in the united states, but throughout the developed world, and what we think this means is that there's no reason to rush into this type of legalization, because in a few years, people will be able to use their cellphones would while driving, without making a significant increase in the chance that they'll cause an accident.
Given that we can wait a few years, and that there are alternatives, a variety of alternatives, and that the weight of using your cell phone just isn't that of the potential of losing another human life, we think it's clear we should not legalize cell phone use while driving.