We should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments.
The first is that such a ban would be an unjust ban, given the government apparatus, and secondly we're gonna say that parental supervision solves in the status quo.
So, first, why do we think that this ban would be an unjust ban?
Let's talk about the state more broadly.
In the status quo, people are not able to fully consent to the state that they're into, even though that state has a large coercive apparatus that is able to, unchecked, be able to dictate what I am able to do in my life, without any sort of meaningful opt-out for me, except for going to a different state that's going to do the exact same thing, that's going to be able to coerce me in the exact same ways.
While people say that there's things that serve as a proxy for consent, like voting and like serving on a jury, these are things that are, again, not a meaningful proxy for consent.
Cause if I'm confined in the state, I might as well vote to ensure I get better outcomes, but it doesn't mean I consent to the state apparatus.
And serving on a jury or in the army, that's something like conscription.
Again, that is entirely forced.
So, in order for the state to be just to begin with, we think that the state needs to find some sort of foundational principle that serves as a proxy, a real proxy for consent.
So, why do you think people would consent in to the state even though they aren't able to do so now?
Well, we think that in the state of nature, people may have an infinite amount of freedoms.
I can do anything I want in the state of nature, but that also means that there's no protections for those freedom.
So, if someone comes along and wants to steal from me and wants to harm me, I can only defend myself, but there's no apparatus that is going to do that for me, and that means everyone's freedoms are essentially hanging by a thread.
So, we think that what the state ultimately exists for is to maximize freedom and because of that, we think that a ban runs exactly contradictory to freedom.
So, in order for that ban to be justified, we think you need to to meet a few criteria.
First, there needs to be some sort of direct third-party harm, which is why we ban things like murder and assault.
But again, that's clearly not the case here with piercings and tattoos for minors.
There's no sort of harm that is going to be accrued upon me because someone I know, who is a minor, goes out and decides to get a tattoo.
Additionally, there could be some sort of asymmetry of information that exists, but that clearly isn't the case in this instance either.
If I'm going for a piercing or a tattoo as a minor, I know these things are largely permanent.
I know that many people around me are probably telling me I'm not going I'm going to regret this decision, so there's no asymmetry of information.
Maybe people are making decisions we don't agree with, but it's not the government's job to decide what the right decision is for me.
And finally, there could be some sort of large public harm but again, I just don't see that being the case with piercings and tattoos.
So why do we think parental supervision solves in the status quo?
Because recognize that, in most instances, if you want to get a tattoo or a piercing, as a minor, you need some sort of parental consent.
Well, parents know their children best and they have their children's best interest in mind, because that child is the product of their own upbringing, is the product of what their parents put into them and because of that, we think parents are directly emotionally, fiscally and physically invested in that child.
But it also means that parents are unlikely going to let children go out and make these truly horrendous decisions for themselves.
If I'm going to get a tattoo of something vulgar on my forehead, as a minor, we think my my parents are going to stop me.
They're not going to let that happen.
And, even if those checks don't work, recognize that these things really aren't permanent.
You can get tattoos removed.
You can take a piercing out and the hole will heal.
These are not things that are going to have long-term implications on children, and if they do, we think parents are going to check for this and parents should ultimately have the final say.
For these reasons, we should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.