Forced management does more harm than good.
So, what's important to recognize in conversations that, involve the environment and climate change, such as this one, is that, from all main and important measurable statistical categories, we are already passed a point, that's a tipping point in climate change.
This is important to recognize, it means that, when you have discussions about climate change, the discussion about how to deal with climate change is no longer how can we stop climate change from getting too far, how can we stop climate change from destroying the earth, destroying environments, eradicating ecosystems, etcetera.
The conversations about how can we scale back the harm that has already been done, what technologies can we develop that will scale back harm.
So, when people make arguments about how sustainability is important for future climate change, and to prevent climate change that is not necessarily the case anymore.
As importantly as it was, ten fifteen years ago, when we hadn't gone past those tipping points CO two emissions and things of that nature.
So with that being said, there are two major reasons why sustainable forest management does more harm than it does good: the first is that, certain degradation is necessary to keep an ecosystem in equilibrium, and certain degradation is good for the environment.
So, something that's actually crucial to understand is that, forests naturally have degradation that occur in them.
There's not a lot of build up that occurs in these forests naturally, to the extent that you see when they're sustainable forest management, that keeps things from clear cutting to happening, or burning down forests in large forest areas, like, that's done in certain rainforests in south america, in order to allow those areas to become more fertile, things like this are not allowed.
What's important to recognize is that, when you don't allow these things to happen, long term risks of really bad things happening, like super fires in very dense forests, are more likely to happen, because when you have a lot of build up of more woodland area, of more things on the ground that can burn, of areas that, otherwise could have been done, been used for crops and such.
What happens is that when you get this massive build up, you're actually much more likely to get very extensive forest fires, that are larger than had been previously seen.
So when you do things to try and sustain forests, especially in areas like california, where there's a massive drought going on, the problem is that, oftentimes this leads to more harm in the long run.
, it's also important to recognize that, many of these places, where this forest management is being done, directly harms indigenous cultures.
For example, in south america in places like brazil, slash burn, slash, like, burning down certain areas, forests, in order to make them more fertile was a common practice, and things like this prevent that from happening.
So, certain ways of managing the culture the the ecosystem in which you find yourself, are limited by this.
Especially groups that are , that are in need of economic aid.
So, that's the second reason that this does more harm than good, is that it massively detracts from economic good that could be done.
It's important to realize that, many of these , many of these programs, much of the advocacy involved with sustainable forest management, is advocacy that is especially linked to developing countries.
Places where resource extraction still hasn't been done as extensively, or resource extraction can't be done as cleanly and mining, and things like that, these developing countries are the same developing countries, of which sustainable forest management where deforestation is at highest risk, because there are people that in urban areas more people are living to to a long life, more people need housing, more people population growth in these areas is up, so, this is where deforestation is likely happening.
These are the areas that need all the cropland they can get.
They need as much efficacy in the economic sense as possible, and it's unfair that these are the people that should be forced to bear the burden, because the climate change that has occurred didn't benefit them in the economic sense.
There are certain benefits, as far as better medical care and things like that, that were helpful for these groups, but these groups never got the chance to have the economic growth that, developed countries did, and we think that it is unfair trying to put the burden on them, through sustainable forest management in these areas.
We think it's incredibly unjust that these people aren't allowed to benefit in the same way that developed countries do, especially given that we are already passed a tipping point on climate change, which makes it which means that the efficacy that's government team is talking about, the government side talks about, ensuring that these places that climate change doesn't go too far, those arguments simply get weighed out, when you consider the fact that there is massive economic gain to be had, massive urbanization to be had, that has good good benefits for people, from the top to the bottom in society.
Given that that's the case, we think that sustainable forest management simply does more harm than it does good.