We should not cancel the patriot act.
In this round we think there's really one fundamentally important issue at stake here and that's national security.
Does the patriot act improve national security?
And is national security the most important issue in the round?
So that's what we're going to talk about in this debate.
We think that the government's highest priority should be the protection of its citizens.
Why is this the case?
We say of the state exists because in a state of nature there are no protections of self or personal freedoms.
People give up certain abilities in order to have security and freedom maximization.
In nature, if I am in a state of nature, there's no fundamental rights that protect me because those rights don't have any power.
There's no enforcement.
In order to access any other goods or rights one must first have their life and their bodily autonomy.
Nothing matters if those things aren't met prior to any of the third party concerns or tertiary concerns that may arise.
While the state by its own existence must provide security, there's no inherent right to privacy that can be derived from the state existing.
So even if you believe that the state does have some sort of obligation to give its citizens privacy, or to protect privacy in some way, we think that the state by its own existence must provide security.
And because of this we think that this is the primary right that must be upheld before you can start to consider things like privacy.
We think it's obvious that there are a number of serious threats that the patriot act hopes defend against.
For example, there are a number of terrorist groups, both abroad and domestic, that want to undermine the united states by targeting its citizens.
Additionally, there are lone there are lone wolf actors who want to harm innocents, and following nine eleven there's been a spike in terrorist activity globally.
And this is a trend that has not fallen off in recent years.
It's not a trend that is likely to fall off anytime in the near future.
So we think that the threat is very real, that the united states faces, and just because it's been a number of years since domestic terror attack like nine eleven, it doesn't but other domestic terror attacks haven't occurred and that we shouldn't still be highly vigilant, which is what the patriot act does.
So let's talk about that.
What does the patriot act do that actually insurers better national security?
Well first it gives more leverage for the government to detain and target actors who themselves denounce the protections that would otherwise be afforded to them.
It ensures that the government can work in ways for non citizens that ensures us to that ensures that the US is able to detain actors that would otherwise harm citizens.
It gives a much more broad security and ability to investigate, wiretap, and otherwise gather information that's crucial in undermining terrorist plots.
And finally, when innocent people, innocent people simply are not the target of this act.
Yes, the government is collecting information on those innocent people, but it's not going to act on it.
There's a high priority for fighting terrorism.
There's a high value of fighting terrorism.
And terrorism as a serious threat is going to be the overriding target of these investigative powers, of this wiretapping, of this scanning through massive amounts of information.
And if you're an innocent person, you have no reason to fear that the government is going to do anything with this data, it's going to do anything to target you, because it wants to ensure that this program will continue to last.
It wants to ensure that it still has the discretionary power to go after terrorists.
To investigate and detain those terrorists.
And it's not going to do this sort of broad overreach of its, of the patriot act power because we think that would likely lead to a massive political backlash that those involved simply do not want.
We think that what the patriot act really does is allows the united states to be fundamentally more secure against a high threat such as terrorism.
For these reasons we should not cancel the patriot act.