We should ban factory farming.
In this debate, we're going to make two broad arguments about why factory farming or farming in large-scale large-scale industry farming should not be allowed.
The first is about animal rights, and the second is about global warming.
First, on animal rights: we would say that rights are not just something that come out of the universe or from our existence, but are rather an emergent property of human societies.
What this means is that we think that in order to rights in order for rights to be binding, they need to be consistent and objective, because there needs to be some sort of standard that our societies can use when applying those rights.
This is how we distinguish rights from simple desires and in reality, the maxim that we use when we're determining rights is maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain.
We think that all rights systems, whether they're deontologically-based or whether they're based on utilitarian concerns or anything else, they essentially boil down to those principles.
So, why should animals have rights based on this idea?
So, just because we cannot internalize and understand animal pain and pleasure in the same way that we can with other humans, it doesn't mean that these emotions don't exist and that they shouldn't be valued.
We think that denying animals rights would be creating an arbitrary distinction.
It would be saying even though animals can feel pain and pleasure, even though those are the maxims that we look to avoid or minimize and maximize, that we're going to just arbitrarily say they don't deserve to have any sort of rights protections.
And recognize: this doesn't mean that animals need to have all the same rights protections as humans, it just means that they're deserving of some basic protections that are involved in animal pain and pleasure.
So, for example, the freedom of speech is an important human freedom because our freedom of speech inhibits or progresses our pain and pleasure in the world, whereas animals don't need these types of rights.
But factory farming undermines very basic rights that animals should have, such as the animals' rights to simply live a comfortable life, to roam in open spaces, to be able to live in a way that isn't constantly full of pain, and factory farms violate these in a in many ways.
Firstly, it's probably the case, based on these ideas, that we shouldn't eat animals, but let's ignore that for a second.
Saying we can, what are the kind of situations that these animals are placed in?
Well, they're put in incredibly small cages with very little room to spread out, to walk around, to breed, and these are all things that go directly against their animal instincts and cause them immense amounts of emotional distress.
There's also no emotional well-being because in the in the factory, you just aren't able to form connections and communities with other animals along with you.
There's also rampant disease and lots of antibiotics that cause the health of these animals to decline.
And finally, these animals literally exist to be killed.
Their life is a constant series of degradation and pain.
We think that this obviously violates the rights they deserve to have.
Secondly, we're going to talk briefly about global warming.
Factory farming is a huge contributor to global warming and ecological degradation.
So even if you don't think animals deserve to have rights, we think that global warming poses a threat to all human rights, and factory farming impacts this.
The major way in which factory farming impacts this is that when you have such industrial-scale farming, huge amounts of methane are released from both cows, pigs and other animals.
And this is a shockingly large contributor to global warming, and methane is a greenhouse gas that contributes to the warming of the earth.
We think that this this impact that these animals have is reason enough that we should at least eliminate factory farms.
It would result in less meat if we just had normal farming practices in which animals were raised in more agrarian styles, and this is good because fewer animals are exhuming less methane, which leads to less global warming in the long run.
So even if you don't think animals deserve to have any rights, we think that shifting our style of farming from factory farming, by banning factory farming, is good for our own human preservation.
For these reasons, we should ban factory farming.