We should subsidize single parents.
When we're talking about subsidizing single parents, we think we're talking about things like tax breaks for single parents, like giving sort of special benefits out to those single parents, like increased food stamps, like increased welfare payments, things like this in order to support those parents.
Two reasons why we think it is absolutely necessary to do this.
The first is that we have an obligation to children.
So, irregardless of how you feel about single parenthood, irregardless of how you feel about whether or not it's responsible to have a child as a single individual or whether or not these people were irresponsible in the behavior that led them to having a child, we think that the children in these situations did not bring these situations upon themselves, and these situations are absolutely difficult for those children to bear.
Children that are the children of single parents and just factually end of having lower grades in school.
They ultimately have a higher rate of depression, a higher rate of violent crime, a higher rate of things like suicide.
Being a child of a single parent means that you often have a more stressed relationship with your parent because they have to work harder to support you, which means you don't have that role model in your life, that safety blanket that most children have when they have two parents.
It means that there are less resources available to them.
They're often poor.
They often have less extracurriculars available to them because they don't have the money to support those things, and they often have to do things like work additional jobs.
And these are all burdens that are placed onto these children through no fault of their own.
It was simply the situation they were born into due to the lottery of birth.
We think that all people, but especially children, should have an equal opportunity to have the benefits of the life that we enjoy in developed nations.
We think that these children should have the ability to have the freedom to grow and express themselves, to be free of the burdens of things like work, at least for a majority of their childhood.
They should be free from having to worry about financial instability because, as I said, they never chose the avenue that brought them into this situation.
And given that that's the case, we think that it is absolutely crucial to subsidize single parents because without doing this, we've seen factually the impacts that children face in these situations.
But secondly, we would say that parenthood should be a right.
We think that the amount of money you have, your social stature, is certainly not indicative of your ability to be a parent.
There are rich people in the world all the time who have children, but do a terrible job of raising those children, of instilling moral values into them, of teaching them a strong work ethic, all these things that we think are absolutely crucial to parenthood.
And we think that people shouldn't be excluded from something that is for many considered to be a fundamental part of one's life simply because they're single, simply because they don't have another adult that they decided to spend the rest of their life with.
We think that these people should still be able to access the part of life, that part of the human experience that is raising a child and having a child, and we think that the burden that falls on children is a similar burden that falls on parents.
Being a single parent is simply more costly.
It means that you have one income to support an additional person.
It means that you have to spend more time working and less time with your child, and we don't think that this is fair to those parents either.
These people are in these situations not because of their choice, but because of the society that they were born into and the society that they live in.
And we think that people, all people, should have the right to something like this basic human experience, this part of the human experience that many people think is necessary for self-actualization and for immense emotional fulfillment.
For these reasons, we should subsidize single parents.