We should abolish the olympic games.
So, for the purpose of the model, we think this is very simple.
We would just say that every four years, every two years, because there's a winter and a summer games, we would no longer host the olympics.
We wouldn't allow any country to host these things.
We would say that if it were to happen, countries should boycott it.
We simply think the olympic games should come to an end.
Okay.
A few reasons why we think the olympic games need to be abolished.
The first is that the olympic games are incredibly bad for the countries that host them.
So, people may have an understanding of the olympics as a way to increase tourism to a region, a way to increase economic inflow to a region, a way to get people or to get countries on the map, put cities on the map, and create your create a stage that you can put yourself on a higher global standing, but in reality the olympics do very little for the countries that host them.
For example, when brazil hosted the olympics most recently, they were first suffering from an immense economic downturn that only allowed there to be even more pressure placed on them to put infrastructure in place to build for the olympics that counteracted all the things that the state needed to do in order to support its people, in order to serve its national interests.
So these things often come at massively inopportune times for the countries and again, there's very little way to plan for the time when you're going to face an economic downturn.
But even when you're not in that situation, whenever you host the olympic games, you're forced to construct a massive amount of infrastructure.
Almost no country can support the olympic games without constructing many more stadiums, housing housing facilities for the for the people that compete in the games, for coaches and things like this.
It takes an immense amount of infrastructure spending, an immense amount of building and construction, in order to put these games together.
But the problem is these this type of infrastructure does very little to serve the country moving forward.
The country simply doesn't need seventeen different soccer stadiums for any other sporting event but the olympics and once these stadiums are created, they simply lay there and rot and waste.
It's a massively inefficient way of spending your money.
And also, economic inflow that goes in the country is oftentimes outweighed by this infrastructure creation, so it doesn't even allow there's not even a short-term net gain of constructing this infrastructure, especially when revenue needs to be shared with the IOC and different partners that exist within the olympics.
There's very little left over for the state itself to gain in revenue.
So, we think that simply the olympic games are bad for the host countries.
We also think that the olympic games, as they stand, allow you to glorify powerful countries and powerful states at the expense of less powerful ones.
Recognize that the games themselves are incredibly unequal.
There are developed states that that are capable of pouring millions of dollars into supporting programs, into training programs, into the athletic programs versus the mass majority of countries that simply don't have either the population size or the money at their disposal to create winning olympic teams.
And so what you end up seeing in the olympic standings, year after year, is that powerful nations are able to dominate over less powerful nations.
We think that this doesn't foster any type of system of cooperation but only resentment towards the more powerful countries.
And we think that in a increasingly globalized world, it's problematic that every four or every two years, we create this immense amount of competition between states when we should be trying to foster cooperation.
People sometimes say that the olympics are a way of bringing the global community together, but it's odd that we do this in such a way in which it ultimately turns into a competition between the states, where the powerful states, the ingrained states, always end up on top.
We think that this is a bad signaling mechanism and is a bad job of fostering cooperation.
We also think that given that there are massive infrastructure and spending outlays in order to host the olympics, we think that these countries, especially the less developed countries that oftentimes end up hosting the olympics, we think that it would just be much preferable for these states to put money into their into their nations, into their nation building, into helping their populace, rather than building stadiums that are going to be used on a global stage for two weeks and ultimately abandoned and turned into bus parking lots.
For those reasons, we should abolish the olympic games.