We should not end daylight saving times.
So a lot of people complain about daylight saving time because they view it as this thing that throws off their schedule.
They see it as something that leads to more traffic accidents when the times are thrown off because people are tired when they get out and they go to work in the morning.
They see it as something that is a major inconvenience to them something that lasts for a couple of days and they move on but those two days just aren't worth it.
We think that this is a very short-sighted way of looking at daylight saving time and that these are generally poor arguments when you can when you compare them to the larger ramifications of daylight saving time and the benefit that it brings to people over the entire year.
What daylight saving time actually allows for is that it gives more daylight in evening for working adults approximately eight months of the year for spring, summer and most of fall.
Working age adults that work nine-to-fives otherwise wouldn't be able to live in the sunlight because they're spending their days in an office or at work or not freely able to spend their time as they see fit.
These adults are now able to interact and do things out in the sun and we think that this, while a very simple benefit, is a tremendous benefit for the types of impacts that it has.
So let's lay out some of those impacts.
The sun is really good.
The some staves off depression in a large number of people.
Many people, especially when the winter rolls around, they are affected by something called seasonal affective disorder but seasonal affective disorder also can affect people if they aren't if they aren't exposed to the sun.
This cuts down on their productivity during the day, this cuts down on their mental health and well being, this can have huge ramifications on people all throughout the year and adding extra time at the end of the day for people to be out and be in the sun is hugely beneficial in staving off seasonal affective disorder.
It also promotes physical activity.
People are more likely to go outside and be physically active when they're able to go out during the daytime, when they're able to go out and walk around their neighborhood and do it in the sun.
They're able to they're expose themselves to the sun's rays, they get generally better emotional well-being when doing this and they get healthier along the way.
These are all things that sunlight and later sun time helps to promote.
It also regulates the bodily cycle for the workday.
People aren't used to just being waking up and going into the office and coming out and it being dark.
They're just not productive after work.
They're not able to do things in their free time after work if they're leaving work and they're always walking into darkness.
This is why people is another reason why during the winter people are just less active generally.
It's because they wake up in darkness they leave and they leave work again and there's darkness.
They just don't see something that drives them to go outside.
And finally while people complain that there are more traffic accidents because of daylight saving time on the days after daylight savings occurs, this is actually something that is when you look at it in the large scheme demonstrably false and the reason for this is that when you have people commuting during the daylight which is what happens eight months out of the year because of daylight saving time, there are actually fewer traffic accidents than there would be without it because people are generally better drivers, safer drivers during the day.
This view of daylight saving time that the that there are like massive harms doesn't see the actual benefits that are right in front of people's faces eight months out of the year.
Look the status quo just does not do that much harm over the course of the two days that people complain about to undo all of the possible benefits of more exposure to sunlight eight months out of the year for most working class adults.
For these reasons, we should not end daylight saving times.