We should not ban racial profiling.
When we're talking about racial profiling, and we wanna make it clear that we're talking about racial profiling in a broad sense, we wouldn't advocate that police agitate and arrrest individual simply because of their race, but we think that under a broader definition which racial profiling only occurs when race is used along with an affiliation of another factor, another series of factors that would implicate guilt, we think that this is an instance in which racial profiling is okay and is actually effective to use.
So we're gonna talk about two things.
Firstly, we're gonna talk about the statistical effectiveness of racial profiling and secondly, we're gonna talk about the abuse that the proposition team points out how and we can avoid it.
So firstly, we think that large numbers of statistical data and large datasets exists that show and allow police and investigators to better analyze how crime is likely going to occur.
According to these statistical methods, oftentimes race is correlated with certain levels of criminal activity in certain types of crime, especially in certain areas.
We think that this isn't necessarily a negative stigma against individuals of that race, and we don't think that society should treat it as such, but we think that these statistical correlations are ways for the police officers and for investigators to predict when crime is likely going to occur.
We think that the job of police officers in a society through the criminal justice system, is try to prevent crime from occurring, and if you can use this data to try and prevent crime before harm has already happened, we think that the government and these police units should do so.
We think that it's valuable to ensure that the rights of people are upheld, and because you still need large implications of guilt, you still need evidence to convict because rights of the , of the presumes of a possible criminal, are protected in the status quo in a way in which they will receive long term harm in the same way that the conviction of a crime can achieve that type of harm.
We think that these we think that this is only one of many reasons in which would stop and arrest someone, but if it can be a way in which you can more effectively prevent crime, we think that you need to do it given that there's massive data to show that these types of crimes that there is a correlation between race and crime in certain areas.
So, finally we wanna talk about the ways to check against abuse.
Because there is certainly abuse in the status quo.
We think that ways in which prosecution exists should be changed to ensure that abuse doesn't happen.
We think things like large scale plea bargaining are generally bad and that public defender should be better and that the rights of the, of the presumed guilty of the innocent should be always upheld, but we don't think that that is necessarily a problem with racial profiling itself but rather with the larger criminal justice system as it exists.
We think that these statistical correlations are important to take advantage of they can ensure that fewer people end up in jail in the long run, that fewer crimes are committed and carried out in the long run and that when effective policing is done, you can have a better you can have better community involvement with police.
We think that's another way in which you can insure that these types of abuses don't happen.
Because there's a distinguishment between racial profiling abuse of policing, and we think that you can have racial profiling while still ensuring that in areas where there is contempt between police and civilians in that area, that you can have police go in and try and build better relations, whether it's through sympathy training, or ways of educating police to understanding the communities that they are policing, or more importantly, community involvement with police, having them do volunteer work and things like that, has shown to create better relationships between police and community, and we think when you have those better relationships, racial profiling doesn't become the issue that it is.
We think it allows people to prevent crime before it occurs, and we think that it ensures that you get the most efficacious sense of policing while still balancing the rights of the victim and if you can ensure that the rights of the innocent are upheld y, we don't think that it's an issue.
And given that racial profiling doesn't lead to the harms that come during prosecutions of the innocent, but rather just is a way of policing itself, we don't think that that is the same debate that needs to be held.
We think you can both have racial profiling and correct for those prosecutorial errors, and that they are not they are certainly not embedded within one another.
And given that's the case we think that we should not ban racial profiling.