We should ban male infant circumcision.
So we think that at the very beginning of the debate, it's important to recognize that we think that the government's main priority and main job is to ensure that bodily autonomy is absolute, and the right bodily autonomy is not freely infringed upon.
We think up bodily autonomy is the most important right because it is necessary to access all other rights.
If you don't have the freedom to use your body in the way you see fit, to have your bodily secure in the way that you see fit, to feel safe and secure within that body, we don't think it is possible to access these other rights nor to access any of those things that makes life worth living.
We think that male infant circumcision is a clear and obvious violation of this right to bodily autonomy.
It is obviously the case that an infant is simply not capable of consenting to this type of procedure.
That as a baby it is not possible in any meaningful way for this baby to consent to having part of their penis removed, nor are they able to consent into the religious practice that they're likely having this procedure done upon them because of.
Because there's no way for this infant to consent into this procedure, we think it is and frankly barbaric to force a child to have this procedure done upon them.
What's also important to recognize is that these this procedure is irreversible.
So not only is it a violation of bodily autonomy but it is it is one that cannot be undone.
So someone is scarred because of this, if someone meaningfully hurt because of this, if they grow up and they wish it hadn't been done, that is a violation that can never be undone.
And unlike other ways in which we violate the autonomy of infants, in which we force them to do things like vaccinations or force them to do things like eat healthy foods, there's no meaningful health benefits of male circumcision.
It's just not something that is going to meaningfully improve the health and well being of the child in any meaningful way.
Given that this is the case, we don't think there there is a justification for this violation of bodily autonomy, that there's no way to remove the harm done by this violation of bodily autonomy, and it goes directly against the face of what the government should be doing.
What's further important to recognize is that people may argue that there are religious reasons for doing this.
People may say that their religious dictates and that it is the obligation of a good religious household to raise their child and to do this procedure onto that child.
But recognize that in these religions there's nothing about the religious dictate to have a circumcision that says this has to be done upon an infant.
We think that doing this to an infant simply forces them into that religious lifestyle before they can uniquely consent into it and we think that there's no reason to do this then.
We think that if someone chooses to take upon that religious obligation, they can do it later in life and there's no spiritual or religious harm in doing something in that nature.
And we think that, finally, that this is an especially invasive violation of bodily autonomy because we're dealing with the sexual organ.
This is something that people, in particular men, feel very attached to, they feel very self conscious about, and this is something that has a really significant impact on their psyche and their emotional well being growing up.
Even if this isn't how life should be, it is the way that life is for many men.
And forcing this procedure onto them can have severe psychological harms on them moving forward.
Look, the government's main job is to uphold bodily autonomy.
Without any meaningful justification and the rightful justification for doing this onto an infant before they can consent, before they have the capacity to consent, we think it is a violation that is unacceptable.
For these reasons we should ban male infant circumcision.