We should legalize organ trade.
When we're talking about organ trade, we're talking about a system in which people can really buy and sell organs as they see fit.
We're only going to put in a few restrictions, and that's going to be our model.
So, first, we're going to say you have to be over the age of eighteen in order to do this.
You have to be a legal adult in order to sell your organs organs.
Secondly, there are going to be minimum values set on the market that are proportional to what those organs are likely to be worth if there were some sort of free and open market.
And secondly, there's going to be a psychiatric evaluation to ensure that people that are giving the organs are in the right state of mind and in order to minimize coercion.
So, two main arguments.
The first is that this is the best solution to a massive organ shortage, and the second is against coercion, which we think is the largest argument that people lob against programs like this generally.
So, let's talk about that shortage.
In the status quo, there's a huge organ shortage.
There are many people with little with and there's very little possibility of correcting this in the status quo.
There's simply not enough people that volunteer to be organ donors and many of those who do, only give theirs their organs course post-mortem, which means that something may be wrong with those organs, that there may not be enough time between their death and the deterioration of those organs to use them, or they may have died because those organs failed them, which means they're not valuable to put in anyone else.
This dooms many people who are living right now on the organ transplant list and means that many people are going to die, simply because people will not give.
So what's another alternative solution?
Well, you could force people to give.
You could make it so that when you die, you must give your organs, mandatory post-mortem organ donation.
We think that this is a huge violation of bodily autonomy and a huge violation, and it goes against the consent of many people.
It doesn't give them an opportunity consent or one to opt out.
It also violates many religious beliefs, which we think harms those in the present and causes them fear that they're going to lose some sort of salvation in the afterlife.
We think that the sale solves.
Look, people are still going to give post-mortem organs, because some people want to give.
So it's not like only rich people are going to be able to get organ donations.
What this means is that rich people can buy organs, taking them off the waitlist and leaving more spots for everyone else to get the organs from those that remain.
And we'd say that oftentimes, you don't even need both of your organs or full organs, like a liver, to live, like having two kidneys, and this offers an avenue for people to make precious money that could be a huge difference in their lives.
This is when the coercion argument comes up, and people say that this type of a system is massively coercive.
Many on the other side argue that this is coercive because poor people are just going to give their organs for money and that these people are going to be forced to because they're poor.
Very unnuanced argument.
Three arguments in response to that: first, if that's the case, we would say the whole economic system is coercive.
There's no reason that this is any more coercive than forcing people to spend most of their lives and most of their time working at dead-end jobs.
Secondly, poor people have more agency than that.
They know their organs are valuable, and they also know that selling their organs could mean that they lose they have some sort of health risk in the future, so they're not just going to give willy nilly.
And finally, this is a comparatively less coercive solution than any of the others that are proposed to solve the organ problem.
It's a balance of free market solution that balances the need for us to get more organs, to save more lives of people that are dying, and the rights of people to choose not to give.
It finds that balance and for these reasons, we should legalize organ trade.