We should not subsidize investigative journalism.
So before we get into the arguments that the government side makes, we want to give a brief overview about the kind of the principle we want to sustain throughout the round and we think that it's important to recognize that a subsidy creates a dependence.
When you have a subsidized form of income, when you have money in budgets that depends on a subsidy that you are receiving when you do something like hire an extra journalist because you have this subsidy, it means that you become dependent on that subsidy in some way and this means that you are beholden to those that are granting you the subsidy.
We think that this creates a conflict of interest in which it shields those that are most that are most in need of monitoring.
When the government is giving you a subsidy for your investigative journalism we think it makes it more difficult for you to investigate those that are in power that are providing that subsidy and because of that, we think we would rather have a system in which there may be less investigative journalism but when you know there's no conflict of interest.
The first argument that the government side makes is that this is a public service and because it's a public service this should be given there should be some sort of subsidy provided to this and they give examples like cable and water services how they can be private but still get public subsidies.
We think that this is unique uniquely needs to be separate from public institutions.
We don't think that this is comparable to a cable provider or a water provider because there's no conflict of interest with a water provider getting money from the government like there is in the case of investigative journalism and because of that we don't think that the examples the government side gives are comparable.
They say that it's not a conflict of interest is the only real response we get to the argument that we're making.
It's not a conflict of interest because you're beholden to your company as a journalist and you can use private funds.
We think that this is entirely naive.
Once you start getting income from an outside source, we think the company especially in journalism an industry that is currently struggling for not just small journalism institutions but also big ones like the washington post and the new york times these are struggling institutions and we think that once they get a subsidy that allows them to keep their lights on, that allows them to function at a a at cost, we think that they're going to be entirely beholden on these and just because journalists are beholden to their to their company this doesn't mean that it's going to prevent a sort of conflict of interest because the company is the one that's getting the subsidy.
The second argument they make is that this fights the super rich and that people like rupert murdoch control too much media and you need an alternative source of funding.
This completely contradicts the point they just made about how because you're beholden to your company you won't have you won't have to you don't have to worry about a conflict of interest because rupert murdoch is the company.
You're giving the subsidy to rupert murdoch and to his company.
So giving a subsidy doesn't fight the super rich in any way.
It just means that you're giving them a subsidy when they continue to spit out the propaganda that government side is so concerned with.
They say the government acts on a public interest and therefore the government should be able to act in this way.
This is fine but we don't think that this stops the other issues that we brought up in the round such as the conflict of interest and the and the issue that government brings up which is that you're giving more money to those that are in power like rupert murdoch.
The final argument they make is that this is consistent with other subsidies like the BBC and they give the BBC as an example of how this can be done successfully.
We're not against all forms of public journalism like we're fine with PBS and the likes existing, but we think that when you have private institutions you should keep them private, you should keep them separate from the government because of the issues of conflict of interest that we brought up already and we think that it's crucial that you have those private sector divide as it exists in the status quo.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize investigative journalism.