We should not ban telemarketing.
In this round we're going to go through the arguments presented by the government's side and explain why we think they are insufficient to justify banning telemarketing.
So the first argument that we get from the government side is that telemarketing is intrusive and therefore it should be banned.
The first argument to make under this is that there's a right to privacy in your home and we think that that's a fairly reasonable point to make but we also think that telemarketing doesn't violate that in a meaningful way.
You don't have to answer.
Everyone's phone nowadays has caller ID.
Everyone can see when an eight hundred number or an eight eight eight number is calling and they can choose not to answer the phone.
They next say that this is something that you simply can't escape but for the reasons we explained this is blatantly untrue.
It's entirely possible to just not answer the phone but in addition to that, there's also do not call lists that you can be placed on to ensure that you don't receive these phone calls.
So if you if you are so annoyed by the phone calls that you're getting by these telemarketers and you can't deal with the fact that you can just not answer the phone, then you can be placed on a do not call list and therefore your privacy is secure without banning an entire industry and that's the thing that we think is so important in this round is that even if even if telemarketing is annoying, even if it's something that most people don't want to deal with, the fact that it is annoying is not justification for banning an industry.
We think in a free market system people should be allowed to solicit over the phone just like people should be allowed to solicit door to door.
You can turn someone away.
You can choose not to answer and that's entirely acceptable.
But we think in a free society it's it's something that is both in very difficult to enforce as far as like banning someone from making phone calls but also is something that should just be allowed when there are easy alternatives that allow the free market to continue to exist.
Finally, under this first point he says it's a waste of time.
Again it's like thirty seconds of your time.
You answer the phone, you see it's a telemarketer and you hang up, that's easy as that.
We just don't think that this is a major violation of privacy and therefore it doesn't require any sort of government action.
The second argument that they make is that this is a predatory predatory practice and sets the standard that states should ban practices that have disproportionate harms on certain communities.
We think that this is a slippery slope standard.
We think that there are many instances in which different practices and different actions have disproportionate acts impacts on communities because those are communities that disproportionately opt into systems that may be harmful to them and we think that in those instances people are using their own free will to make decisions for themselves and it may be based on communal standards that are different from other communities but that's totally acceptable.
We think that this standard of paternalism is too easily flexible and is not sufficient for justifying government action.
So the group that the government side is talking about is the elderly.
They say the elderly are abused are abused by this, they don't know about telemarketing practices, they're taken it usually.
We have four responses: the first is that there's checks on abuse when it does happen so just canceling credit card payments.
The second is that we think that when the when they say things like even legit businesses do this it shows we need a more complete response that banning telemarketing isn't going to solve.
Things like education, things like things like do not call list that you can place elderly people on.
We think that the elderly are already sufficiently stripped of their autonomy in in a large amount of situations and that stripping them with the autonomy of how to spend their money is not a proper way of going about solving a problem that in all reality is not a major issue.
As we've been saying throughout the round, we think that you should allow the free market when alternatives exist to prevent abuse and we've outlined a number of alternatives that show that telemarketing is not a major problem and for these reasons, we should not ban telemarketing.