We should abolish the US electoral college.
When the electoral college was instituted it made some degree of sense.
The average person was not able to become informed about the day to day activities of politicians, they weren't able to become fully informed about the issues that politicians acted upon, and it was a good idea to have a proxy to ensure that in cases in which rampant misunderstanding by the public or rampant dissatisfaction with the public's choice would have cost upheaval for our government, that it would have been good to have a proxy, the electoral college made sense.
Nowadays this is not the case.
There's no immense barrier to becoming informed, there's no immense barrier to an informed public, and in fact the proxies that are chosen for this electoral college don't end up serving as that role anyway.
They are no longer at check.
And at the point at which their initial purpose is no longer possible, we think that the electoral college is an anti-democratic institution that undermines the legitimacy of the american state.
So we're going to talk about why it is undemocratic in its nature.
The first thing is that what's obvious and what has arrisen in two of the past five presidential elections is that the electoral college can lead to a case in which the person that receives the majority of votes, the person that wins the popular vote, even with a majority of more than fifty percent, that person can lose in the electoral college, and therefore lose the presidency.
And this means that you end up getting executives who has immense power over american military action, an executives who has an immense amount of control over which legislation can come to pass and which party maintains the amount of power in washington.
These types of things are cued in because of who is the president.
Because it is a sole player in an executive electoral roll.
And you have a situation in which most people did not vote for the person that is in charge.
We think that this is a clearly anti-democratic situation and if you're going to have an executive official, someone that is outside of the legislative body, we think that that person should at least be chosen and a majoritarian way to ensure that that person's most representative of all people in the state.
What it also means, the electoral college, is that you get worse presidential elections despite who ends up in office and you discount the votes of large chunks of people.
The way that this occurs is that if you are a democratic voter in a deeply blue state such as massachusetts or california, or if you're a republican voter in a deeply red state, such as much of the deep south including texas and alabama and mississippi, if you are one of these types of voters your vote simply does not matter, and the reason for this is that in the electoral college in most states you don't need to get, it doesn't matter if you win fifty one percent of the state or if you win seventy six percent of the state.
You get all of those electoral votes and therefore it doesn't make a difference what the margin of victory is.
What this means is that if you are a part of the majority in one of these states you are likely not going to have a meaningful vote because your vote ends up being discounted by the fact that you are , the margin no longer matters.
If you create a system in which there's majoritarian or popular vote, then it doesn't matter if you are one of these voters in these deeply red or deeply blue states, and it no longer makes it the case that swing states get an overwhelming amount of attention because margin starts to matter.
And it starts to matter that you turn out your base, that you attract voters all across the country and that you actually pay attention to those voters.
We think that by abolishing the electoral college you create a system in which the popular vote always wins out.
You create a system in which no matter who becomes the executive, that is a person that was endorsed by most people that were eligible to vote, or most people that turned out to vote, and you create a system in which people actually feel like their vote matters.
It doesn't just matter if you're in a swing state like ohio or florida, your vote can matter in massachusetts, in california and in texas.
And we think that in a democracy everyone should feel that their vote matters.
For these reasons we should abolish the US electoral college.