ADHD management brings more good than harm.
At the beginning of the debate, it's again crucial to recognize what we're talking about when we talk about ADHD management.
We don't think that ADHD management necessarily means that people are being forced to take drugs at a high level that people are being put on prescription drugs at very young ages, though these things are often part of the type of prevention and management that we're talking about, we think that there are, that this is not a necessary part of a DHD management but rather something that in an ideal world could be legislated in order to ensure that abuse of prescription doesn't occur.
But we don't think that abuse of prescription is a necessary part of ADHD management, nor do we think that it is an overwhelming part of ADHD management in the status quo.
Rather, what we think ADHD management does, is it allows children to get a head start on their future and allows them to manage their education and things like this in a much more robust way, that actually sets a foundation for them moving forward.
When we're talking about ADHD management, where often talking about children age six through eighteen, children who are at a place in their lives where their education and their ability to focus specifically is is incredibly important.
Why is this the case?
We think that the education you receive at the beginning of your life, often, is the most important time of development and setting success for a person's future.
We think that education is the key to social mobility, and that education is hampered by the inability of people with ADHD to focus on their studies.
Recognizing that ADHD is not a flaw of someone in a moral sense, or a flaw of someone in how they are, we think that just in our society in the status quo, it is often difficult for individuals who are growing up with many types of stimuli, to actually focus when they enter their educational systems.
What this means is that ADHD management provides a path to ensure that in an incredibly distracting and increasingly distracting world, individuals, when they enter their classrooms, are able to focus on the education at hand.
Why is this crucial?
Because, firstly, when individuals are not able to get this education, it's incredibly difficult for them to succeed in moving into the future.
It's hard to get a college education, it's hard to get vocational training, it's hard to get access to different internships and other pathways to success in the future if you don't have foundational education starting in the k through twelve level.
That's why we think that, especially in this phase which is where ADHD management is most prevalent, we think that this is an especially crucial time for children to be able to get this benefit.
But, what is the comparative in this debate?
We think that without ADHD management, certainly ADHD does not go away.
The problems of children being hyperactive and not being able to pay attention in their classrooms, is a problem that's going to happen regardless.
What we think happens when you don't have large scale ADHD management programs, programs that allow children to succeed in that classroom, is that parents start to get angry at their children.
Their parents start to look at their children and wonder why they're not able to be successful.
They treat this not as an issue of mental health, but rather as a moral issue that their children are simply not living up to the moral standards of being a functioning person in society.
When that happens, we think that children suffer additionally, because not only are they not able to get the education they need in school, but additionally they're not able to get support at home, they're not able to get understanding from their parents, and it makes the trial and tribulation that they go through increasingly more difficult.
When firstly you're in school, struggling to be able to focus, when that is compounded with parents telling you that you are to blame for not being able to focus, when your parents are telling you that something's wrong with you, we think that that makes education and overall the child's life much more difficult, and we think that this is the most likely comparative if you don't have a treatment program.
Because, children are still going to struggle in school, especially those with ADHD, and without some sort of broad scaling management program, we think the most likely alternative is that parents start to grow frustrated with their children, rather thann grow more accepting of the fact that their children are going to be the way they are.
Given that this is the case, we think that ADHD management certainly brings more good than harm.