We should not ban racial profiling.
So we want to be clear what we mean in this round.
We're not saying that racial profiling should be used in all circumstances.
There are certainly certain policies, like stop and frisk, certain policies that target minorities unfairly and should not be used.
But we think that there are instances in which racial profiling is not just racial, but statistical, and in these instances, it's important to use.
So, let's talk about statistical profiling.
We think racial profiling needs to be based on statistics and not skin color.
There are statistics on crime going back decades.
We're able to study the crime in certain areas, the crime the rate of particular crimes amongst different racial groups, the rate of crime in total amongst different racial groups.
We're able to study in particular areas where crime is more likely amongst one racial group.
We have a ton of data that we've accumulated over the last century that can be used and has a correlation that is statistically significant in airports when targeting for terrorists, on the streets when targeting for street crime.
These are things that, yes, it is certainly the case that our social bias makes us stereotype certain races in these ways, but it doesn't mean that the statistics are not significant, that the correlation is not significant showing that certain racial groups are more likely to commit crimes in certain areas.
We think these numbers simply don't make themselves up.
We think it's crucial to prevent crime before it happens.
You cannot undo the harm of a crime once it has been committed.
And we're talking about things like racial profiling at airports when a second nine eleven could occur, a massive crime that impacts an entire country.
There's no way to undo that type of harm, to undo that type of social trauma, and we think it's important to prevent those types of things before it happens.
And profiling, as long as police aren't violent or corrupt, doesn't create any real harm.
If I stop you and think that you may have been someone that committed a crime or you may be someone that's about to commit a crime, but I don't do it in a violent way, I don't go in with an assumption of guilt, but I go in with a curiosity to check to make sure nothing is going on, if I don't verbally or physically abuse you, if I don't intimidate you with my badge, if I don't shoot you or jump to conclusions about who you are based on your skin color, but I do my job in checking the statistics and checking what likelihood of crime is about to happen or, you know, what likelihood of crime what likelihood there is of a certain person committing a crime based on their skin color, if I do that, but I do it in a respectful way, there's no direct harm that is created, and that's how racial profiling needs to be done.
We also think that it's important we also want to talk about the safety of citizens.
We think the safety of citizens is the most important and primary obligation of the government.
People consent into the state primarily to ensure their safety.
They do so and they give up certain freedoms to they give up certain abilities that they have and they consent to the coercive apparatus, because they want the safety of the state.
We think that given that this is the case, we think that if you have statistics that are that are statistically significant in their correlation between racial groups and crime, and if you can use this to prevent harm from being done before it cannot be undone, you are likely to create a safer society for all.
Yes, we are using certain stigmas in order to police.
But again, if you do this in a respectful way, if you don't do it in stupid ways, like stop and frisk policies, then we can we can use these statistics for beneficial ways to protect our citizens without creating excess harm.
For these reasons, we should not ban racial profiling.