We should not ban fast food.
By fast food we're largely talking about chain restaurants that deliver food quickly to individuals but for the most part, do not provide healthy options or primarily healthy options to the people they're serving.
And we think that when we're talking about fast food chains like mcdonald's, burger king, KFC, dunkin' doughnuts, any wide variety of food chains, are the ones that we're talking about and we would ban those, or at least the government team would have us ban all of those businesses.
So, we have three specific arguments.
The first is about choice, the second is about why banning fast food would be wholly discriminatory and the third is about the economic impacts.
So firstly, on choice: we think that unless there is some sort of asymmetry of information that exists, in which people didn't realize that fast food is bad for them, that the government should not be able to ban.
The reason for this is that we think what comes with respect as part of a society is that people are able to make their own choices and are able to validate those choices through their actions.
We think that as long as those choices aren't harming other people then those choices are entirely fair to make, as long as they're educated.
People know that fast food is bad for them.
People realize that fast food has lots of fat, that has lots of calories, that it's greasy, that it's not good for you.
People don't look at mcdonald's and burger king and think that they're getting a healthy option.
They realize the choices they're making but they choose to elevate the price or the taste above their health options.
And people do this in their private lives all the time and we don't stop it.
It's unclear to me why we should avoid people or why we should prevent people from paying into an economic system that actually bolsters jobs, that's improving the economy, why we shouldn't allow people to do that.
Given that they have the rational capability of choosing that health isn't going to be their foremost priority in having a meal.
And given that this is the case, we think that people, there's no broad justification for the ban.
So, what are two other problems that would come with banning?
First, it's discriminatory.
Recognize that the vast majority of fast food consumers are people that are in the lower and middle classes.
We think that it's primarily the case that individuals in this class make a cost trade-off.
They realize that this food isn't very good for them but because they don't have as much money as individuals that are privileged, they need to feed themselves and thus eat fast food.
We think if you ban fast food you remove an incredibly cheap food option for people that desperately need these cheap food options, you make people more reliant on government assistance, that simply does not exist in the status quo, and we think that you, not only do you demean the choice of people in general but you specifically single out the choices of this group of people and demean them.
You say that they're uneducated, you say that they're unhealthy and you say that what they're doing is fundamentally bad when you ban fast food.
But people don't entirely, people don't choose to be impoverished.
People don't choose to have to make this trade off but once they are in these positions, we think that we should allow them to make the decision as to whether or not they can afford to have other food, or whether or not they're going to make this trade off in the status quo.
Finally, why this would be horrible economically.
Recognize that fast food industries are billion dollar businesses, that conglomerates like mcdonald's and burger king and wendy's make billions upon billions of dollars every year.
We think, firstly, that if you as a state would've banned fast food, it would do very little to to cut it out like, globally.
But we can that you're cutting off job opportunities for people within your state because minimum wage jobs are very easy, are easily accessible to any variety of individuals, we think you cut off economic productivity, especially in places where franchises exist, so you cut off the ability for small businesses to operate and we think that you generally lead to a dead weight loss when individuals are not able to buy these things that they've had for so long.
Given that there would be clear economic drop off that we think would harm ultimately the jobs and the businesses in local areas, we think that you should not be banning fast food as an economic principle.
More importantly, we think that's a principle of respect for those within the community.
You shouldn't ban fast food simply because it is unhealthy, and simply because it would harm the worst off in society to do so.
And for these reasons we believe you should not ban fast food.