We should cancel the patriot act.
In this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments about why the patriot act should never have been passed and why it must be canceled.
The first is about constitutionality and why independent of outcomes, the patriot act should not exist, and secondly, about why there are better ways and other ways of preventing attacks that do a better job of meeting those constitutional and governmental standards.
So, on constitutionality.
Roe v wade, among among as well as other cases in the US supreme court, have found that there is a right to privacy in the constitution, and multiple other rulings have upheld that idea, that you have a right to a divide between public and private life, that you have a right to have some sort of space to retreat into being your private sphere.
The patriot act massively violates this by expanding the ability for us to perform, for the united states, that is, to perform intelligence operations and gathering without a warrant and to do such and do such things like bulk information gathering that does things like track phones and messaging, location, and tons of other information, simply from the devices that someone has on them.
The patriot act massively expanded the ability for the US to conduct surveillance operations not just on foreign actors, but also on those that exist within the united states, on citizens of the united states.
That goes directly against the constitutional right that these people have to privacy.
Why is unconstitutionality bad?
So, independent of all other impacts in this round, why is unconstitutionality something that we cannot allow to happen?
It's because the constitution has a purpose and that purpose is to bind government action.
It sets the boundaries of legitimate behavior that the government can take.
It doesn't say what the government must do, but it says that the government cannot act outside of these basic ideas, outside of these basic outside of this basic road map.
And to ignore that is to give the government free reign to act in any way that it sees fit.
It doesn't it removes a road map entirely from the government and creates a slippery slope towards further government infractions and further infractions of those rights that are outlined in the constitution.
We think that without that road map, the government can never be just.
It can never get the consent of its people if it's able to act without any recognition for the constitution, and that alone is a reason to cancel the patriot act.
So what are those other pragmatic harms that come from this?
Because we think you need to balance privacy with security, that there's also a right to life that is both implicit in the constitution, but also the explicit job of the government.
And the patriot act simply does not do a good job of striking that balance.
So, how can we better strike that balance?
Firstly, we would say that you cannot spy on US citizens, that in order to conduct those types of spy operations, maybe you don't need a publicly open warrant, but you need to get some sort of warrant, some sort of certification from a court system.
And you just need to show some sort of probable cause for this.
This is an an incredibly high barrier.
We also think that working with allies and using diplomacy to to gather intelligence on foreign actors is a much more a much more friendly, especially internationally friendly, approach to intelligence gathering instead of breaking into the wireless and internet systems of foreign countries and trying to observe their citizens without any of the consent of those countries.
We think that working with our allies, working with foreign actors, is something that's going to build camaraderie abroad and also probably going to lead to more specific intelligence, to more useful intelligence in the long run.
We can also also use our tech to strengthen cybersecurity and prevent new types of of threats from springing up.
In the twenty-first century, we're facing not just bombings and other terrorist acts, but attacks on our in on our infrastructure, on our internet infrastructure.
And upholding our cybersecurity can go a long way in preventing these types of harms, and more target intelligence, rather than bulk collection that the patriot act allows for, we think that these are all ways of striking a balance between privacy and security.
They keep us safe, but they don't go beyond constitutional means.
For these reasons, we should cancel the patriot act.