We should not disband amnesty international.
So, amnesty international is an organization that is focused on human rights and giving voice to those that have been unjustly imprisoned.
We think that they're doing excellent work in the status quo and that they're a necessary voice for people who are oppressed and that we simply should not disband them.
So, first, we're gonna talk about that, the work they're doing, and the second, we're going to talk about why reform corrects many of the issues that people have with amnesty international.
Firstly, on that work.
They provide a voice against oppression in a place where there really isn't any other voice.
So, in the status quo, there's no policing power above the level of the state.
Sure, there's international law, but that focuses on large-scale crimes and war for the most part.
We mean that there's little judicial protection for individual citizens when states abuse their power.
There's very little check on these states to act.
Sure, there's ways that the international community can rally around people and try to provide some sort of solvency but again, these are largely in instances of large-scale abuse.
But if you're just an individual person in a state and you're having your rights stripped away from you, and the state simply does not care about anything that you say, any legal argument you make, well, in that instance, there's very little recourse.
One major way this happens is through jailing dissidents or jailing individuals who are potential threats, without providing them with a trial.
A big example of this is china who who is very well-known for jailing people who have spoken up against the current regime, who speaks against the state, and this also happens in almost every single oppressive state in the world.
You be you you do not have a freedom of speech in these areas.
And in the latter case, like putting someone in jail without providing him a trial, you can just see the united states and guantanamo bay.
The state is often corrupt.
It is by no means a perfect judge or jury.
It's just composed of people like you and I, everyday people who have emotions and irrational feelings and who sometimes act impulsively, and who sometimes do not have the best intentions.
And there are often state structures that keep information about unjust jailings, jailings that shouldn't have happened, jailings that occurred simply because someone spoke up against someone in power, jailings that are occurring and holding people in detention for years without any sort of an actual trial.
This information is either kept from the public altogether in these states or it's skewed in such a way to paint the person that's been arrested as someone that clearly must be arrested, someone who is a clear threat.
Amnesty makes these stories known.
They publish information for the public to see not just in the state, but also internationally.
It advocates for these people throughout international borders, across borders, and provides them with a voice on the highest stage, a voice in the international stage when no one else is speaking for them.
It also raises funds to assist these people, to provide them with funding, to provide a defense, to provide for their families, to do these types of things.
They're also, in addition to all of this, a leader in human rights.
They do many things to try and uphold human rights more broadly, to provide to provide resources to people who are, in the status quo, in oppressed states.
So, why do we think reform works?
Let's talk about the two big issues that people have with amnesty.
First, people claim that they have that they do not have adequate reporting, that they've skewed reporting.
Firstly, this is largely overblown by states.
It's in their interest to discredit the reports that amnesty is putting out.
But you can also just have better internal requirements and editorial restrictions.
You can require better sourcing for your stories.
You can require more proofing, more time before these things are put out.
Second, people have talked about corruption in certain payment scandals.
Look, you can remove the existing leadership structure without disbanding the whole organization.
They do so much good work and, even with their scandal in the past, have done valuable, valuable work for the people that are worst off in states, people who the state has chosen that their rights don't matter.
For these reasons, we should not disband amnesty international.