Water fluoridation brings more harm than good.
What's something I think that it's important to recognize that the very top of this debate, is something that may not seem apparent to many people, which is that well water fluoridation may seem ubiquitous, in many european countries in the united states, it is in fact not that common throughout the world.
That most states do not do water fluoridation commonly for their public water supply, and many developed states such as japan also don't use fluoride in their water in any meaningful way.
So we think this is important for focusing the mindset of the debate which is that, water fluoridation is not a necessary part of a healthy life.
It's not entirely necessary to get fluoride for the human body, and in the ways in which we get fluoride, it's most important to get it topically and it's provided in the wide in most societies and in the societies that have water fluoridation, primarily through things like using toothpaste and through other advances in medical treatment and such that ensure that most people do achieve the right amount of fluoride that they should have in the status quo regardless of water fluoridation.
So, with that in mind, we think that water fluoridation brings more harm than good for a few reasons.
Firstly, over-fluoridation.
It is important to recognize that fluoride is just a chemical that you can put into your body, and that, too much of a dosage of that chemical can lead to harms in the body.
We think that this is important to recognize for a few reasons.
Firstly, the children and babies are as they're growing more susceptible to this, and because dosage can't be controlled when public fluoridation happens, we think what's we think that what is likely to and what does occur is that children and infants receive too much fluoride which can has been shown to hurt brain development in some instances, and because of this we think it's important to recognize that water fluoridation is something that can't be monitored in the same way that dosages of fluoride or dosages of any sort of treatment might be able to be monitored, which means that over fluoridation is a harm that happens rather broadly throughout society in places in which water fluoridation occurs.
This is an old practice, it is an outdated practice that doesn't that isn't required and is not a necessity in our modern times due to advances in medical treatment and because of this we think that these the trade off between not being able to control the doses for people, in which this can have actual harms, where adults may not experience these harms, we certainly think that that's a trade off that we're not willing to make.
Furthermore, we think that this steals the people's right to autonomy and to their consent especially in the sense of their bodily autonomy.
Firstly as a democratic polity, we think that what's bad about water fluoridation in the status quo is that people aren't generally informed about the possibilities of water fluoridation.
Firstly, it's rather untested compared to other scientific approaches to medical treatment and this ensures that even if good access, even if good information existed on this, people wouldn't be , that good information does not exist on this and therefore even if it people would not, are not able to access it.
But furthermore, people simply do not access, do not seek out this information because it's not a major issue that people consider in the political sphere.
But this is important because it and it means that without the direct consent of the people, without their informed consent people are having their bodily makeup, their composition, and how they're medically treated, is being determined by the state without them having the full understanding of what's happening to them, and without being able to fully consent to that.
We think that, given that this exists, given that there are not major medical advances that happen to people, that this isn't an overwhelming medical good that's occurring, we think that the lack of consent is an important flaw of water fluoridation.
We think that without this consent, the government doesn't have the right to do any sort of thing to the political body especially something that imposes a breach of an individual's bodily autonomy.
And because of this, we think that water fluoridation oversteps the boundaries of what the government is able to do and in this sense, and the practical pragmatic harms that it brings to people, we think that water fluoridation brings more harm than good.