We should subsidize renewable energy.
So, in this round, we're obviously not going to specify what types of renewable energy we're subsidizing, but we think that we would subsidize both the production and the use of of renewable energy by private actors and by private households.
And we think that renewable energy can be anything from wind to solar to nuclear to , you know, other types of production that don't create this type of fossil fuel dependency.
So, two reasons why we should subsidize renewable energy.
The first is because of global warming, and the second is because it is economically beneficial to do so.
On global warming: we think that it's undeniable that global warming is the biggest threat to humanity's survival.
It is it is expected that in the next fifty years, rising sea levels are going to destroy are going to destroy huge economic urban hubs.
The reason for this is that rising sea levels are often are going to happen.
The rate at which carbon dioxide has been captured in our atmosphere means that we are destined to warm a certain amount moving forward.
This means that with more CO two that's put into the atmosphere, there's further rising sea levels, which increases the scale of the harm to these urban areas because these urban areas, these economic hubs in nations, are empirically built around built on the water.
They were originally port cities and now they're economic hubs.
We think there's also additional harms that come with global warming: for example, extreme weather events and a lack and a lack of seasonal regularity, which leads to harms like a lack of food production.
It means you can't produce you can't produce your agricultural goods in the same ways that you were before.
In addition to the harms that are already coming, we're approaching a tipping point of no return where the atmosphere and the temperatures are going to are going to rise by four degrees celsius over the next one hundred years and put us on a path put us on a path where we really cannot come back from this harm, and you can expect a massive downgrade in quality of life.
We need to care about this, and we need to care about it now.
Waiting another ten or fifteen years to solve this problem or to address this problem, to subsidize and move to renewable energies, is ten years far too late.
Our own survival and the survival of future people who did not choose to come into the world, who did not choose to use fossil fuels, who did who are in no way responsible for the current world that we are creating, we have an obligation to them and we have an obligation to ourselves to protect the only planet that we have, and without moving to renewable energies immediately, there's no way that this can happen.
We think that subsidies are going to work, that people are going to take up the opportunity to use green tech because it is more affordable when it's subsidized.
It's also more efficient than other means of production, like fossil fuels are in the status quo, and that change needs to happen now.
Regardless of global warming, we think that there's an economic boom that comes with renewable energies.
The reason for this is that, as I just said, these energies are more efficient, and they can become even more efficient with more technological growth.
Solar cells become more and more efficient every year, but that doesn't just happen stagnantly.
That doesn't just happen by some sort of law of nature.
It requires jobs and hard work and technological innovation to make these things happen, and that's true across renewable energy fields.
This means a few things.
First, there are more jobs in renewable energy.
If you look at things like mining and oil production, jobs have been on the decline for the last two decades whereas clean tech jobs are on the rise.
Pushing and subsidizing that renewable energy field only means there are more jobs available and more production in the future.
We also think that clean tech becoming more efficient means the cost of energy production goes down, which means even if the industry itself isn't providing a tremendous amount of jobs, it's saving money in all parts of the economy, leading to further production in all sectors, more savings for households, and a better economic more economic health for the people of a state.
Given that global warming is coming, given that it is economically prudent to make this change, we should absolutely subsidize renewable energy.