Television does more harm than good.
We think the comparative in this debate, sense it's hard to imagine a counterfactual without television, is a world in which television plays a much less prominent role, in which people don't spend many hours a day focusing on the television, watching entertainment on TV, if the main media platform for sending entertainment out to the masses was not television, we think that's the world that we're largely talking about.
We don't imagine that television would be eliminated altogether, but this is a debate about weighing the balances of the positive aspects of television, against the negative, and in that eh with that in mind, we have two main arguments about why television does on net more harm than good.
The first is about bad cultural impact.
So, recognize that, the television that we're talking about today is very different from the nascent television, in which you had four channels vying for your attention, and people just weren't normalized to the idea of sitting in front of their TV.
We think that, in the status quo, what you've what you have through television is a few problematic things: first is the rise of twenty four hour media.
We think that the rise of media, as a competitive market in which you constantly need to be producing content, you constantly need to be producing analysis, and it's an an avenue now, in which politicization of media is encouraged, because it encourages you to get viewership.
We think that, all these things compound into a into a society in which the media is largely more politicized, than otherwise would have been without television, because of the profit incentives doing so, and it means that you create a more divisive society on the whole.
When people are constantly tuning into a media that hyperbolizes scenarios that are going on, in order to get views, in order to get attention, in a twenty four hour media market, when people are creating stories, and developing stories, out of non stories, we think it only creates more tension within the state, and creates more anger between individuals of different political views.
We think that, you also get less trust in the news, when people when people see every media outlet, aside their own, as one that's biased, and fake news, and when we and when this happens, we think that you simply get a less informed public, because people don't have sources that they can reliably trust, and reliable sources end up getting demonized.
The second thing is: we think that media, that television in large part, produces vapid content.
You've hundreds of television channels that do nothing but report twenty four hours on one specific thing, whether it be one specific channel, like ESPN or that constantly reports on a sporting event, or its reality TV show networks, or entertainment that, ascribes to the lowest common denominator, so entertainment that exist solely to attract the most views possible.
As a media format, television exists to do that, and we think as such, you get a diluted form of entertainment than you would through niche forms of entertainment, such as books, or movies, or other forms of smaller scale entertainment, that don't require competition amongst hundreds of channels, trying to vie for the most eyes at any given time.
The second thing we want to talk about is physical impact.
So, we think that, it's just it's just true that, prior to television people, spent more time being physically active.
When television became the norm, people spent less time going outside, having physical activity as their main form of entertainment, there are less social clubs that people joined, less communal gathering that people went to, because it's easier to sit in your own home, by yourself or with a couple of family members, and watch television.
It was easier to be entertained through that mean than it was to go through the physical processes of discovering your own entertainment, or finding other groups outside of your own to be entertained.
We think that, a tighter knit social circle, one that doesn't that one that doesn't exist anymore, but existed prior to television, one in which people were more creative, and more physically active, so both more active with their mind, in creating entertainment for themselves, but also more physically healthy, and more physically fit, we think that, this is a world that would have existed, if television had not become prominent, and had not become the norm.
And given that, the content television produces is largely problematic for our culture, and it's certainly a detriment to our health.
We believe that, television does more harm than good.