Cancel the speed limit we think that the only thing that matters in the round, the most important issue in this round, is that of safety.
What makes people safer and what is the government willing and incapable of doing in order to ensure public safety.
So that's what our argument is going to be about today.
It's gonna be one major argument about safety but we think it's most important.
So on safety, we think that speed limits are empirically a method of stopping people from driving recklessly and reckless driving is associated with faster speeds.
Going faster means that you have less time to react to some changes on the road and these are changes that can lead to incredibly deadly accidents for example, if there's a sudden stop ahead of you and you don't have time to react to that stop.
If someone merges into your lane dramatically or if there's another reckless driver around you, you're less able to react to that reckless to that person who's driving recklessly if you yourself are speeding or and this is this isn't just speeding laws on highways but also in pedestrian areas.
If you're in a pedestrian area someone could easily jump in front of you whether it's a child running into the street to get something or it's someone just walking down the street going for their daily walk.
Anyone can jump in front of you and any time you drive around the curve you could be in danger of hitting someone if you don't go if you go above certain speeds on these roads.
This is why there are normal benchmarks across the world and in places like america, where you can't go above say thirty miles an hour when you're in a residential area.
It's because in these areas if you're driving faster than that you're putting other people at a dramatically higher risk of being hurt and recognize that some roads are just windy, they're curvy and at certain speeds you cannot control what you're doing in your car.
You can't control the car's turning well enough to be able to protect yourself.
So we think that these are very reasonable limits that are set by current speed limit laws and we think that the government is justified in setting this limit.
We think that individual safety and well being are central for the government to protect.
If the government exists for any purpose it's to uphold bodily autonomy in public safety.
We think that reasonable limits can be set.
This does not meaningful inhibit anyone's self expression and their well being in other regards when you set these these speed limit laws.
So we don't see what the real trade-off is here.
Maybe you won't get to your destination is quickly but we think that when the trade-off is insuring more lives are saved, even if thousands of people are delayed by hours at a time, we think saving even one life would be worth it and of course if there's an instance when someone is justifiably breaking the speeding law, if someone needs to get to the hospital for an emergency or they have to get somewhere incredibly quickly for good reason, there's always discretion in courts discretion by judges as to whether or not they're going to write tickets or police officers who choose not to give out these tickets all the time.
Okay finally, we think that something the government would bring up is that it doesn't matter that you have speed limit laws because they don't actually stop people from speeding, that people break these laws all the time.
Just because it is the case that people break these laws all the time, does not mean that they are not deterrent to some regard.
For example in the united states, it is a degree higher of punishment if you go more than twenty miles over the speed limit than if you go ten to twenty miles or one to ten miles over the speed limit.
So when you have a speed limit set even if it means that most people are going to be willing to break that speed limit and go ten miles over the speed limit it does stop people from going incredibly quickly down these highways, incredibly quickly down these roads, breaking these speeds by enormous margins because people don't want to get punished to that greater extent.
So even if it's not deterrent in the sense that people are willing to break the law, we think it's deterrent in the sense that it keeps people from doing the most reckless things on the road and these are the things that are going to harm people not just the people driving and the people in the cars but civilians outside of those cars.
For these reasons, we should not cancel the speed limit.