We should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.
So, in this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we don't think you should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
The first is that we think that this is a principally unjust ban.
So, recognize that this is a ban that is only targeting a small group of people, it's a small subset of people and singling them out to restrict their freedom, and the justification that's being used for this is that these people cannot make decisions for theirselves.
They're not rational actors, and they can't internalize the types of long-term implications of piercings and tattoos.
But this type of paternalism needs to be justified in some sort of other way, because people make decisions that aren't that will likely go in a way that they don't want them to go.
We have foresight, we can see that people oftentimes make bad decisions for themselves, and we don't think that age is an appropriate barrier for when you can fully restrict this type of action.
We think that the state fundamentally exists in order to maximize freedom for its constituents, and at the end of the day, these minors are constituents just like anyone else.
Just because they don't have voting rights, just because they aren't at a certain age, doesn't mean that they can't that they aren't rational to an extent, that they don't recognize that things like piercings and tattoos can be something that you have to deal with long term.
It can have implications.
It's not like they don't have adults around them all the time that are telling them the to deal with the repercussions of their actions.
And given that this is the case, we don't think it is necessary, nor do we think that is just, to ban these things only for minors.
We think that age is almost always just a proxy for something else.
And in this case, it is clearly that.
It's a proxy for the reasonable foresight that we think is necessary in order for someone to meaningfully consent to these types of things, but obviously there are people that are of similar ages that have a different amount of maturity.
They have a different capacity to make these decisions.
And, clearly, age is not an ideal proxy for this type of thing, because there are certainly people that are older than eighteen that probably aren't able to make responsible decisions and people that are younger than eighteen that are that are much more capable of making these decisions.
We think that using something arbitrary like age is always going to be unjust and is lazy governance in exchange for some sort of a better ban.
But even if you think age is important, we think parental autonomy should take over here.
We think that parents are always going to know their children better than the government.
They're always going to have more inside information and they're going to have a special tie to their child, which means that they have their child's best interest in mind.
We think that parents take on the burden and responsibility of children.
It's a lot of work to be a parent.
It's a lot of responsibility.
It's a high cost.
And given that this is the case, we think that parents should have the right to allow what they see fit, within reason, of course, if it's not going to have some sort of long-term harm on the child, and they should be able to raise the child in a way that they think is best.
Laws already exist requiring parental consent for minors in order to get a piercing or a tattoo.
You can't just be a fourteen-year-old and walk into a tattoo parlor and get a tattoo.
You need to have parental permission to do these types of things.
And frankly, we think that the long-term impact of piercings and tattoos is overblown.
These things just aren't that bad.
They can be removed.
Over enough time, a piercing is going to heal.
This isn't a life-altering decision, it's it's just something that appears radical because of the stigmatization around these two particular things in the past.
We think that parents can make the call for their children, and they've earned the right by taking on the burden of child-rearing to make those decisions.
Given that age is an obviously imperfect proxy for responsibility, parents should have the control here, and a ban simply is not necessary.
For these reasons, we should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.