We should not ban alcoholic beverages.
The first thing that we would say is that to ban alcohol beverages would be an unjust ban an unjust use of the state apparatus.
So why is this the case?
We would say that broadly speaking the state is an unjust actor.
The state is not able to gain consent from the people in a robust way, in a way that ensures that people really do want to be living under the laws that they are living under, in a way that they consent to the leaders that they have and yes, you can have proxies for this like voting and paying taxes and serving on juries all these types of things are simply proxies and are not a meaningful mechanism for consent.
The government therefore the government can only make itself just by maximizing freedom, by creating laws that people would consent to if there was a robust system of consent available to them.
We think that this ban goes far beyond those boundaries and does much more to limit the freedom of citizens to go much further in taking away rights that people would want to have if they could consent than it does than it does to be justified.
We think in order for a ban to be justified a few things need to be the case.
Either there needs to be some sort of asymmetry of information, that if the government doesn't step in people are going to be harmed because they don't have information about what's being banned.
That is not the case with alcoholic beverages.
People know about the risks of drinking alcohol.
They know about the long term risks.
They know about the short term risks of being inebriated and there are numerous public service campaigns that speak on the harms of alcoholism.
There otherwise there could be some sort of bad externality.
There could be some sort of direct harm to the public that is gained when people drink alcohol but you can regulate those types of externalities when it comes to alcohol for example, when someone is drunk driving that is obviously a negative externality.
That's a harm that can be done but it's not an intrinsic part of alcoholic beverages that people need to drive drunk and therefore, you can simply regulate and make limits on those types of activities.
We think that this is a much more reasonable form of a ban, a much reasonable form of legislation as compared to this type of blanket ban that would restrict the freedoms of all people to have alcohol if they choose to do so and finally, there may be some sort of direct harm to alcohol that people simply should not be able to do because it puts their life at too high of a risk but we would say that because the direct harm is only on the individual, that the individual should be able to make that choice for themselves.
Because there's education about alcohol available, because there's no there's no necessary third party externalities from drinking alcohol, we think that people should be able to make the decision for themselves on whether or not they want to take on the risk that alcohol can provide to them.
On top of all of that, there would be a huge market harm if you were to ban alcoholic beverages all of a sudden.
There's a massive business surrounding alcohol that would cost thousands of jobs and millions and billions of dollars in the economy were it to suddenly be banned.
So taking this type of action is not simply a matter of pushing some sort of ethical code on to citizens, it also it's also a measure that would have drastic impacts on the economy that we certainly don't think are worth it.
Given that we think prohibition is more likely to fail than it is to succeed.
We've seen prohibition be attempted with alcohol in the past and it led to violence.
It led to the rise of organized crime and it failed entirely to prevent alcohol from flooding into our streets.
We think that that is almost certainly going to happen again if it were to be instituted today, if prohibition were to rise today and you can see this with the prohibition that currently exists on drugs with the war on drugs.
People still are going to want their vices.
People are still going to want something that allows them to escape their current day to day and we think organized crime is always going to be willing to provide it especially because prohibition allows those crime syndicates to raise prices and makes businesses that already exist more lucrative.
The market for alcohol isn't going to suddenly disappear.
The multi-billion dollar market is still going to exist.
This type of prohibition is just going to lead to more organized crime stepping in and more violence surrounding alcohol.
On top of all that, the ban itself is unjust and for these reasons, we should not ban alcoholic beverages.