We should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.
So, firstly, we think that the policy would address things specifically like drugs and gun usage and violence, ensuring that images of the these things wouldn't be allowed on school property.
And, of course, if these things were ever found on school property, on someone's person, a weapon or drugs of any kind, they would be immediately suspended.
As far as the punishment that we think is appropriate, we think it would be a sliding scale based on, firstly, the degree that the offense was of, and secondly, whether or not it was a multi-time offender.
So if someone does something, like bring drug paraphernalia into a school, the first time they may receive a two-week suspension, the second time they may receive a longer suspension.
Finally, we think that if this is repeated offenses, expulsion is probably necessary.
We think that we don't want to include things that are that are not currently illegal in the status quo, because we think in those areas there should be discretion.
But recognize that in most of these instances, these types of things, the types of things that are promoted, whether it's by a tee shirt that promotes drug usage or images of violence and images of gun usage, we think it promotes these types of things on school property, these types of illegal things.
And as the school is an arm of the state, has an obligation to introduce individuals, specifically young people, to the norms of the state, to what is acceptable within the public sphere, we think that it's clear that the schools have an obligation to set a very firm message by introducing zero tolerance policies in such a way that it shows students, at a very young age, introduces them to those cultural norms that these things are generally not acceptable.
We think that certain things warrant this high level of scrutiny, because that aside from the fact that there's messaging that schools do, we think that it's also important because you want to ensure that there is a safe environment for the students that are learning there.
We think that the educational system is, first and foremost, meant to educate the young people that go through it and that if you don't provide them with a safe and non-hostile learning environment, we think that it's very difficult for individuals to achieve that goal, to do what they're meant to do when they go to these school systems.
We think that being surrounded by things like drugs and guns is something that is very clearly going to be impeding to their progress, to the individual's progress, within these school systems.
And given that this is the case, we think that you need to ensure that if these things ever show up, ever emerge in the school system, that they're immediately stamped out.
We also think that zero tolerance policies are more likely to deter people from doing these types of things.
We think that if it's the we think it's unlikely that most people are going to bring in things like guns to a school anyway, but we think it's possible that people will go into a school with drugs and oftentimes, they may go into schools with images of these things.
We think that if you send this message, you're far more likely to deter people, to ensure that these types of incidents that otherwise probably would have been punished anyway don't happen in the first place, which means that you don't need to take more punishment measures against more individuals.
It's a way of acting before these types of harms are done to ensure that people have the most safe and welcoming experience within the schools that they're found, within the schools that they find themselves.
We think that it's incredibly important that the students have this understanding and the safety and that they're deterred from doing these things.
We think, finally, that the safety of these students outweighs, so even if you think that there's some sort of harshness to these policies, that context is important, we think that by introducing these types of very stiff penalties, you're less likely to have the very rare occasions in which individuals may do things that could cause violence or could cause damage in these schools.
We think that by sending these messages you're less likely in the even if in it's in a minute set of instances, the harm that could be done in those instances is incredibly problematic.
We think that you'd rather take every step possible to divert those types of harms, especially in the instances of drugs and guns.
For these reasons, we should adopt zero tolerance policies in schools.