Social media does more good than harm.
To start this debate we want to focus especially on I think the aspects of social media that in the past year especially with the rise of the alt-right and the creation of bubbles on facebook, the things that have been highlighted as negative.
We want to start by talking about why those things are not necessarily a big problem or a unique problem with social media.
Recognize that social media doesn't create the spheres of groups that we interact with.
It doesn't lead us to have any sort of particular bad behavior.
It doesn't teach us to behave in particular ways.
Social media is an aggregate of individuals who would like to interact in the same social sphere.
Now given that this is the case, we recognize that bubbles like political bubbles and ideological bubbles become more explicit and possibly more rigid, and you recognize that the anonymity of the internet allows for increased bullying and things like that but we're not talking about the internet broadly.
We're talking about social media and we don't think that these things are any different than how things would be without social media.
We think that individuals tend to aggregate with those that have similar ideologies to them and this is why we use explicit bubbles on social media because in real life our interactions become this way through the people that we choose to associate with, and bullying and things like that is actually not very anonymous on social media rather if you bully someone on facebook yes people it's easier for people to bandwagon on one individual and bully them in a mobile setting or an online setting, but it's not anonymous and we think that bullying and things like this have always happened amongst youth in our society and we don't think that social media has made that explicitly worse maybe the maybe the anonymity of the internet has but that's a distant discussion.
So given that that is the case, now that that's out of the way, I'm going to explain to you why the unique benefits of social media do more good than harm.
So firstly, it spreads ideas in a number of ways.
First, we think you get expanded discourse.
Social media has made it not only easier to quickly communicate with individuals through messenger and things like this, but also to spread political and ideological platforms online.
It's become much easier to share news information that otherwise would have been drowned out.
It's become much easier to share political and other ideological beliefs with those around you, and the reason for this is that you don't need to be in a particular platform in order to share those beliefs having a social media account gives you a platform in and of itself.
Having a wall on facebook or having a twitter account that allows you to share your views without being prompted means that the communication of those views becomes much easier.
Without social media in order to share say, your political beliefs, we think that you need to have some sort of platform that allows you to do that.
We think that when your normal in real life interactions people generally don't want to talk about those things.
They think that it's awkward.
They think that you're forcing it on individuals, but social media gives you a unique place where you can say what you believe without being prompted because that's the whole point of social media.
More importantly, I think you actually get better access to news.
I think that in the status quo or prior to social media it was much more difficult to get the spread of news from sources that traditionally aren't used, from sources outside of the twenty four hour news cycle, but we think that blogs and small new sites actually do a lot of good.
More localized news is able to get picked up, but also more importantly, nietzche news communities can expand.
Look at for example five thirty eight which is a data driven community for news reporting.
This gains markedly more popularity when it's allowed to spread its news on social media when people are able to communicate on social media, and while yes, this also means that sites like breitbart news are able to spread more rapidly.
We think that this balances out in so far as the bulk amount of news that is available and the rapid pace at which it is able to be spread means that people are on balance more generally educated about daily occurrences along with the fact that people are able to feel more socially connected to a wider range of individuals.
We think that without social media people are often going to be secluded to the ten or fifteen closest friends they have, and while social media doesn't allow you to have deep relationships with every single person you're connected with, the ability to have some sort of connection with those individuals to see what's on their feed or to be able to communicate with them otherwise, we think is good for human flourishing.
It allows people to feel more socially connected which we think leads to better self actualization.
On top of the fact that you get a better spread of ideas in the news and for those reasons we think that for its unique good social media do more good than harm.