We should end daylight saving time.
We think that when daylight saving times were invented, it was for a time that is long be gone.
Our own time today.
These things were instituted, for example, to ensure that farmers could work at times, in which the daylight was out, and so in a largely agrarian society, it was important for farmers to be able to work, because there wasn't light to work during the night, and you have to adjust for these things, because commerce require daylight in order to be effective, and because heating and using electricity at night was much more expensive, so marginal increases in use, so using electricity more at night, so that you could run a business, had a much higher impact than it does today, in which electricity consumption, at least at the margins, isn't all that important.
We think that daylight saving time is something that was created for a time, that simply is not a parallel to what we're experiencing now.
And because of this, we do not think that it is useful for modern society, and in fact we think it is quite harmful.
So, we're going to talk about the the ways in which daylight saving time is majorly disruptive, and that is why we think that it should be ended.
So, firstly, every human being behaves based on a circadian rhythm, that is developed in their body, based on when they're awake, and when they're asleep.
The same circadian rhythm is what wakes you up in the morning without an alarm, is what causes you to become tired at roughly the same times, if you have a healthy sleeping pattern.
Well, the problem with this is that daylight saving time disrupts the circadian rhythm, it forces individuals to adjust, whether it's to go to sleep an hour earlier, or to wake up an hour earlier, or what have you.
And large disruptions in the circadian rhythm, such as having one fewer hours to sleep than you're used to, or having one more hour to sleep, can cause real effects in the following days, and what this accumulates to is that, in the workforce, people are much less productive in the days following daylight saving time, a time switch.
What this what this looks like is people that were spending more time browsing the internet than doing actual work, it results in them getting there later at work, and it can accumulate to much higher difficulty, such as an increase in driving accidents the day following daylight saving time, because people are more likely to be asleep.
These these have real ramifications, both in the fact that people are more likely to be harmed, or killed in a traffic accident, people are more likely to have a heart attack, or be or be exposed to increasingly stressful situations, and the economic impact.
This is not minute.
Studies show that, in the united states alone, daylight saving time could have an approximately five hundred million dollars cost on the US economy.
Now, this is a marginal amount compared to the GDP of the united states, but recognize that this is just one day, one hour, one minor switch, that, because there are because the purposes of this switch are so outdated, there are no tangible gains to keeping the system in place.
The whole reason the system continues to be in place is because it is our tradition, it's what we've always done, and it's much easier to continue doing things than to change them.
But, recognize that not only is daylight saving time incredibly harmful to productivity, but it's also something that's unpopular.
It's what leads to children going out at the break of dawn to go get a school bus, and it leads to people waking up when it's still dark outside.
People don't like daylight saving time, they don't like the fact that they are not living their lives in accordance when when the sun is up, and when the sun is down, and daylight saving time results in a situation in which that is the case.
The system itself is wildly unpopular, it has only detriments at this point, because the purposes of the system are no longer something that we need to be concerned with as a society.
And for all these reasons, we should end daylight saving times.