We should increase the fuel tax.
The way that we're going to do this and the way that we're going to structure this we think is very straightforward.
For all fossil fuels no matter what type of fossil fuel they are, no matter where they come from, at the point of sale of that fossil fuel we're going to put a tax on the fuel itself which means even if you don't use it at any point you're going to be taxed at a higher rate than you are currently in order to use it.
We'd say that the number of increase in this fuel tax is not you know especially relevant but we're going to say it will be a substantial increase in the fuel tax upwards of fifteen, twenty percent.
A very high increase in that tax.
Two reasons why we think this is so crucial.
The first is about global warming and the second is about market fairness.
On global warming, we would say that global warming is the largest threat that humanity faces in this day and age and that if we do not stop using fossil fuels at the rate we are currently using them we will be in a situation in which massive flooding occurs, in which global ice caps shrink, in which there are more and more of the disastrous weather events that we are already seeing occur in our in the form of hurricanes, in the form of tornadoes, in the form of mud slides, all of these things that are caused by increasing global temperatures and by global warming that is largely directed and largely the side effect of fossil fuel usage.
We would say that having this type of tax is a direct way of disincentivizing using fossil fuels.
If I need to pay more money to drive my car to work to fill up the tank to drive my car to work each and every day then I'm probably more likely to use public transportation where I don't have to pay the successive tax.
If I don't if if there are viable alternatives that exist and these types of fossil fuels become dramatically more expensive, most people, we would say, would be willing to shift their behavior in a way that can actually dramatically decrease the amount of fossil fuels we're using in the status quo.
We don't care about the fossil fuel industries.
We don't care about the fact that people are often dependent on these fossil fuels for jobs and for employment all that stuff.
If we do not stop the behavior we're doing now most coastal cities will be underground in a hundred years.
The earth will no longer be as habitable as it is now.
We will leave a situation in a planet that our children will have to pick up the trash for afterwards.
We do not think that that is a just situation to leave for our children.
We do not think that the suffering that is caused by the flooding, the droughts, the horrible weather events, the disastrous natural disasters that are coming in are status quo we don't think that this is worth any sort of job increase and this fuel tax will go a long way in tackling our use of fossil fuels but even if you don't care about any of that, it's impossible to ignore that there is a negative externality that is coming from fossil fuels.
That there is a deterioration of our environment whether it be oil spills that occasionally happen, whether it be the pollution of our water supply, whether it be the harms that come from fracking and mining for coal.
All of these things are negative externalities but these negative externalities are not being paid for at the price point.
What this means is in the status quo in the field of providing energy fossil fuels are at a market advantage in an unfair market advantage that other types of fuel and other types of of electricity and other types of energy do not have.
Given that this is the case, we think that increasing the fuel tax makes it these markets more fair and more free.
Means that you create a more competitive market where given that someone needs to pay for those spills, someone needs to pay for those negative externalities of fossil fuels.
We think it is best to make the producers pay for it.
To make the consumers pay for it.
Rather than those that are left behind having to clean up after them and the positive benefit of this is that you get a more free market.
A market in which solar and wind and nuclear become more competitive on the energy market with fossil fuels.
On top of that, we think that it is just clear that global warming is here.
It is happening now and if we do not take steps like increasing the fuel tax in order to prevent people from using more fossil fuels we believe we will regret it in the long term.
For these reasons, we should increase fuel tax.