We should not raise the retirement age.
Opponents of proponents of raising the retirement age often cite the fact that human lives are becoming longer and because of this we need to account for that and how economics and how people are going to deploy themselves economically and what they're going to be able to do, how much leisure time in retirement time they're going to be given, and point to the fact that people used to have less retirement as less time to retire as a reason that in the current day that should be the case.
We think that this is a fundamental fallacy and is ought fallacy, and we're going to explain why in the current labor market it's unfair to make people work so long and why this ultimately is a market inefficiency.
And secondly, we're gonna talk about the purpose of peoples' retirement, the purpose of life.
Okay, so firstly, we think that the labor market is essentially unfair to the elderly.
There's a few reasons for this.
The first is that the elderly lacks modern specialization, which means that people that were trained and specialized in certain departments and certain skills twenty, thirty, forty years ago lack the modern skills that are necessary in a in this particular economic climate.
The technological advancements that have occurred, the differentiation and particular specialization in new industries, all these things are things that the elderly, because they've been working in different fields that are entirely different from ones that are prominent now, these are skills that they lack and its very costly to try and train people for these skills, especially when these people are at an older age and their already a learning curve behind the peer behind people that are say graduating now who already have a particular specialization and don't require additional training.
Especially when these people, these older people, are not going to be able to work as long at your company so you can't get as much development as as much progress as you would out of someone that is younger.
So because they lack specialization, many of the best jobs in the economy are entirely out of the range of people who would otherwise be at the retirement age now.
The second reason is that the elderly broadly lack the same physical capabilities as younger people, which means that, as a category, they're less able to do manual labor.
So in things that they may have been specialized in the past such as manufacturing jobs, those jobs one, are already being cut to and tremendous amount which means there's more competition for those jobs than ever.
But two, that their bodies, their physical capabilities, simply aren't as prepared to do those physically demanding labor jobs whether it's manufacturing, or it's working in like coal mining, or something like like a more manual physical job.
We think that these people are fundamentally excluded from being able to participate in those labor markets, which means in addition the there are other restrictions that exist even when these problems don't occur.
For example, people don't want to companies don't want to pay out pension and retirement benefits to people that they've only spent so long in their company, they don't want to train them again.
All these are issues.
What this means is that only the worst jobs in the economy exists for these people which means things like menial labor jobs, minimum wage jobs that don't require much training, that don't require much specialization, but is also a departure in a and a departure from what they've been doing for their entire lives, from the jobs they've been specialized to in the past, and we think that people often feel demeaned by having to go through this process, especially when the alternative is giving more social funds, is raising the tax for social security, which would allow for a better life for these people that have already put so much into the labor pool, that have already contributed there part into society.
And that's the final thing we're going to talk about, is the purpose of life.
We think that given that these people often, for the vast majority of these people, have spent their time contributing to the community both economically and socially building this foundation for the world that we live in today.
We think that this is the case and that because of this, we think that people should be allowed to express their freedom to pursue new interests.
That the bedrock or that the foundation has been laid and that they are the support but that they don't need to be exploited in the same economic sense that people do in the status quo, that people who are more able to work, people who are specialized, people who are more tuned the economic demands of the status quo are able to work because they allow us to perpetuate more progress in our society.
Because these people have put in their time and should be allowed to pursue interests as they desire and because it's simply inefficient for them to be working, we believe that we should not raise the retirement age.