We should prohibit corporal punishment.
So, in this debate, we think we're primarily talking about the corporal punishment of children, but I just want to quickly comment on the use of corporal punishment in jails, any why we think that is simply out of the question.
We think that any sort of physical harm done onto a prisoner would clearly violate international treaties, such as the treatment of POW's, and other type of individuals, and we think that extends beyond prisoners of war, but to all humans.
We think it violates the geneva convention, and most importantly, we think it amounts to cruel and unusual punishment.
We think in any western legal system this is clearly not acceptable.
So, we're going to focus primarily on children.
So, firstly, a model about how this is going to work, we think for a first time offense it would simply be some sort of a fine, or a social worker would come and interact with the family, have a discussion with them, explain why this is a problem, and there'd be a sliding scale, so that eventually, if corporal punishment was repeatedly done to a child, that child would be removed from the home, and the parents could be arrested, put in jail, things like this.
Okay, two main arguments, the first is why corporal punishment is cruel, and the second is why it's ineffective.
So, we are going to make the bold claim that children don't deserve to receive pain for their misbehavior.
We think that when children are misbehaving, it's often because they don't understand that their actions are problematic, or for a variety of other developmental reasons, maybe they want to receive attention from parents, that aren't giving them attention, maybe they don't know how to properly express their emotions, and how they're feeling, these are all things that are normal parts of childhood, and normal parts of the developmental process, and we simply think that it is improper for a parent to harm a child, because of their expression of normal developmental stages of growing up.
But more importantly, we think that this reinforces cycles of violence, that repeat throughout generations.
If a parent is going to harm a child, is going to spank a child, or hit a child, or anything like that, that is more likely to cause that child, when they grow up, to do the same thing to their children, because that is how they learn to punish, that's how they learned about the role of a parent, from their parent, and therefore when they enter that role, they're more likely to repeat that.
And finally, we think that children are likely to experience mental trauma when they receive corporal punishment, because they have an association between their care giver and pain, that makes it difficult for them to reconcile those two ideas.
So, we think that it's simply breaks down the role of the parent, and is a cruel way to treat a child.
But secondly, we think it's also just massively ineffective.
So, studies on child development, and how children learn to behave, show that positive reinforcement is immensely more effective, in teaching children how they should and should not behave, than negative reinforcement.
And the reason for this is that, positive reinforcement is something that becomes deeply ingrained into a child, whereas negative reinforcement tends to be a band aid solution.
If you say to a child: don't do that, don't do that, they don't have an understanding of how they're supposed to behave, they just have a vague understanding of what they're doing wrong, but if they don't get any sort of recorrect, if they don't have any sort of direction, as to how they're supposed to correct for what they've done in the past, they result in a situation, in which it's simply a short term solution, and they go back to their same behavior that resulted in them being harmed, receiving corporal punishment in the first place.
We think that the whole purpose of punishment for children is to teach them how to behave in the future, and given that corporal punishment is ineffective, this is simply a means of harming a child without the gains that should go along with it.
Because corporal punishment is cruel, and because it's an effective, we should prohibit corporal punishment.