We should not limit the use of birth control.
We think when we're talking about limiting the use of birth control, certain things that could apply is not allowing children under the age of eighteen to get birth control without parental consent or parental permission, restricting certain types of birth control, restricting things like abortion.
We think that under any sort of definition of limiting birth control at a regulatory level that this is certainly unjust, and we think that as a personal choice, people should be using birth control in most sexual interaction.
So, first, let's talk about responsible sex.
Recognize that despite the fact that many people wish it were not the case, many people are going to have premarital sex and many people are going to have sex for reasons that aren't just reproduction.
This is how human beings are wired.
It's our bodily drives, but it's also how our societies are wired.
It's a way of connecting with under individuals and it's something that is going to happen.
Given that this is the case, we think that widespread birth control is the best way of of preventing unwanted pregnancy.
If people are going to have these sexual encounters regardless of whether or not birth control is available to them, we think that it is best to have that as a resource because when someone has an unwanted pregnancy, there are no positive outcomes from that.
Certainly, the children can be born and you can have a positive life, but in the in the immediate future, the vast majority of these cases don't result in positive outcomes.
Either the child is born and the parent is unready to raise that child, and it's a struggle for both the parent and the child, or there's an abortion which is something that is much more politically unsavory than allowing something like the use of condoms or birth control other types of birth control.
So we think that responsible sex dictates that people are able to use birth control and that, as a regulatory capacity, we don't limit people's access to these things, even even people who are under the age of eighteen are actively engaging in sex, and they're actively exploring their sexual lives and their sexual personalities.
And we think that, as that's the case, birth control is preferable to having people who are underage who are having unwanted pregnancies.
We also think that birth control allows for more bodily control.
We think that at a fundamental level, the state should be trying to promote individual autonomy and individual freedom.
We think that the state exists primarily to promote these things because without the state, people wouldn't have the ability to access those freedoms.
There would be a constant threat of being undermined by outside actors and so, we think that the best use of personal autonomy, the best use of bodily control, is to be able to have control over your sex life.
We think that the government doing something like limiting the use of birth control is something that undermines someone's ability to fully express their bodily control, to fully express their autonomy in an instance where it's simply not the case that people it's simply not the case that people cannot make reasoned choices and where people are being harmed by these types of actions.
There's no third-party harm that's accruing from two people interacting in a in a consensual sexual encounter, but there is harm that can be accrued if you strip those people from the ability to have birth control and now suddenly there's unwanted there's an unwanted child, and in many cases birth control also prevents the spread of STDs.
We think that, first, there's no positive benefit of undermining people's ability to have sex.
Sex is not a scourge on society.
It's not something that is dastardly or something that needs to be restrained, but rather it's a personal expression and a free choice that someone can make.
Given that that's the case, we think that people should be able to make that choice in the most responsible way possible.
And the most responsible way of having recreational sex is to use birth control.
For these reasons, we should not limit the use of birth control.