Immigration to the united states brings more harm than good.
What's important to recognize is that while many proponents of immigration in the status quo talk about the cultural diversity in the united states, the sharing of information and the sharing of new ideas that comes with an immigration wave, what we think is important to recognize is that in modern society it is unnecessary to have immigration to have a sharing of diverse cultures.
We think that while people being implanted in communities allows you to get in depth of cultural understanding, we think that the united states is fairly diverse in the status quo and we're gonna talk about later , the trade offs the economic trade offs that come with immigration that ensure that this diversity, this depth of diversity isn't entirely worth it, but more importantly the diversity that you seek this exchanging of ideas, of different cultural ideas, these things happen in a global sphere that exists in the status quo.
Whether it's interaction between different political groups within between states or between governments themselves, interactions of global entities and global corporations, these types of things that share ideas, or the internet which allows for the sharing of ideas no matter the borders that exist.
We think that the these types of cultural gains are often overblown the status quo.
So why do we think that immigration has harms generally?
We wanna talk primarily about economic economic losses that come from immigration and there are a few of them.
Firstly, recognize that oftentimes when immigrants are coming to the united states, they're coming with a lack of education or more importantly a lack of foundation in the state which ensures that they need some assistance from the united states mortgage transfer any sort of skills that they have or to gain skill set.
This has a few problems: firstly it drains some social resources which we think could be better spent and should be prioritized by the state to go to those that are already citizens of the state.
The reason for this is that we think the citizens have a prior claim to these resources because they pay taxes in a way that these other that immigrants haven't done, because they've given to the state over a long period of time, something that should be respected as citizens rather than just being a human of the world.
So we think that welfare is one of these things that is deserved to the people within a state, specifically to citizens within a state.
More importantly we think that there's a job trade off that comes when immigrants come in whether they're coming from higher education backgrounds or lower education backgrounds.
We think it creates an increased competition for jobs which we think leads to lower domestic job growth in the sense that we think that citizens are less likely to be employed in the long run or to be gainfully employed when they need to compete with an inflow of immigrants for jobs.
Even when they're not undercutting labor labor prices, we're talking specifically about legal immigration, what we think is often a problem is that because there is an increase in labor wages themselves end up going down because employers know they can pay less because there are more people in the market that are willing to take jobs that exist.
And because of this we think that the entire boat, even for individuals who have jobs, who aren't impacted by immigration we think the whole boat of how people are getting paid goes down and it lowers what americans, what citizens are able to make in the status quo, which we think is a harm that isn't worth the depth of cultural diversity that comes.
We think that this often we think that this is going to be this outweighs the cultural diversity because of what we explained already, that you can get this type of cultural diversity in a number of ways and it's often symbiotic at this point because the globalized world that we live in.
We don't think that the state should be giving the resources to immigrants though they will need to do so because of the lack of foundation that immigrants often come to the united states with.
And given that this is the case, we think it's important that the united states prioritize its own citizens and in doing so needs to prioritize prioritize the economic interest of those citizens which we think is massively at risk due to immigration to the united states.
And for that reason we think that on balance, immigration to the united states brings more harm than good.