We should not abolish standardized testing.
So to be clear in this round, we're not saying necessarily that we're in favor of the status quo exactly how standardized testing is done, but we think that standardized testing is a generally useful tool to have for government, and we're going to explain why.
The first reason we shouldn't abolish standardized testing is that standardized measurement is useful for three reasons.
First, standardized testing allows you to track school performance.
So if you have standardized tests and you give them to multiple schools, you can see trends in schools over a long period of time, longitudinal trends as well as comparative trends between schools, to see which schools historically have underperformed and which schools are starting to underperform relative to their historical standards.
This allows you to to start to investigate the causes for these things much sooner than when they start to get when things start to gradually go downhill and start to degrade even more.
It allows you to see clearly where schools are failing and do things like pour more resources into them.
It allows you to identify problem areas in those schools and see where changes may need to be made.
Secondly, it also is it also allows you to track child performance.
On an individual level, standardized testing is good because it allows you to put children in certain fields, in certain levels of academic rigor that are that are accurate for what they are currently capable of doing.
We think that the united states is a little too rigid in how it puts children into grades based on their age, but in theory standardized testing could be used as a tool to see, as one tool of many, to see what level students actually should be at.
But more important, in even in the way it's used in the status quo, it allows you to see what areas the children aren't performing as well as.
It allows you to see where these children can improve and what they need to improve upon.
It allows you to target those certain things so that they can be prepared to move on to the next grade level, move on to the next challenge in their academic life.
And finally, it ensures that certain minimums are met.
So, we don't think that teachers should have to teach incredibly rigid curricula across all schools in the country, but we do certainly think that there are some standards, some minimum standards, that all children should be able to do, basic arithmetic, basic reading and writing, that is that is , you know, set at a certain level based on how far along in the academic process you are.
We think that these things are certainly something that we should be measuring for because if people aren't hitting those standards, they're much less likely to be successful in the future.
If they're already so far behind when they hit ninth grade, tenth grade, it's unlikely they'll catch up by the time they hit twelfth grade, and you need to recognize these things now so you can correct for them.
Finally, we think the harms of standardized testing are easily mitigated.
First, you shouldn't tie entire school funding programs to these tests.
Obviously, this is an unfair metric and something that is only going to sink schools that are already underfunded even further into underfunding.
Don't do that.
Second, don't tie a single round of bad testing to teacher jobs.
This ensures that teachers know that, in the long term, if their trends are improving, if the students that they have are doing better each year, or that they're getting better as a teacher and the students aren't getting worse each year, then the teacher doesn't have to worry about job security and can focus on teaching.
And finally, don't have dozens of tests every year that force teachers to have a standardized and rigid curriculum.
You don't need more than one standardized test or possibly two standardized tests a year to get the metrics and to get the measurements that you want to have as a society.
And this way, you still have plenty of time in school courses for teachers to expand upon the curriculum that's been set for them and to learn, based on who their students are, what lessons are best to intrigue their educational drive, to intrigue these students moving forward.
These teachers have the most information about these students and how they learn and should be able to set curriculum appropriately.
So if you take these steps, we think you mitigate most of the harms of standardized testing and you maintain the benefits.
For these reasons, we should not abolish standardized tests.