We should not abolish standardized testing.
To be clear on this debate, we don't think that we need to defend the way that standardized testing is done exactly as it is in the status quo.
For example, we think that for instance the amount of money and aid given to a school or federal money given to a school or local money that's given to a school is often time determined by standardized test scores.
We don't think that funding necessarily needs to be tied in the same way to these test scores.
We're talking broadly about what we think standardized tests are a benefit for the school system and are a benefit for society.
So, we have two main arguments.
The first is that they are good metric for determining both growth and how prepared someone is to graduate.
And secondly, we're going to talk about why you need to have some sort of basic standards that can be common across school curriculum, and why standardized tests are good for enforcing that.
So firstly, on a metric.
We think that this allows you to measure particular things that are positive or lead to our better understanding of how we can improve the educational system and to see when it is and is not working.
So firstly, we think that when you have standardized testing, because these are similar tests over a number of years, you can look to see how schools are progressing over a number of years.
So for example you can see the trajectory of test scores over a period of ten years and see whether or not a school is getting better or getting worse or staying roughly the same, and then allocate resources necessary to places where these trajectories are negative, to where schools are getting worse.
It allows you to target when schools are in need without necessarily being able to be in the classroom or in the school at all times.
Second, it also obviously allows you to see whether or not people are, rather than just growth, whether or not they are appropriately prepared for graduation, whether they've acquired the skills that are necessary in order to go on to pursue either a college degree or someplace in the workforce, and whether or not we're getting exactly what we expect out of our school systems.
And we think that this allows society to know which parts of this which parts of our society are failing and in what ways they're failing.
Whether or not these are long term problems which you can see from a trajectory or whether or not these are things that are getting better or getting worse, we think that by knowing this information it allows society to have more knowledge when allocating the resources we give for education: for choosing where federal and state tax money is going to go, when it's being put into a localised system, to try and track exactly where students are failing in comparison to other places and other schools and maybe mimic those things that are working in school systems that have continual success.
So we think that standardized tests are a good resource for gouge for gathering knowledge that will help the school system more broadly.
But next, we're going to talk about why you need to ensure some sort of standardized standard.
So firstly, we think for economic reasons, we think that having some sort of graduate degree having some sort of high school diploma allows employers to have more information about what they're hiring, about who they're getting out of the public education system.
And we think that natural or normalised standards across entire districts or across an entire country allow you to have a better understanding about the person that you're getting, about the employee that you could be hiring.
But more importantly, we think that all students are entitled to a certain benefit from education.
That they're getting certain goods out of the educational system because the educational system is what we hope would allow them to become independent adults moving forward.
Given that this is the case, we think that it's the benefit of society or to the benefit of society that we have an understanding of what aspects we're looking for out of our educational system and that those aspects at a bare minimum are being given to our to our young people that are being tested in being pushed through these systems.
We think that it's good that teachers have discretion broadly and we think that the standardized tests don't need to be the to be all end all of whether or not a teacher is a good teacher or not.
But we think that there are certain things that teachers should be getting across to students no matter what their choose to put in their lesson plan.
And given that this is the case, we think standardized tests are a good system of tracking that and of enforcing those standards.
And for this reason, we believe we should not abolish standardized tests.