We should ban free newspapers.
We think that in the current time in which social media is the area in which most people get their news, in a time in which fake news is being propagated at a tremendous rate, and it is easier than ever to publish yourself and paint yourself as a legitimate news source in in in instances in which people often or corporations often are not legitimate news sources, we think it is more crucial now than ever that we get good reporting and that we get substantial reporting about issues that matter.
So we're going to talk about why free newspapers undermine the ability for society to get these things, and why those things are so crucial.
So, we would say that payment equalizes the playing field of journalism that exists in the status quo.
It creates competition between newspapers on a level playing field, as opposed to the status quo, in which free newspapers are obviously much more attractive to people, because they don't have to pay for this news coverage, especially in a time in which people can get free news very easy online, without having to go through any legitimate payment.
But we think that accurate news needs to be more properly rewarded.
And we think that what we've seen in recent times is that real journalism simply cannot be sustained based on ad revenue alone.
This is why we're seeing a number of legitimate news sources, such as the wall street journal, the boston globe, the new york times, put up paywalls for their content.
This is because real hard-hitting investigative journalism requires more than just ad revenue to come into a site, but it also requires people to pay a little more than ads can generate based on the views of individuals alone.
This is why these sites have decided to put up paywalls in the first place.
We think that what is the case in the status quo is that you have a situation in which people are going to get free newspapers, are trying to get this this free news, undermining the ability for these corporations to make a profit, it undercuts the ability for the new york times to make a profit when there's a especially when there's a paywall, if people can go to sites and to go to newspapers that don't require this type of payment to take place.
What this means is that we think in the long run you're less likely to get legitimate news sources propagating, and you're less likely to get important news being reported.
We think that there are several implications of this that are crucial.
We think that when you undercut this market, it ruins investigative journalism, and this means that issues that otherwise wouldn't have been reported, issues that require not just CNN to put forward a headline, or for the AP to propagate a story and for free newspapers to pick it up and put it out there, issues that are widely under-covered, issues that are incredibly important to the people that they are that are involved in these issues and involved in these stories, do not get public attention, which means there's less political will to act on these important issues.
For example, the new york times just put out an article about the HIV epidemic amongst african american gay men, and how while HIV rates have gone down across the board in the united states, for this group in particular those rates have actually been steady ever since HIV became a major problem in the nineteen eighties, and in fact these rates have gone up.
This is important journalism, investigative journalism that takes an immense amount of manpower and an immense amount of time, and cannot be supported based on ad revenue alone.
But it is an important political issue that people need to be made aware of, because it impacts the lives of thousands of people and it affects their well-being.
Additionally, we think that you get a less informed populace when you have the long-term transition from newspapers and legitimate news sources that can't be supported based on ad revenue, to those that are cheaper in which less investigation is going on, in which less real work is being put into the stories and the ideas that are put out there.
We think that this means that you have a less informed political climate, you have a less informed political body, and this means that your country is going to be en masse less represented and less educated, and that politicians have less of a check.
We think that that news media is crucial, but we think that it's more important that we support legitimate news sources, and these sources cannot compete with free newspapers as it stands in the status quo.
And for these reasons, we should ban free newspapers.