We should abolish nuclear weapons.
So before we start this debate, we want to give a model for how we think this would play out, because we think there are clearly a lot of complexities that are associated with the issue of nuclear weapons.
So we think that this would take place in the form of scaling down over time, and we think that each state would have different check marks that they are supposed to clear every year, and there would be an independent commission, there's already independent united nations bodies and other international bodies that monitor nuclear weapons, we think those same bodies would be responsible with ensuring that people are scaling down at the rate that they're supposed to.
So, we think what's important to recognize in this debate is what the status quo actually look looks like, because since the cold war, people haven't thought about the potential of nuclear holocaust or mutually assured destruction, but recognize that devastation is easily possible.
One mistake, one miscue, one one individual actor getting a hold of a nuclear weapon and using it, can result in the nuclear holocaust of the entire world.
We think that current systems for monitoring, storing, and launching weapons are obsolete, especially in the united states where most of the infrastructure revolving around nuclear weapons is the same infrastructure that was put in place during the cold war.
These things are wholly obsolete, and could easily result in in these weapons being used accidentally or improperly.
And in other areas, where there is less secure storage, it's there's a potential for a bad actor, such as a terrorist group, to get a hold of a nuclear weapon and use it against civilians.
These things, if there's an accidental use, because of mutually assured destruction, are almost guaranteed to result in the widespread use of nuclear weapons, which means there's not just the possibility of one weapon use, if there is a weapon use it is almost guaranteed to result in the use of many nuclear weapons, which, as is widely known, is likely to lead to a bad outcome.
And these things have come shockingly close to happen in the past, both by the united states, by the soviet union, by other actors.
So, aside from this, why do we think nuclear weapons just aren't a legitimate weapon of war in the first place.
So even if none of these risks existed, why should we still abolish nuclear weapons.
Well, first, they're indiscriminate.
Nuclear weapons are guaranteed to cause harm to civilians almost certainly even if you're striking military target, because of the massive blast radius and because of the nuclear fallout.
And on top of the fact that they're indiscriminate, they're also similar to chemical weapons in the fact that they are unjustified in their use.
They're not they're likely to cause long term ailments of civilians and other people, it's likely to cause lingering health effects, it's likely to cause radiation poisoning, and these things can be incredibly harmful and incredibly painful for individuals, and we think that this is not a justified weapon, for the same reason that we don't allow chemical weapons to be used in war, because the method of death is in and of itself cruel and unacceptable.
And finally, we just don't think that nuclear weapons will ever be a proportional response, except to another nuclear weapon strike.
But as we've already explained, if there are multiple nuclear weapons flying back and forth between a state, this is almost certainly going to result in the widespread death of billions of individuals, because these things are likely to lead to mutually assured destruction.
So, given that this is the case, we don't think there is ever an instance in which these types of weapons are going to be used acceptably.
We think that any use of a nuclear weapon is going to be a bad use of a nuclear weapon, and that if there is ever a use of a nuclear weapon, it's going to result in the end of humanity.
This is not the purpose of a weapon, this is not the purpose of war, and even though these things are unlikely going to be used intentionally, there's a high risk, a high possibility that these things will be used unintentionally, which will result in all of the same harms as an intentional use.
And for these reasons, we should abolish nuclear weapons.