Prohibit hydraulic fracturing, otherwise known as fracking.
We think that there are two main arguments to be made in this debate about why we should prohibit hydraulic fracturing.
The first is about global warming and why we think that global warming is the most important issue in the round and the decider right there, and the second is about economics and why fracking is not a cost-effective method of actually producing fuel.
So, firstly, on global warming.
We think that it cannot be overstated how crucial the argument about global warming is within this round.
Global warming is the reality that we face in our modern times, and the reality that is going to harm every civilization on earth if not addressed immediately.
In the immediate future, if we do not dramatically decrease the amount of fossil fuels we use as a civilization, as a human civilization, we are going to be face with tremendous changes to our environment that are going to drastically harm some every person on earth.
Let's explain what some of those harms are.
First and foremost, the increase in temperature globally leads to decreases leads to the melting of global ice polar ice caps, which leads to two really dramatic problems that come.
The first is that sea levels rise, which can cause flooding amongst coastal cities.
And while this may sound like an issue that is a niche issue, it's important to recognize that the majority of the human population lives on the coasts.
Major hubs of transportation, of civil activity, major hubs of society were developed on the coasts, because these are the areas that traditionally, and still today, are the most easy to transport goods to and from and the most easy to build up a society on, the easiest place to actually run a hub of civilization.
Which means that when the sea levels start rising globally, we can see major metropolitan areas, new york city, most countries in europe, especially low-laying countries like the netherlands, florida, major hubs of human activity in a population, all under water, which will cause huge loss of life, huge losses of property, and an immense downturn in the economy.
The other problem with rising sea levels is that these rising sea levels and the melting of global ice caps also come with warming waters, which means you're more likely to see, in the long run, dramatically worse storms and dramatically worse environmental damage that comes from those storms.
The damage that we've seen in recent years from hurricanes such as hurricane sandy and hurricanes like katrina are just a preview of what we can expect to see if we don't make dramatic changes right now.
Fracking adds to the burning of fossil fuels.
Aside from the damage that it does to the environment, and aside from the damage that it does just from getting those fuels out of the ground, it also increases the amount of fossil fuels that exists.
We think that this goes directly against what we need to do as a society in order to avoid the damages of global warming, and because global warming's such a huge threat, it outweighs any sort of issue that can be covered by by the economy or the gain or what have you, any arguments that the other side can make.
So, even if you don't care about that, we're also going to explain why we think economically it's just not a very good option.
Fracturing and fracking, as it's otherwise known, is just not a cost-effective method of trying to get fuel.
It requires you to destroy entire ecosystems and to pollute water supplies, all in the desire to try and get a little bit of fuel out of the ground.
It's an incredibly long process to get any sort of fuel that's usable, and the alternative is investing in other green industries, industries that are already growing today, industries that already have a firm foundation our economy and industries that are more likely to cause long-run stable jobs that we could otherwise being investing in.
Given that this is the case as far as an as far as economic terms are concerned, that fracturing is much worse economically and less viable economically in the long term than these other green technologies, we don't even think that it's a worthwhile economic investment, and on top of all of that, it only leads to more harms from global warming.
For these reasons, we should prohibit hydraulic fracturing.