We should subsidize public transportation.
So, for the purpose of the debate, we would say that when we subsidize it, we're going to do it fairly robustly, we're going to ensure that there is both more transportation opportunities within urban areas, so more more things like subways and other ways to commute with in urban areas, and we would additionally ensure that transportation is developed, to allow people to commute from more rural or suburban areas into urban areas.
So, not just increasing the amount of subways we have, but increasing the amount of trains, and other types of transportation, that bring people into urban areas.
Alright.
Two main arguments: the first is why this allows for more social mobility, and the second is that it's simply better for the environment.
So why is it better for social mobility?
We would say that, the vast majority of jobs, that exist, exist in the status quo in urban areas.
This is because jobs and employers want to move in to urban areas, because it gives them a larger base of employment to draw from.
The other thing is that, people need people need to commute into these areas, and people need to go to these areas to get jobs.
The problem is that it's simply expensive for many people to be able to commute.
People can't afford to have their own their own private cars, and if they can't commute easily on their own, through their own economic value, we think that we should subsidize the ability for people to move into these areas, to collect jobs, and to try and get these jobs.
We think that, the people, that can't afford to transport themselves in the status quo, are the people that are in most need of these jobs, these are the lowest class of people in society, and these are the people that are often at the lowest rates of employment, in the lowest rates of well being.
And because of this, we think it is absolutely crucial that we allow them to be more connected to these urban areas.
But secondly, and we think more importantly, is that this is simply cleaner for the environment.
Public transportation allows for a much lower level of emissions than large amount of people driving into the city, with their cars.
Recognize that, in the status quo, approximately eighty percent of people commute on their own every day, which means that in the same amount of space that you could put a bus, there are two or three people that are driving to work.
And not only that, not only does it mean that we will have less congestion, if you have say, thirty people going on a bus, instead of thirty people driving their own cars into work on the highway, but you also have fewer emissions, even if buses on balance, create more emissions than a single car, you're simply decreasing the amount of vehicles that are on the road.
This solves two problems: the first is that, there is an immense amount of congestion the status quo, which leads to people wasting a large amount of their lives commuting.
People spend two, three hours a day of their life, five days a week, getting to work, getting from the suburban areas into urban areas.
We think if you allow for more public transportation, and you subsidize public transportation, so that it's a cheaper option, people are more likely to choose to take these public transportation options.
The second is obviously that it means you have much lower emissions, you've lower pollution, and things like this.
We think that this is crucial.
Recognized that in the status quo, we're approaching a global warming tipping point, where approaching a point at which, if we don't make drastic changes to the level of emissions were putting out, we're going to make irreversible damage to our environment.
We think that, subsidizing public transportation, not only allows for people that are less economically well off to move into areas, or to commute to areas where you have more jobs, it also means that you're doing less damage, and the damage, that is almost certainly going to disproportionately impact these people in the lowest classes, is done away with.
So given that, if you increase public transportation, you decrease the amount of congestion, especially in urban areas, you decrease the amount of pollution, and you allow for more economic mobility and social mobility amongst people through all economic classes, but especially the lowest economic classes, we say that we should subsidize public transportation.