We should ban homeopathy.
In times when societies are massively misinformed by fake news sites perpetuated on social media, or bubbles don't allow people to to, receive alternative points of view to inform them, we think it's important that in this time in particular government stepped forward to make sure that there is an informed citizenry.
Not only because it's good for people's individual health, but because it's also good for the collective communal health and for the costs that are associated with that healthcare and up-keep, we think it's important that homeopathy is bad.
Recognize that there is no meaningful scientific research to support homeopathy as a real way to cure any sort of ailment.
Curing ailments through homeopathy is just as effective as taking sugar pills and being lied to and told that it's actually aspirin or something of the like.
It's simply a product of the placebo effect and nothing more than that.
So there's no healthcare reason why individuals should be able to take this stance.
It's only the only feasible reason why individual should be able to use homeopathy, is because they are free to do with their body what they will.
But we don't think that this freedom is permanent.
We don't think that people can do anything with their body when it has an impact on those around them, nor do we think that other people can be told what to do with their body, especially when it has negative healthcare consequences.
So why should we ban homeopathy?
First and foremost, when people are misinformed we think they make poor decisions that impact their health.
Just because homeopathy has no scientific basis to show that it works doesn't mean that people don't believe that it does.
And while people may be afraid of traditional medicine, when they think the comparisons between traditional medicine, which may work but is also scary and they don't understand it, and homeopathy which is supported by voodoo science, where people think there are no negative side effects and it's an entirely natural and something that your body is more easily able to take in, but also effective, we think that they're making a choice between two false options.
Things that are drastically not correct and that can't be properly weighed for the individual in making their decision.
Furthermore, it's important to recognize that when homeopathy is allowed and allowed to be credited as something that people can do to treat themselves, this has impacts on what parents can do for their children.
For example, the parents believe that it's bad for you to take traditional medicine but that homeopathy works well, children can be exposed to a lack of vaccinations and other medications that can be crucial for their health.
And children don't have a meaningful choice over whether or not they're going to do this nor do they have a choice of whether or not they're going to be inculcated into this false belief.
Which means that in this particular relationship when you allow homeopathy, not only does it mean that health of the child is harmed in the short run, and possibly in the long run if major steps aren't taken to prevent really dangerous diseases like cancer and other things that can be life threatening, but it also means that if that child survives and is able to continue on in their life, it's going to be much more difficult for them to learn that homeopathy is not effective and to make decisions moving forward that would be the most healthy for them.
So, those are ways in which individuals both on their own level and in their relations with others use homeopathy to harm themselves and those around them even if they may not be doing it intentionally.
The other reason why we should ban homeopathy is because when people do get sick because they choose not to get actual medication, and rather choose to use homeopathy, those medical costs still accrue and people are still forced to pay those medical costs.
It's just that the people that are sick don't pay these medical costs themselves, those costs get passed on to the public.
So when someone is ill in the united states and they go to the hospital or in many other developed countries, and they can't pay those bills because they don't have insurance, or because they waited too long and the decease got too powerful for them to to get a simple cure to, those costs get passed on to the taxpayer and the taxpayer then, through programs like medicare and medicaid and other and other sorts of subsidies, are forced to pay those costs moving forward.
So we think that from a simple economics base it's important to ban homeopathy.
Because we think there would be a massive reduction in costs in the medical service, in the medical program that are borne by the public in general, and given that when someone is making a choice that they often don't realize is a bad choice or they're not informed enough to make meaningful choice, we don't think that stripping them them off that autonomy in that way, especially when they're broader societal and beneficial social impacts that come from banning homeopathy as well as economic impacts, we don't think it's stripping them from a meaningful use of their bodily autonomy, and because of that we think that we should ban homeopathy.