We should increase gun control.
First in this debate, it's important to specify what we mean, when we say we would increase gun control, so we have a few ideas in mind: the first is increased and mandatory gun registration.
The second is universal background checks and closing down black markets, such as gun shows, that allow people to exploit loopholes, and avoid getting background checks.
The third is bans on specific types of guns, such as assault rifles, high capacity magazines, and things of that nature, things that we simply think are not necessary for self defense, or for sport.
And fourthly, we would limit things like where and when people can carry, we think gun free zones, like schools and other areas of public interest, are good things to have, and we think that these are fairly reasonable restrictions, that create a balance between self defense, and the need to prevent gun violence.
So, we only really have one argument, but we think it's crucial: we simply think that it is common sense and the duty of the state to protect its people from what currently occurs with high volumes of gun deaths.
Statistics will show that, countries that have fewer guns in the streets, whether it's illegal black market guns, or just legally owned firearms, were less likely to have fatalities.
Recognize that, the majority of gun deaths don't come from homicides, but rather come from suicides, come from self harm, come from people getting a gun that wasn't registered to them, but is registered to a friend or family member, and doing harm with that.
Recognize that, the more prevalent guns are in our society, the more widely available they are, the easier it is for guns to trickle out to the black market, which means, aside from the massive amount of harm that comes from suicides and self harm, there's also a black market that is growing, because of our poor regulation of guns, and even if you believe that it's important to have the right to self defense, that right to self defense is undermined when we play so loose with how people are going to have guns in our country.
You need to ensure that, there are simple and reasonable checks to ensure that bad people, people that are likely to do harm with guns, or people that are simply not mentally stable enough to have a gun, someone that is mentally ill, someone, that is likely to do harm to themselves or others, should not be able to have a gun.
And while people say you can do harm with other things, it doesn't mean that guns aren't infinitely more deadly, and that these things aren't a serious problem.
And recognize, this is a serious problem in the status quo.
Homicides are on the rise, and suicides are in a massive high.
An easier access means a large black market.
When you have countries, like those in europe and japan, that have no guns that have either limited gun usage, or no guns at all, we think that, these countries just show empirically that there are fewer harms due to guns.
So, now let's talk about the right to life.
We think the right to life is the most important thing that people have, and as such, the government's most important priority is: protect that right to life.
We believe that, this means this outweighs any sort of nebulous right you have to self defense, and recognize that a right to self defense does not equate to a right to gun ownership.
I may have a right to speech, but I don't have a right to get a pedestal, where I can speak to five hundred thousand people, it's just that I have the ability to speak what I want.
And, your self defense rights aren't undermined by this, you can still have protections for yourself with a handgun, if you really think that you need a gun to protect yourself, or by having a home security system, or getting together with your neighbors, and deciding to have some some sort of neighborhood surveillance, or neighborhood watch program.
There are ways to ensure that you can be protected from violence, without having an assault rifle that can shoot sixty bullets out of one clip.
We simply think that, these are common sense restrictions that ensure that, when gun violence happens, it's easier to track down who did this violence, but overall, decreases the amount of violence, which we think saves lives and that's what the government exists to do.
And for use reasons, we should increase gun control.