We should not subsidize investigative journalism.
So we think that in theory the government's idea of subsidizing investigative journalism to create a more robust press, a more informed public, that these are nice ideas but we think that in actuality the way that a system like this would work would likely undercut the end goals of investigative journalism and do ultimately more harm than good.
So the first argument that the government makes is actually ironically enough about promoting free press and that a democracy requires like a free press in order to be functioning and informed and all of those things and in and we don't agree we don't disagree with that.
A free press is great.
An informed public is great.
These are all great things but what we think this subsidy actually does is creates a dependency on the state for these things to happen.
So look at news organizations in the status quo that are already struggling with the decrease in subscriptions, with the increase of free media elsewhere, we think that they would probably jump on board just to keep some sort of funding going for their own systems for these grants.
But that means that this investigative journalism is now tied directly to the state and we think that this means that people are going to be deterred from doing robust reporting on the state because they know that that grant can just be revoked from them if they anger the people that are in power and obviously this is problematic.
We would rather have a somewhat smaller form of investigative journalism where maybe there's less of it going on but that the quality of it is higher, that more people are being informed about things that matter the most in a way that can really check against the state but we don't think that's likely to happen if all of the sudden the people that are writing about the state are also getting paid by the state.
We think it creates a perverse incentive to, not just for the state but also for journalists, to try and be the ones that are getting these grants, to try and be in favor of the state.
So we think that ultimately in order to have this free press it needs to be free from being tied with the state itself which is why it should not provide this subsidy.
The second argument that they make is that this this form of subsidizing investigative journalism can undercut the kind of rising tide of conservatism and fascism that exists in the state in in many states today by kind of exposing them.
I think they I don't understand why this why this subsidy would only be going to liberal media outlets nor why that would be a good thing.
Like we think that first, conservative values in and of themselves are not necessarily bad but if we're going to fascism which seems to be what the government's focusing on, we think that if if a fascist state is the one that's doing it, it is even more likely that what we said above is true and that these grants are just going to be going to conservative or fascist news organizations so that they can if nothing else expose the opposition for the for the skeletons that they have in their closet making the fascist look even better, like making the fascist look comparatively better.
So we think that in the states that the government is talking about, it's even more likely that what we talked about in our first argument is going to come to fruition and it's again going to make sure that these people are more likely to be entrenched in power so long as the opposition seems to be the bad guy.
We think that it's ultimately unlikely that these types of state would take any sort of action to harm itself and that this is again nice in theory, but isn't going to come to execution in a way that's good.
They say that as a as a kind of touch off point that you can also keep corporations accountable.
But we think that this is probably outweighed by investigative journalism unit that is unable to report on those that essentially are still controlling the corporations, have the power that being the government.
Finally they say that as a last point it's good to encourage people to go in the humanities fields.
This is true but we just don't see why this requires subsidizing investigative journalism directly.
Like you can subsidize people getting humanities degrees.
We just don't think that that is a winning argument in this and for these reasons, we should not subsidize investigative journalism.