We should not limit the use of birth control.
In this round we're gonna make four main arguments.
The first is about bodily autonomy.
The second is about why birth control is simply less less controversial than the alternatives.
The third is that limiting birth control is unlikely to deter sex and finally, that we don't think that sex is worth deterring in the first place.
Let's go down that one by one.
Firstly, we think that the state's fundamental job is to protect your freedoms.
That you enter into the state with the idea that the state is going to uphold freedoms that otherwise would not be upheld in the state of nature and that requires the state to allow you to maximize freedom in all instances in which you're not harming other third parties and we think that when it comes to birth control, birth control is an issue about bodily autonomy.
It's about your decision of how you're going to protect yourself, about how you're going to behave in a consensual manner with a different person.
We think that this is the furthest thing from what the state should be intervening in.
That the state has no justification for doing this type of thing.
When the state intervenes in people's sexual practices, it's often for moral reasons.
It's often for reasons that are external to what the state is justified in doing.
We don't think that the state is the is the arbiter of morality and we don't think that the state should be the arbiter of morality.
We think that the state's purpose is to uphold freedom and that minimizing about freedom and limiting bodily autonomy by limiting the use of birth control is simply unfounded and unjust.
Secondly, we think that the alternative to birth control is likely going to be a higher rate of abortions and when we're talking about the political salience of of limiting birth control verses limiting abortion, abortion is a much more controversial topic.
Abortion is something that main stream conservatives and honestly people of all walks of life have issue with, they take issue with.
They find it difficult to understand why it is distinct from murder but when it comes to birth control this is something that the vast majority of people are behind.
Not only would not only does that mean that this would be a a massively unjust and unpopular action and that for that reason alone the state shouldn't take it, but more importantly, it means that you're often going to create a situation in which you're pushing people towards the more controversial issue, the more morally grey issue and if you're going to legislate based on morality, we think that that's the last thing you want to do.
Thirdly, this just isn't going to deter sex.
If you look at places in the united states with the least amount of sex education, with the least access to birth control, limited planned parenthood facilities, these are areas that have not the lowest rate of of teenage sex but rather the highest rate of teenage pregnancy.
There's a fundamental biological drive that people have to interact in a sexual manner with other people and we don't think about limiting birth control is going to have any meaningful impact on this.
But finally, we just don't think that sex is worth deterring.
Sex is an incredibly personal choice and sex can be something that is beautiful to someone.
It can be something that's fulfilling.
It's a way to connect with your partner, to show your appreciation for your partner, to feel good.
These are things that we shouldn't want to limit in our society.
Maybe it's something that people do choose to abstain from for moral reasons or religious reasons and that's an entirely valid choice but this does not mean that it is the only valid choice.
It doesn't mean that it needs to be enforced on other people and we think that people with their full consent and their full rational capacity should be able to have sex and in order to do that we can be need to be safe, they need to use birth control otherwise all of those benefits go away and massive harms accrue.
For these reasons, we should not limit the use of birth control.