We should not cancel the pledge of allegiance to the flag.
So just to preface this debate, we think that this is primarily talking about the pledge of allegiance in the united states.
Yes, there are different types of swearing fealty and pledges and whatnot in other countries but the united states is unique in that it is very common practice in public places of gathering, before political events and political rallies, even at the beginning of the school day that the pledge of allegiance is said and so we think that the majority of the impact takes place in the united states.
So the government gives us three arguments for why we should abandon we should cancel the pledge of allegiance and the first is that it promotes malicious nationalism and xenophobia.
Well, the thing is that the pledge of allegiance itself does not have anything about it that is overly xenophobic nor does it pander to like right wing nationalism that's been on the rise.
While it's certainly true that both of those things have been on the rise in american society over the past decade, two decades for quite sometime now, this has been the pledge of allegiance has been an american custom for decades and there's no correlation between those two things.
We don't think that the pledge of allegiance itself gives rise to nationalism or xenophobia.
It's entirely possible and even admirable to express patriotism for your country especially when the country is really relatively free, just and democratic.
As many bad things as the united states does as as incredibly difficult it is to understand what goes on in our political landscape from time to time, we think it's still important to recognize that it's a country that you can be proud of if you are a citizen who lives there and the pledge of allegiance is a way to express that.
The second thing that the government side says is that the pledge of allegiance is just a relic of the past.
It became so prominent because of the rise the soviet union in this sort of narrative in the cold war period to try and spark patriotism and show allegiance and what not.
So maybe that's true but it's not a reason that this is a negative thing now.
Whether or not it arose for whatever purpose in the past, we think that it's just a unique part of american society, a historical artifact maybe, but it's still something powerful today that allows people to express their patriotism.
And the final argument that the government side makes against the pledge of allegiance is that people just shouldn't be forced to pledge to a country.
That this sort of cultural process of pledging your allegiance to the flag is something that people shouldn't be forced to do in a ritualistic manner.
But we think that this argument takes way too seriously the term pledge of allegiance when people recite the pledge of allegiance.
We just don't think that most people, that the average school child or the average person at a sporting event actually puts into their mind that they are pledging their allegiance to the country.
It's just something that you do as a collective.
In reality, the pledge is a pretty insignificant part of daily american life.
That's a point of pride for some people, that some people gain an immense amount of an immense sense of patriotism and pride and it can promote a lot of good within our communities and our society for some people but for other people it can be avoided if you want to avoid it.
You can as a child choose not to say the pledge of allegiance in class.
In fact, I did so myself growing up and no one gave me any trouble for it because it's illegal to give me trouble for it.
It can be avoided by others if they choose to do so and generally you will not be scolded for not saying the pledge of allegiance and given that that's the case, we don't think that the pledge of allegiance actually does all that much harm in and of itself and it provide positive value for individuals and the collective as a whole.
For these reasons, we should not cancel the pledge of allegiance to the flag.