We should ban abortions.
We think that in the context of this debate, the most important issues to consider are that of women's bodily autonomy and whether or not women should have an overriding right to choose how they're going to use their reproductive systems and what they're going to do with their bodies.
We think that this issue should come prior to the issue whether or not the fetus has a right to life or anything like that for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, we think that that women have had a severe history of oppression throughout the history of humankind and we think that that needs to be corrected for in our society today.
Recognizing that women are full human beings with the same rights that we afford men.
Recognize that it's incredibly difficult firstly, to determine whether or not there is some sort of strict right or strict line to when life exists, but more importantly, when we're gonna consider the rights between whether or not a individual is going to be forced to bear the burden of another individual verses their ability to choose how they're going to use their body.
In everyday situations we often defer and almost always defer to that of people's right to use their body as they see fit.
Just because some woman become pregnant doesn't mean that this is something they've done on their own choosing, or even if that is the case, we don't think that the right to life ought to supersede that to bodily autonomy because we think that that is how one expresses their nature and given that these children at these stages of these fetuses embryos can't express those those abilities we think that we should defer to the women.
Why do we think that women need to have a history of oppression corrected for?
We think that since the beginning of mankind, women have been used in all sorts of ways and have had the ability to consent to their own use of reproductive capabilities, and also their ability to consent or use their body as they see fit with their free will and their free capacities.
That's been limited severely.
We think that especially in the context of modern times women have been forced into certain social aspects such as maintaining the household, into other sorts of coercion through over and hypersexualization.
All these things lead to horrible stigmas that often lead to many problems that lead to abortion occurring in the first place.
We also think that that in particular issue of hypersexualization is something to keep in mind, given that we think that women are often through social pressures coerced into having these sorts of sexual interactions that lead to these things be a necessity.
We think that overall viability is a bizarre line to choose whether or not an individual should be given the rights of a full individual, or whether or not that is a standard that can be used.
Firstly, scientifically, we don't think that there's a very clear line for viability, but more importantly, we think that using viability as a determination for rights is incredibly problematic.
So for example, a coma patient may not have any sort of realistic chance of coming out of their coma, but we think that because as an individual through there's time in our society they have earned the rights that are being given to them we think that allowing them to make a choice, or allowing their families to make a choice, or even choosing to keep them on life support for an incredibly long period of time is totally reasonable because they've earned those rights as part of our society.
They've earned those rights by being part of the moral system that we all abide to.
The fetus, the embryo, has done nothing to earn these type of rights but women in all of these circumstances have done so.
They've earned the full bodily autonomy that we grant to man, and just because women are forced to bear the burden of reproduction and not men, we don't think that there should be a determination as to whether or not we're going to pass legislation on this issue.
We think that there's many ways that individuals care about whether or not abortions occur.
That these types of things can be prevented.
Giving better access to contraception, better access to health education and education about sexual reproduction, all of these things can prevent abortion, but at the point at which a a woman has become pregnant we don't think that's the job of society to determine whether or not she is going to be able to assert her bodily autonomy, especially given that society for the overwhelming majority of its history has chosen to oppress women in the past.
For these reasons we think you should not ban abortion.