We should not further exploit nuclear power.
So, the first thing we're going to do in this debate is explain why in any sort of discussion about clean energy or green tech, there is necessarily this is necessarily a debate between different kinds of green tech, and we'll explain why, and then we're going to talk about why nuclear power is bad because of the potential for disaster and the proposed alternatives that we will put forward.
Alright, so firstly, on the trade-off.
We think that the there are two main reasons that there's a clean energy trade-off.
The first is that there is just limited resources and limited amount of investment possible for a green tech.
This is for a few reasons.
Firstly, there are only so many people that specialize or going to an industry such as green tech, and therefore if you divert some people to nuclear power, those are people that are less likely to that otherwise may have studied things like solar power or wind power or other types of tech, because these are generally similar similar types of people want to go into these fields.
And the same kind of goes with investment, because green tech is kind of a risky investment, and also because it's such a small business compared to like the relatively stable investment that is oil, we think that there are only so many people willing to invest.
The second reason that this is necessarily a trade-off between types of green tech is because green tech isn't just about converting over from fossil fuels, but it's also about doing it very quickly.
And this means that you need to scale up fast in order to prevent the worst damage that could possibly come from global warming, and the way that you do this is by creating a standard model that can be improved upon and be reinforced by putting as much energy into one model as you can, one model of sustainability.
So for these reasons we think that there is a trade-off between nuclear power and other types of power, specifically solar power, we would propose as a better alternative.
Alright, so on disaster.
We think compared to other clean energy technology, not compared to oil, there is much more likely to have an an issue or disaster with nuclear power.
Even though meltdowns are incredibly rare, when they do happen they can devastate areas for decades to come.
The fallout of a nuclear meltdown can result in radiation damaging an area for literally decades.
This is what we've seen in past areas like when the fukushima meltdown occurred, that area in japan hasn't recovered, other areas suffer similar fates.
Because of this, there are immense reservations for communities to like actually accept nuclear power plants near them, to actually take them in, because they know that there's a potential for disaster and it could harm them and their families, and for this reason we think it's very unlikely that nuclear power could scale up at the rate it would need to to be an actual sustainable energy solution, and we also just don't think that people are going to want to adopt nuclear power, and if there are other safer alternatives that can provide just as much power, or in the long run at least can, we think that those are preferable.
So let's talk about those, the alternatives.
We think that solar energy is simply by far the better of the two green energy potential outputs.
The reason for this is several.
Firstly, solar can go almost anywhere.
Where it may be commonly believed that you can only have solar power in issues that receive sun for very long periods of time, this simply isn't the case.
In fact, most homes in america could put solar power panels on their roofs, and basically self-sustain themselves in the modern day.
This is because of people like elon musk and other companies that have been investing very heavily in solar power in the past, and this is the other reason why it's potentially better to go with solar power is because there's already an immense amount of infrastructure, development, different types of technologies being created to fuel the solar energy movement, for example, solar fuel cells have become immensely more capable, immensely more efficient in the past decade than they were several years ago.
And so we think that with the current infrastructure in place, it's much easier for solar to scale up, it's much more easy for solar to be adopted, and overall it is much safer to have solar panels fuel in the future than nuclear power.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit nuclear power.