We should disband nato.
We think in this round when we're talking about nato, we're talking specifically about the security wing that is composed of most western european countries as well as the united states and some surrounding allies of the united states.
And we have two main arguments we want to make.
First is about why nato, we think, increases post-cold war tension, and the second is about why there are better international bodies for collective defense.
So, on cold war tensions: recognize the history of nato.
Nato was formed in response to the soviet union and in response to the iron curtain and the soviet bloc that was formed following world war two.
Nato was meant to form collective defense for the US and its allied states from the communist bloc.
In the status quo, many former soviet states have or still want to join nato.
They want to enter into an alliance with with western europe and with the united states, which raises tensions with russia for a few reasons.
The first is that when these countries, like estonia and other eastern european states, want to join nato, it's a symbolic it's symbolic of the decline of power of russia.
This runs contrary to putin's entire strongman approach to governance and his entire propaganda campaign to show why russia is strong, especially under vladimir putin.
This is something that we think is likely to increase those tensions, especially because these nato, as a body, is directly contradictory to russia as a body.
We also think the US and the US and allied military forces become closer to the russian border.
So, when nato is allowed to perform military practices, to put military bases in countries that are right on the border of russia or near the border of russia, this heightens the threat that nato poses to russia, and and obviously russia is not very happy about the idea of US having forces that could invade russia at any time.
All this all of this is heightened by the specter of a potential nuclear showdown, that if nuclear weapons are put in estonia, then nuclear weapons are right on the border of russia, and even a small accident could cause a massive nuclear fallout.
We think that disbanding nato puts an end to all of this.
It creates a clean starting point to de-escalate the tensions that never ended at the end of the cold war and form a new alliance with the russian state.
We think that this is the best way forward in a post-cold war era.
Second, why there are better bodies for collective defense.
Three bodies we're thinking about specifically: the first is the UN.
It still has the same tenets of global cooperation and peace that nato had, but it's open to non-US actors, and it presents a more even playing ground for determining how collective defense should look, and it allows russia to enter the fold rather easily.
There's also regional bodies that can spring up allowing russia to act within european circles, such as the return of the g eight or potentially creating bodies for collective self-defense through the g twenty.
We also think that in today's day and age, economic interests largely tie state's defense interests together.
And so, trade bodies like the world bank and other trade organizations can serve a important role in tying these states together in a defensive way and not just in an economic way.
All of these lack the same cold war backdrop intention that rise out of nato.
Because these these bodies don't have that same stink of the cold war on them, we think russia is likely to be more willing to join and obviously more able to join, and we think that it decreases the tensions that currently are putting us at risk of not just war, but a nuclear calamity.
For these reasons, we should disband nato.