We should ban strip clubs.
In this round the principle that we want to advance is that we think that strip clubs on a number of levels are morally reprehensible, that the world would in fact be a better place if we didn't have strip clubs and that they serve no utility in the status quo.
The first argument we want to make is that strip clubs are fundamentally bad for women.
First, let's talk about the patriarchy.
Recognize that throughout human history the humanity has been run in a patriarchal sense.
Those that have been allowed to be in power have overwhelmingly been male figures in society and women have overwhelming we've been subjected to subservient roles not just in distant human history but in recent human history and we think that those centuries and millennia of learning, of building societies in such a way that women had been subjected can show through today in repetitions of past harms through things like the wage gap that women face, things like the ability for the difficulty that women face in in being able to access leadership roles, these types of things.
We think that strip clubs are a construct of the patriarchy.
They're designed to feed male desires and to cater to to patriarchal ideas.
We think that there are three large ways that these strip clubs are simply anti-feminist and therefore anti-women.
First, women are simply being put on display for male pleasure.
We think that it's problematic that the entire routine of a strip club, the whole purpose of a strip club is that women are again subservient to men.
They are serving man and they are they exist as a as an object in the male's eyes and that's the other problem is that in strip clubs women are just fundamentally dehumanized.
They're overtly and obviously only being valued as bodies and objects rather than as human beings, as people.
We think that this simply reinforces the cycles of oppression that have existed for centuries.
The idea that women for so long in human history have been viewed as objects of male desires rather than as full fledged people and we think that these these strip clubs entrench those ideas in the minds of patrons because the way that you entrench ideas, the way that you entrench norms is through repetition of behavior and repeatedly going to these strip clubs and repeatedly viewing women as simply objects and seeing them as a tool for your own joy and for whatever for your own desires rather than as distinct human beings, this continues to create oppression and enforces those ideas in people's minds outside of strip clubs.
We have an obligation to make up for centuries of patriarchal oppression and send a strong signal that this isn't okay.
Secondarily though, we think that strip clubs are also a site of public immorality.
We think they're just a den for immorality in the status quo.
We think that things like adultery go on in strip clubs, the breaking of a promise between two committed individuals, public lewdness and the fact that people are simply scantily clad and they're in a situation that we don't think is appropriate for all people and all of this like all this is problematic and morally wrong in certain ways but the but the fact that is it is in the public domain is the real problem.
In private they're fine, they're acceptable and we don't think that the government should regulate.
But in public spaces we think the government has the right and the duty to make a space acceptable for all and we don't think it's acceptable for children to be walking down the street, walking past their friendly neighborhood strip club where inside they know that there are things going on that are morally reprehensible and also an object in a body that sends patriarchal notions and reinforces patriarchal notions.
For these reasons, we should ban strip clubs.