Child labor should not be legalized.
So, just to be clear, we're talking about any laws that currently exist to prevent children from participating in the labor force, to whatever degree they are, those laws should stay in place.
We defend the status quo.
So the first argument that the government said side says is that there's a general right to work that exists for all people, all people should have the ability to earn some sort of subsistence for themselves, and because all people have this right, children should be afforded this right as well.
But we think it's incredibly clear that whether or not this right is given, no child wants to work.
These are things that happen out of desperation and poor conditions for the children that are living in them.
People don't naturally desire to hold a job and be laborers.
Children don't have this sort of immense drive to go out and earn a dollar, but rather they do these things out of necessity.
Sure, sometimes they want some money so they can buy a new video game or something, but they do chores or they do some yard work for a neighbor.
But we're talking about children holding jobs, jobs where they pay taxes and they work regular hours, and most children, no child wants to have that experience.
As children are still young, they should be spending time developing physically, mentally, emotionally, rather than working, and we think our society should create structures with that end goal, including child labor laws.
The second argument that's made by the government side is that any sort of labor restrictions create an inefficient market, because it doesn't allow for the proper flow of labor into sectors in which it's needed and because of that, child labor should not be should not be banned.
But we think that an efficient market has absolutely no intrinsic value.
An efficient market is good because it gets higher yields for people and creates a general benefit, but we think that child labor often comes with incredibly harsh conditions, tradeoffs with education, and danger, which is what caused these laws to be implemented in the first place.
The market has been fine without child labor in developed countries for years now.
There's no need to reverse that.
There's no need to take a step backwards in our progress, in our protection of human rights, and our drive to create better lives for our future, and we think that taking a step back in the progress now would just be absolutely unnecessary.
The final argument that's made is that child labor is necessary because there are many families that struggle, and children being unable to work means that they're not able to help support their families.
But we don't think that this should be an issue, that if families are so desperate for sustenance and income that they need their children to work, that this is an obvious time where the government should be intervening to provide assistance.
So we think if you're going to put any sort of policy or political power into ensuring that child labor can be legalized, we think that that energy should instead goes towards increasing the social safety net and doing things to ensure that children and their families are able to live at least a bare minimum level.
We think that this that this argument masks a much larger failing in our governmental systems and in our societies and that rather than banking on child labor to save a family so that they can scrape by, we should be doing much more as a society, and our government should be doing much more to ensure that these people can be assisted.
We think that there is no reason that a child should need to work.
And if a child doesn't need to work, we think there's no reason that anyone is being harmed by existing child labor laws.
For these reasons, child labor should not be legalized.