Immigration to the united states brings more good than harm.
In this debate round we're going to be talking about two aspects in which immigration has a traumatically dramatically positive impact on the society of the united states.
So we're going to talk about the economic impacts of immigration and we're going to talk about the cultural impacts of immigration.
Firstly, we want to talk about how when people immigrate to the united states the economic impacts tend to be positive despite the fact that there's rhetoric that goes on in spheres of political discourse that immigrants to the united states steal american jobs and and harm progress and do things like this.
The evidence is rather to the contrary.
Firstly, rather than stealing jobs, immigrants to the united states provide two types of labor that are crucial.
Firstly is low skilled labor.
Currently in the united states there's a massive lack of supply of low skilled labor.
There's a lot of people that are driven to go into higher education and there's a general stigma amongst the populace in the united states that your education shouldn't result in you going into trade work in low skilled work like construction, farming, etcetera.
But immigrants to the united states are able to fill these jobs which are crucial to the functioning of society, whether it's developing infrastructure that allows people to function to live their lives and for the economy to grow or it's doing things like agricultural work that feed our society.
These are crucial jobs that are necessary for the economic productivity and the general stability of american society that without an immigrant work force, in the united states simply would not be able to fulfill because of the lack of supply from labor sources within the united states itself.
But secondly, we also think that there is high skilled labor that ends up coming to the united states.
And this high skilled labor is also incredibly useful.
High skilled labor ends up coming to the united states in large part because of the education resources that we have here.
So a lot of foreign individuals come to the united states to have their education and then end up staying here after their graduation.
These individuals are also incredibly useful.
Firstly because they end up going into higher paying jobs which provides a larger tax base that the united states can tax from and then we distribute for the good of the society to do other positive things.
Whatever the government may see fit.
But secondly it ensures that innovators are coming into the united states and continue to make progress within the economy.
Oftentimes immigrants that come to the united states come with a different understanding of harms that may be going on in society or a different understanding of niches and niche opportunities that may be fulfilled within the market and they're able to bring this revenue into the united states in a positive way that we think adds to the again adds to the marketplace of ideas that exists in economic discourse but also allows for greater economic growth.
The second way that we think immigrants are positive to the united states are through cultural impacts.
Immigrants come with an entirely different understanding of how the world works in some instances and some instances it's it's fairly similar.
But broadly we think that immigrants end up bringing a diversity to the united states that is positive.
When multiple cultures er exist within one community, it allows for a growth of culture.
It allows for cultures to borrow from one another and allows cultures to simulate between each other in a way that allows for people to become more well rounded, to have a different understanding of the world that is outside of what they've been taught in their own backyards, what they've been taught from their families and their neighborhoods.
It allows them to get a more diverse understanding of the people that exist within the world and a more empathetic understanding of the struggles that people go through in other areas.
While people may have hostility towards immigrants in certain areas, in areas where people interact with these people on a daily basis and are able to understand the struggles that they've gone through in order to be in the united states, we think it bridges cultural empathy beyond just the borders that exist the united states that doesn't just help the people in the united states become more caring and more understanding and also have many opportunities and and cultural experiences that they wouldn't have wouldn't have had otherwise but also is helpful in directing the united states to be a positive force for good in the world broadly.
And for these reasons we think that immigration to the united states brings more good than harm.