We should not ban breast implants.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it would be unjust to ban breast implants.
The first argument we're going to make is that this type of a ban is just principally unjust in that if the state were to take this action, it would go beyond what the state is authorized to do from an ethical perspective.
We think that the state is fundamentally just a huge coercive apparatus.
It has the ability to dictate what people inside of its borders are and are not allowed to do.
We think that because the state is so large, because its population so numerous, and because people don't really have an opt-out system, it's not really possible to fully consent to the state.
But without consent, the state is simply a cartel.
It's simply a huge empire that gets that gets to dictate the lives of its internal parts, something that we think is overtly unjust.
And so consent needs to be derived from somewhere.
That consent, we think, comes from the idea that people would opt in to the state, that if people could choose not to consent to the state, if they could actually live in a state of nature, they still would consent to the state because the state provides them with freedoms that are not possible outside of the state.
That in a state of nature, you do not have any sort of protections for your freedoms whereas in a state, yes, your freedoms might be restricted to an extent, but freedoms the freedom to kill somebody, to hurt somebody, these freedoms are worth giving up to have your own freedoms protected.
And so when we're talking about a ban, we think that the band kinda goes directly against what people expect when they consent to the state, when they would have consented in to the state, that their freedom is maximized.
So there can only be bans under certain conditions.
We don't think that breast banning breast implants meets those conditions.
So what are those conditions?
First, there could be some sort of direct third-party harm, and this is why much violent crime is is criminalized: because there's a direct third-party harm when I choose to take a violent action against another person.
But this clearly isn't the case for breast implants.
There's no impact on third-party individuals that's direct in any sort of way.
The only direct impact is on the person that is choosing to get these breast implants.
That leads to the second reason why you might ban something: because there's an asymmetry of information that causes harm to the people that are getting the breast implants, but this isn't the case there either.
People are informed medically about the impacts that this is going to have, and so we don't think that the ban is justified under any real condition and that, principally, this ban would be unjust against what the state can do.
But secondarily, we think that we should empower female autonomy.
History has has subjugated and limited female autonomy in hundreds of ways in its history.
Females have been discriminated against and have been made secondary and subjugated in states for basically the entirety of human history.
We think that the way to correct for this patriarchal oppression that has occurred for centuries, for millennia, is not to tell women what they cannot do.
And one of the reasons that people often say breast implants shouldn't be allowed is that breast implants come to exist so that women can better match the male gaze, but that's not always the case, and this idea that women act in this one way or that women are doing these things for one particular reason stereotypes women and falls under the same problem that we're doing now in thinking that women are one homogeneous group, that women cannot make choices for themselves that would be different from the choices of other women.
And we think that this is why you cannot ban breast implants: because it's another way that you're subjugating women, another way that you're limiting their autonomy over their own bodies.
You're replicating the cycle of subjugation that has happened for millennia, and we think that has been unacceptable.
For these reasons, we should not ban breast implants.