We should not ban the church of scientology.
In this round we're gonna make a few arguments about why it wouldn't just why it would not only be unjust to ban the church of scientology, but why it would also create a bad precedent moving forward for the freedom of religion.
So let's just at the very top point something out which is that when it comes to actual practices, when it comes to the way these two entities perform their actions, the way they view themselves, the way that they're structured, there's not an immense amount of difference between a standard cult and a standard religion.
These are two systems that have a hierarchy, that have some sort of a promise of a higher power or a higher or a higher being or some entity that cannot be proven solely through science but must be taken on faith.
There are there're often sacraments that you have to make in both a cult and a religion.
There are often different trials that you must face in order to become a member or different ways in which you must experience that faith in order to be considered a real member of that community.
And given that this is this is the case, this is not to say that cults and religions are the same, but it is to say that it is hard to drive a direct and clear red line and between what is a cult and what is a religion.
And this is important when you consider the freedom of religion in a very fundamental sense and we think that the freedom of religion is crucial.
Religion is something that is incredibly personal to individuals, it gives them peace of mind, it gives them faith in something that is greater than themselves, it's something that elevates people of all social statuses to have a to perform in a more moral way, to have a better outlook on their life, to have peace of mind.
It's incredibly comforting.
We think that freedom of religion is incredibly important and it's something that almost all liberal states have codified as paramount.
What we want to say is that the church of scientology has many religious aspects, much like many cults have religious aspects.
They have this hierarchy, they have the belief in a divine being, they have the belief in a in a story of creation.
They have a social structure within the church, they have a hierarchy within the church, and they view themselves as a religion.
They view themselves as a unit as a religious organization, and if you start to decide that the church of scientology is no longer a religion, that we're going to ban it and we're going to say it doesn't count as a religion, then it gives you an open door to take a closer look at various other religions, at various other groups of people, that you might have problems with the practices they have and all of the sudden it opens the door for different minority groups, different minority religions, to be discriminated against to be called a cult, to be made differentiated from other religions, and ultimately to be banned themselves.
We think that that is a very slippery slope to take and we think it is not worth it to ban the church of scientology, especially because if you have a problem with the actual crimes that the church of scientology has committed, just because they are a religious organization does not mean they are free from being prosecuted for those crimes.
Look at the look at the range of different instances of sexual assault within the catholic church and how various members of that catholic church were prosecuted when those revelations came out.
It's clear that when you commit a a crime under a branch of religion, this does not free you from being prosecuted and we think the exact same goes for the church of scientology.
You can remove the horrid aspects of the church without banning it all right outright.
And for these reasons, we should not ban the church of scientology.