Genetically modified crops bring more harm than good.
In this debate we want to talk about three particular issues that arise with genetically modified crops and why the benefits are outweighed by these issues.
So firstly we were going to talk about the issue of variance between crops and that why that leads to legal and regulatory issues.
Secondly, we're going to talk about the environmental harms that come along with genetically modified crops.
And finally, we're going to talk about safety concerns and health.
So firstly on variance, unlike other types of produce growth whether it's from seeds of a similar breed or things of that nature, what happens with genetically modified crops is that because there's so much variance in the different places that produce these genetically modified crops there is so much variance and how these crops appear from farm-to-farm, from sea-to-sea.
It's very difficult to regulate the products that are being grown and while regulatory checks do exist, we don't think that these cover enough of the protocols, enough of these different variances that exist.
These invariances are important, because while studies in the status quo don't show that these are that these genetically modified crops largely have negative health effects, we think that this is possible to arise when you start tampering with the genetics of the food that you cons of the food that you're consuming, of the diseases that it may carry, of the impacts it might have on our own health.
And we think unless you have important regulatory checks, and really deep regulatory checks that are able to carry all variations of crops each individual individualized product being tested unless you're able to have that type of thing, the risk of some sort of long term health treatment of a batch of crops going out and getting people sick is simply too high.
But secondly, there's an issue of intellectual property that doesn't exist with other crops.
The reason for this is that unlike the idea of say an apple which doesn't have sort of intellectual property attached to it, once you modify the genetic sequence of that apple and produce your own strain of seed, your own strain of apple there becomes a question of whether or not an individual or a corporation can own the rights to that apple and how genetically different it needs to be from some sort of other apple other genetically modified crops to impute on property rights or intellectual property rights.
This is an important issue because it means that when these things go to market, they come with a whole background of legal troubles that could ultimately lead to a problem of the whole agricultural system.
If there are lawsuits between different agricultural providers, if they're different problems in discrepancies that occur in the legal system, we think that this, if we become reliant on the genetically modified crops and the perpetuation of those things, could lead to long-term risks and cut off and shortages crops.
Secondly, the environmental harms.
We think that another problem that comes with these crops is that they tend to be grown to be able to withstand environmental harshness.
They're grown and treated to be able to survive any sort of outcome.
So it's made so that bugs are less likely to affect it, that because of the lack of genetic variance they're less likely to be impacted by different environmental issues, and things like this.
The problem with that is that environmental ecosystems are incredibly delicate and when you do things like have a lack of genetic variance because say you're planning a whole field full of the same specific type of apple with the same specific seed genetic seed, what you have is a problem where soil doesn't get to nutrition it needs, flowers are less likely to grow and are less likely to propagate which means that you have an issue of bees dying out which is actually a major issue that exists right now, and you have a lack of biodiversity.
These things can also become invasive crops and have larger dramatic impacts on the ecosystem outside of the farm.
It also kills all animals and bugs that would otherwise be able to affect these crops, be able to eat these crops without the genetically modified aspect.
But again, these things are often bred to make these plants in these crops resistat to these bugs, which could have larger impacts on this on the ecosystem moving forward.
So, between the legal troubles that are wrapped up in genetically modified crops, the larger environmental risks that they pose to the world, and the fact that they simply cannot be tested to prove that they're safe at the level that is required due to the genetic variance, we think that on balance genetically modified crops bring more harm than good.