We should cancel the speed limit.
We think that something that is widely held to be true, but is simply not backed up by scientific evidence, is that if you drive at a faster speed, you are more likely to get into an accident.
We know that this is not the correlation that actually shows whether or not someone's going to get into an accident, but that other factors lead to a much higher likelihood of accidents than this.
So, that's what we're going to talk about in this round.
We're going to explain why speed is not the determiner of accidents, and then we're going to explain why nobody obeys the law anyway and why it's a bad law to have, because of the outcomes of having such a law.
So, firstly, why do people actually get into accidents?
Studies have shown that it is not the speed that someone is driving at but rather the variance in speed between different people on the highway, that if many different people are driving at many different speeds, you're much more likely to get into an accident.
And, if you have to vary your speed dramatically, for example, if you're going to a part of a highway that goes from a fifty mile per hour speed limit to a thirty-five mile per hour speed limit, these are areas where you're much more likely to get into an accident, because those around you are driving at dramatically different speeds.
Having a system in which instead of having designated speed limits for entire highways, you had a system in which people could drive as fast as they want to drive, however fast that was, but they had to move further into the left if they were going to go above a certain speed, that is a system that is more likely to alleviate accidents, because it ensures that all people within the same lane are driving at approximately similar speeds.
This is a system that is much more likely to lead to fewer accidents in the long run than having one in which people are distracted by speed limits, distracted by the variance in driving caused by speed limits and, in the status quo, often disobey the law anyway.
So, why does it matter that people disobey speed limit laws?
Why is this a reason that we should abolish these laws to begin with?
So, what speed limit laws end up doing in the status quo is they are a way for the government to raise funds and a way for the government to levy taxes in addition to the taxes they levy generally through fines.
People broadly don't obey the speed limit and in doing so, don't cause any more accidents than those that do obey the speed limit.
We think that the government shouldn't shouldn't set up a law that is specifically meant to simply fine people for taking a behavior when that behavior in and of itself does not have any negative externalities.
All that this does is assess taxes onto people that they weren't prepared to pay, which means it can have dramatic impacts on their quality of life and their ability to feed themselves from month to month, from week to week, especially when they didn't prepare to pay those taxes in the first place.
And, if they aren't able to pay a speeding ticket, if they aren't able to do these things, they could have their license suspended, they could have a variety of different harms levied against them, and they could ultimately have to pay much higher fees to appear in court and defend themselves.
All of these are reasons why we don't think that the speed limit should exist, because the fine that is associated with the speed limit is an incredibly detrimental one to any individual, especially people that are more impoverished than the average person, and because speed limit laws don't set up the types of protections that justify these types of harsh punishments.
Finally, we think that speed limit laws end up making people more distracted, because when people are on the road, they have to focus on ensuring that while they're speeding, which they are inevitably going to do, that they aren't doing so in front of a cop, around someone that may pull them over.
All of this leads to more distracted driving which, again, has a higher correlation to accidents than the actual speed you're going.
For these reasons, we should cancel the speed limit.