We should not ban multi-level marketing.
So in this round we think it's important to recognize that many practices that exist in our capitalist systems do not appeal to a lot of people.
There your are lots of jobs that people can do in lots of parts of that system that many people find repugnant.
But as part of a free state, as part of a free capitalist system we think that banning any sort of business or practice can only occur if it's causing a direct harm to people that are participating in it unknowing of those harms or those potential risks or if it creates some sort of direct third party harm that no one consented into and we don't think that either is the case with multi-level marketing.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that multi-level marketing of all shapes and sizes are really just pyramid schemes and that these are already illegal and as such, we should just recognize collectively that multi-level marketing systems are pyramid schemes that they only exist in order to richen those at the very top and they become more and more harmful to those on the bottom and because of that multi-level marketing is already illegal and clearly must be banned.
So we would say obviously that these are not pyramid schemes.
So first, legally they have been ruled not to be.
There have been court cases and lawsuits against multi-level marketing businesses but as such, they have not been ruled to be pyramid schemes already.
So let's talk about the credence of these claims.
We think more importantly, the distinction between multi-level marketing in the businesses that have that sort of structure and pyramid schemes is that while it is indisputably true that multi-level marketing in practice is a system in which most of the time the profits are going to the very top and the people at the bottom don't get as much.
They do have something that they are selling.
You can hypothetically make money as part of a multi-level marketing scheme without recruiting more people.
You could just move a lot of the product that you're selling or the service.
There's many types of multi-level marketing corporations and given that that's the case, we just think they are distinctly not a pyramid scheme because with a pyramid scheme you are banking on essentially investments growing for yourself and those investments are only getting yield because more and more people are putting money in and their investments are your yield and it's simply unsustainable.
But you can have a product that people want to buy and you can sell that and honestly there is there's in almost every corporation the type of top down inequality that you see in multi-level marketing operations exists in exactly the same way in most corporations and so given that that's the case, we think that they are legally and and in practice not pyramid schemes and should not be banned.
So the second argument that the government side makes is that they create dramatically unequal outcomes and horrible losses for most people.
So a business doesn't have to be fair to be legal.
All businesses have those who make more money than others and it's often a very dramatic way.
For example, amazon no one would argue that amazon should be made illegal but jeff bezos makes as much money in about five seconds as the average amazon factory worker or shipping worker and we think that this type of inequality is gross in many ways but it's not something that should be made illegal within our free market system and because of that, the kind of inequality of outcomes of multi-level marketing is not sufficient in order for it to be banned and we think that for those who operate at a loss due to participation in multi-level marketing, they had access to public knowledge about these things.
It is very well known at this point through different sorts of educational and public outcries that multi-level marketing is very risky.
They knew the risks that they were getting into and they took a risk in the free market not unlike any other entrepreneur.
Because of that, because there is no asymmetry of information, there's no direct third party harm, we should not ban multi-level marketing.