We should not further exploit geothermal energy.
Before we get into the debate about geothermal energy itself, we want to give an overview about something that we think is crucial to this debate.
In the status quo, there are simply limited financial resources in this world and investment opportunities for green technology.
This means that there's a tradeoff between this type of green technology, geothermal energy, and other types of green technology, and the reason for this tradeoff is that it is still the case that green technology is not as profitable as fossil fuels.
It is still the case that it's not used as often.
And while it may be in the future, we're talking about a debate that takes place in the status quo in a framework in which there simply aren't infinite resources for this type of energy.
So that's what we want to talk about this debate is that maybe geothermal energy is preferable to fossil fuels, but we think in a world with limited resources for green technology, there are other types of green tech, such as solar and wind power, that are better deserving of those funds.
And it's good to have green funding in a few fields because the more you invest in one particular field, the more you have exponential technological advancement.
When you invest more money into one field rather than splitting that money into two fields, it means that you can get greater and greater growth in the efficiency of those types of green technology, which means that you can do more good with simply one type of green tech than you can with two.
But given that that's the case, let's talk about geothermal energy in a comparative sense.
First, in terms of economic impact, it is first noteworthy to say that in some cases in which it's done poorly, geothermal energy and the production of it can cause earthquakes.
Now, yes, this is relatively rare, but in the sense that this can occur, those are obviously detrimental impacts compared to, say, green solar technology, in which there's no type of geological impact from that type of technology.
It also leads to some carbon emissions and greenhouse gas emissions because of the types of vapors that are let out from the earth, and this is just and while it's less than fossil fuels, again, certainly not comparatively beneficial compared to solar technology.
Given that these are alternative types of green energy that don't harm the environment and that green technology exists primarily to try and protect the environment, clearly we think geothermal energy falls on that front.
Secondarily, geothermal energy has two problems technologically.
First, there is incredibly high upfront cost compared to other types of technologies.
The type of upfront investment you need in order to in order to produce a geothermal geothermal station is much, much higher than the amount of investment we need to put into, say, creating a solar car.
And the technology is also just, as far as efficiency, not as advanced as wind or solar.
Finally, unlike other types of energy, again, such like wind and solar, geothermal energy is very limited based on the region that you can use it in compared to other green technology.
It can only be done in very specific regions.
Much like oil can only be drilled for in very specific regions, the same is true of geothermal energy.
But geothermal energy simply doesn't it isn't able to produce the excess of energy that oil is and therefore, location is important.
We don't think you should waste your money on this type of resource if it's not usable or easy to adopt for a large portion of the population of the planet, because we need a large portion of the population of this planet to move to green technology if we're going to make a meaningful dent in the impact of global warming in the status quo.
Compared to something like solar energy which has had a proven track record at this point, which already has immense amounts of investment, which means you get more value for the investment you put in now than you would for geothermal energy, we think it's clear we should not further exploit geothermal energy.