We should subsidize single parents.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it's important to subsidize single parents.
The first one we wanna talk about is about mitigating harms of single parenthood.
So recognize as an overview to this point that many single parents did not choose to have their child but they still are responsible for that child's well being whether this is because they couldn't afford to have an abortion, or it's because they were living in an area where you couldn't afford an abortion, or several other reasons you may not have fully consented to having that child.
We think there are many many of the harms that come of being a single parent like the harms that are accrued on children in single parent households are due to financial limitations that do not apply to many traditional families or families with duel with duel incomes.
For example: just an overall lack of money from single income which means that children are often forced to be fed less, they're forced to have lower quality of housing, they're forced to have lower quality of medical care, all these things that are accrued that are simply impacts of poverty but are duplicated when you're spreading on already low income between two individuals.
There's also a lack of time for to help students with school or to spend money on things like extracurricular activities that are meant to build up a child's opportunities and things like this.
We think that subsidizing these families is important to protect the children.
Even if you don't think that single parents should have children, if you think that children are born if you think that parents should just either have an abortion or not have sex until they're married or whatever reason, if you just fundamentally don't believe that these people should have children, that children are born into the situations are not something that they choose.
No child is born saying I want to be a born to a single parent, nor do they have any sort of ability to choose that thing.
We think subsidizing helps to even a playing field that was set by the lottery of birth.
We think it makes up for a cosmic injustice that has been done to the children of single parents.
We think the state is obligated to protect those in the state especially those that are most vulnerable, people that have that that have had harms done onto them through no fault of their own.
But secondarily, we want to talk about freedom for family planning.
Duel families are an idea based on outdated patriarchal notions.
The idea that you must have a breadwinner in the fatherly role and a domestic person in the motherly role.
We think that parenthood is something that many people think is core to the good life.
There are people that fundamentally believe that in order to live a fulfilling and meaningful life, they must have a child and we don't think you should have access to that type of self-actualization limited by financial reasons.
Often these financial and oftentimes these financial limitations are not the fault of the people themselves but rather of the situations they were born into, of the level of poverty they were in when they first started in their lives, things that are very hard to break out of.
We don't think that financial capacity is equal to parental capacity and we think the same is true in the other direction.
We think that there are plenty of parents out there, plenty of dual parent households, in which children are neglected and harmed and aren't shown the love that these other people, these single parents, could otherwise give to those children and just because those people have money does not mean that they have moral integrity.
It does not mean that they have any sort of knack for raising a child or anything like that.
But there are good wholesome people in this world who are limited by financial limitations beyond their control who'd be excellent parents and given the lack of those in the world, I don't think that we should be discouraging it by not providing these people with a subsidy.
For these reasons, we should subsidize single parents.