We should not ban alternative medicine.
When we're talking about alternative medicine, we're talking about all types of medical treatment, medication, pills, prescriptions, what have you, that are not scientifically tested, have not gone through FDA regulations and approval processes, and have not been shown to have demonstrably proven health effects as other medications have.
That's what we're talking about specifically in this round.
Rather than ban it, we're going to take more reasonable approach on the opposition side of the debate.
What we would instead do is, firstly, regulate where these types of things can be sold, so don't have them sold in the same parts of pharmacies as, say, ibuprofen, motrin, other over-the-counter pills that are proven to be scientifically effective.
And secondly, we're going to restrict the way in which these things are advertised, so we're not going to allow for false advertisement.
We're not going to allow these types of products to say, "demonstrably proven to do x ", but we're going to allow them to put on their labels other things that would make them appealing, just not things that are going to lie to consumers.
And thirdly, if there are scientific studies that show that these things have negative health effects, rather than banning them, we're going to force them, like we do with cigarettes and other hazardous products all the time, to put these types of warnings prominently on advertising labels so that people can make informed decisions.
But we think that this is a much more reasonable starting point than the starting point of a ban and so, we're gonna talk firstly about free choice and secondly about the comparative between alternative medicine and pharmaceuticals as they exist in the mainstream.
We think that free choice and bodily autonomy are the fundamental aspects of what make humanity or what drives our humanity from.
What makes us human is our ability to express our free choice.
We think that the government should educate people because through education, you are more able to use your free and rational agency in ways that you can predict the outcomes.
You're better able to use that agency effectively to achieve the ends that you want.
Once the government steps in and ensures that regulation exists so that people can form educated opinions, once that process has occurred, we think that people should be allowed to use their own volition in making these choices.
Firstly, we think that especially when it comes to what you're going to put in your body, what impact what might impact your bodily chemistry, your composition, your makeup, your health.
All these things we think are incredibly personal to an individual, and given that these things don't have negative effects on others, so if I choose to take alternate medicine, my health may decrease because of that, but the health of those around me doesn't decrease which makes this different from things like cigarettes and other types of social ills.
Given that this is the case and given that there is no impediment of other people's free and rational choice when people choose to make the when choose to take alternative medicine, we don't think that people should be restricted in this way.
But also, alternative medicine has perceived effects and we think that this is important.
When it comes to health, what matters is the ability or the impact that people feel in their lives.
So even if someone is taking a pill that doesn't do anything, if it makes them think that their headaches are going away and because of that they don't have as many headaches, if it makes them think that they're losing weight and because of that they choose to go to the gym more often, they choose to live more active lifestyle, we think that that is a positive and we think that people should be able to make those decisions.
Finally in the comparative, what the proposition team needs to recognize is that pharmaceuticals and normal medicine, mainstream medicine, aren't all that great for you.
Recognize that in the status quo, pharmaceuticals are: one, largely overprescribed, which has massive health impacts, such as addiction on people later on in life.
Two, there are many dangerous side effects to these medications which is similar to that of alternative medicine.
And three, these aren't much worse in a comparative sense.
Why is this the case?
Because when it comes to the natural side effects that can occur from medication and the propensity for addiction, especially for things like opioids, which are massively overprescribed, we think that people should be able to use and make their free choice not to opt into that system, to choose an alternate path rather than the one that has already demonstrated to lead to hazards in the future.
And for this reason, you should not ban alternative medicine.