We should subsidize electric cars.
So, our model is very simple.
We're going to say that you should give people tax breaks when they purchase electric cars, and you should also give tax breaks to the producers and manufacturers of those cars, so sales tax breaks for them and probably income tax breaks or other types of tax exemptions for those that are purchasing the cars.
We have one argument and it's about global warming.
We would say that global warming is the largest threat to humanity's survival in the status quo, and electric cars put us along the right path to fix that problem.
So, let's talk about the impacts that global warming projected to have, the trajectory of that, and how electric cars can help.
First, on the impact.
There are a few dramatic impacts of global warming in the short term that we're already observing in our day-to-day life.
First, there are more extreme weather occurrences, things like hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, heat waves, extreme blizzards.
These things become far more commonplace when the weather becomes more erratic, when the patterns are more erratic, when you heat keep the oceans, and when more water floods into the world and starts flooding cities, when polar ice caps melt.
That's the that's another impact is that cities are at an incredibly high risk, especially cities that are below sea level such as new orleans and amsterdam, because when sea levels rise, these cities could become underwater.
Major trade ports, major areas of human life could be at massive risk.
There's also more unpredictable rain and seasons which impacts the ability for people to grow food, and things like immensely long droughts are going to lead to conflict over both food and water.
These things are going to tear communities apart, and the problem is imminent.
We need immediate reduction of fossil fuel emissions just to stave off the worst impacts of global warming, let alone the beginning of the impacts that I already discussed.
Given that this is an imminent need, we think that anything that will lower fossil fuel emissions is something that must be adopted.
Electric cars are one of those things that are along that path to fix the problem.
There are many people who commute and go to work every day, and those commuters exhume massive amounts of fossil fuels and CO two emissions on a daily basis.
We think that subsidies are effective, that these subsidies are going to get people to adopt electric vehicles, because the political view towards electric vehicles is already skewing in their favor.
Whereas maybe ten years ago, these things were viewed as those objects that only rich people on the left got, now they're viewed as more of a reasonable investment, and we think that subsidies are one of those things that puts people over the edge.
If you subsidize producers, they can lower costs, and if you subsidize consumers, they can afford to take on more cost.
We also think that they're generally more cost-efficient than gas cars are anyway and at this point, they're a good regardless of the impact on global warming.
The reason that you need to subsidize these things are even though people are already pushing towards using electric cars, this is a good subsidy, because it is a direct and clear impact on the public well-being.
It's worth the fungible tradeoff if it gets us to adopt electric cars, something that we're probably going to do in the long term anyway, faster, if it gets more people to adopt these things, if it gets more people not omitting fossil fuels and CO two on a daily basis on their on their commute to work, this is something that we need to take on, not just for our present, but also for our future.
It's something that we owe our children, and it's something we need to do if we're going to start going down the path to survival rather than the path of devastation.
For these reasons, we should subsidize electric cars.