We should not ban the church of scientology.
In this round, we're gonna make a few arguments about why we think banning the search the church of scientology would be incredibly problematic.
The first argument we want to make , that kind of sets the foundation for this debate, is that we think that the freedom of religion must be maintained.
Religion is a personal belief, a faith-based belief that someone has in order to feel comfort, in order to feel that there's a source of redemption, a source of moral good, and a code that they should follow in order to live a good life.
It's something that is incredibly personal to an individual and is something that, as a liberal state, we think should be allowed to be maintained by individuals.
Religion is one of the most fundamental aspects of human life, dating back to the very beginning of civilization.
It's something that is almost an intuitive thing that we hold, this desire, this yearning to have some sort of belief in a higher power, some sort of belief in something that is above ourselves.
And we think it's important that the state not interfere in the ability for people to choose which religions they will and will not follow.
And it's incredibly difficult to derive some sort of definitive difference between something like a cult, which is what many people claim the church of scientology is, and a religion, because cults and religions often have similar tenets.
They also have they often have a belief in some sort of a moral code.
They have a belief in a higher power.
They have a belief that they are driven to act in certain ways by a divine by a divine being in some way, shape or form, and scientology has many parts of what you would expect out of religion.
If you actually look at the practices of scientology, there's an idea of a structured hierarchy that goes above oneself.
There's an idea of redemption.
There's an idea of an annihilation.
There's an idea of an end world.
These are all things that are similar to other religions found throughout the world, and so it's difficult to actually say that the church of scientology is not a real religion, is not a religion that people should be able to choose.
And so we think that picking and choosing which religions that we are going to allow people to participate in violates that fundamental freedom of religion.
Now, of course, we think it's fine to say that if a church organization, if an organization at all is doing something illegal, if under the name of religion, they're doing something that is illegal, something like kidnapping or threatening someone's family which the church of scientology has been accused of, then it's fine to prosecute individuals within that church, because that is not a religious behavior.
That is a criminal behavior.
But when it comes to actually allowing the church of scientology to exist and to allow people to practice their faith in the church of scientology, no matter how absurd it may seem to those on the outside, we think that as the freedom of religion is a fundamental part of human life, is a fundamental freedom that we give within the liberal state, we shouldn't just say that because outsiders view the church of scientology as absurd, that it's something that we should ban.
You could make arguments about christianity being absurd as well: this idea that someone that the son of god was literally manifested on earth and that he died and somehow that washed away all of our sins, and then after death, he was resurrected, with no sort of fossil evidence for this thing ever having occurred.
It's easy to poke holes in any religion that you want to poke holes in.
All of them can be made absurdist in a way but when you start choosing which religions are viable, which religions are legitimate and which are not, you enter a slippery slope into the state that ultimately leads to mass violation of that freedom of religion.
For these reasons, we should not ban the church of scientology.