We should not subsidize journalism.
In this round we're going to make two main arguments about why subsidizing journalism would be an active harm to our society.
The first is that subsidizing journalism would skew journalistic independence, and the second is that the free market solves already and this is an unnecessary subsodu.
So on the first part, in the status quo, journalism is largely independent from the states in most free democratic countries and there are strong protections like the freedom of the press to ensure that journalists can inform the public without impediment.
Journalism in the status quo is an incredibly important tool for informing the public.
If you want to have an active democracy, if you want to have a democracy that makes wise decisions, we think it's necessary to have a robust journalism and a robustly informed public that comes with that.
Once we subsidize journalism, the government starts having a say in which outlets get funding.
In the status quo all journalism has equal protection and under the free market mechanisms of trying to inform the public, the market decides which journalists are allowed to survive but there's no government favor in this type of a process.
But once the government starts to get involved, journalism needs to adapt in order to secure that funding.
Once there is funding available we think businesses are obviously going to try to retain that funding in order to improve their standing.
We think journalists when this is the case are going to have more are going to be more prone to flattery of the side that's in power so that when they make decisions the journalists are looked upon in a favorable manner but more importantly we think they're less likely to publish controversial pieces that could damage a damage a politician reputation.
Look at recent history in the amount of scandals and sexual harassment claims that are coming out against politicians in the united states.
We think that these types of stories are less likely to get heard because journalists and newspapers don't want to be the don't have to don't want to face the wrath of losing a subsidy especially if that subsidy is otherwise going to go to a competitor.
So we think that once you have this type of subsidy in journalism, you're losing major amount of information for the public and it makes it less likely that that robust democracy is going to have an informed public.
But secondly, why do we think the free market solves?
Why do we think journalism doesn't need the subsidy to begin with?
While it's true that old print media may be dying out, we would say that journalism is as strong as ever.
We think there's more ways to monetize online than ever before the way of advertising is getting much more creative it's getting much more attention as more people are going online.
There's also more of an ability for small outlets to get a chance.
The types of different outlets for media, the types of publications online, have grown sporadically in the last ten years because there's an online audience that craves this type of information.
The online audience is younger, it's it tends to be skewed in a more informed way and it tends to be more intensely consuming this type of medium so there's more eyes and there's more attention that's up for grabs than ever before.
There's also more avenues to consume journalism so it's much easier to get an opportunity to put your information, to put your news, in front of eyes that are going to consume it and then generate a revenue.
We also think there's more openness for investigation with that highly tuned in public and so there's more opportunity for someone to put in really intense and integral investigative journalism together in order to get the eyes of a public that wants to consume that news.
In the status quo, while it's true print media may not be may not be going forward that is more of a change in technology sign that news media is suddenly dying out.
We think that having political money in journalism only makes it less likely to inform the public and for these reasons we should not subsidize journalism.