We should not abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
In this round, we're going to make three main arguments about why we think the right to bear arms, once it is in place, is something that is crucial to protect.
The first argument we want to make is one about protection from tyranny.
Recognize the state is essentially a massive coercive apparatus.
It has virtually unchecked power over what it can dictate people can do and it has the ability to enforce that through things like police police units, through military forces, through an immense security apparatus and spying operation.
The state has large control to see into the lives of what people are doing and to force them to behave in certain ways if they want them to behave differently.
We think removing the right to bear arms means that the state can have sole control over those arms, meaning there's no check on state tyranny.
If the state is the only actor that has possession of arms, then if the state chooses to be tyrannical, something that we've seen time and again is states sink into oppression, sink into regimes that act ultimately for themselves and not the people, that means that the people are at a massive disadvantage in trying to check that tyranny.
Some may say that the army would uprise, the army would fight against that tyranny.
But, again, we've seen people who are in power pull those levers of power to keep the army happy and to keep the oppression continuing.
We think that having a strong right to bear arms makes it much more difficult for the most overt types of oppression to occur, and especially once it's in place, we should maintain it.
That's the second thing we want to talk about.
We think that there's a problem with retracting rights.
Once a right is given, we think that people have an expectation of that right.
They plan their lives with that right in mind.
They choose where they're going to live.
They choose what actions they're going to take with that right in mind.
We think that once a right has been promised by the state, removing that right is unjust.
Think about the standard that that sets.
If a state can simply choose to remove rights whenever they see fit, then there's no protection for rights at all.
That's what makes rights distinct from things like laws and things like preferences is that there's something that is ironclad and promised within our society.
So once a right is given, we don't think it is just to take it away, and we think it sets a bad precedent if it can just be removed.
Finally, we think that restrictions solve for many of the problems that come with this right.
While people point to the US as having a gun problem, we think that restrictions can solve for those types of things.
The US doesn't have a problem that guns are readily available.
The US has a problem in that that right is unchecked, something that is not the case for the vast majority of rights in our society.
We think that there are simple solutions, such as having background checks to make sure that people that are buying firearms aren't people that are either mentally unhealthy or people that are likely to commit crimes with those guns and those weapons in the future.
We also think that certain things like having restrictions on felons owning guns and having restrictions on certain weapons, such as automatic rifles, is something that you can put in place while still allowing for the people to check against the potential of a tyrannical government.
Look at other nations and how they've been able to do this.
See switzerland for an example.
Switzerland has about half a gun for every person in its nation.
It is a very high gun ownership rate compared to much of the world, and yet it has incredibly low gun violence.
And that's because their gun culture is one that: one, has lots of these restrictions in place to ensure safety, but two, teaches children from a young age how to responsibly use firearms.
We don't think that removing this right altogether is the way to go in order to ensure that people aren't harmed by firearms, especially because it provides a threat of tyranny moving forward.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the right to keep and bear arms.