We should ban extreme sports.
So, extreme sports is a pretty broad term, but generally we're talking about things like skydiving, bungee jumping, motor racing, things that are not standardized, so they don't have some sort of standardized performance and and metrics that govern how the sport is behaved, they're largely individualized, and they are most noteworthy because they have a much higher risk of not just injury itself, but once individuals are injured, it's much higher propensity of injuries that can be life threatening compared to other sports.
So this can be seen pretty clearly in that while bungee jumpers, for the most part, you know most bungee jumpers don't get hurt, when bungee jumpers do get hurt they can face life threatening injuries, whereas for example basketball players may get hurt at a similar clip as bungee jumpers, but there are very very few lethal injuries that can be accumulated from basketball.
Okay.
So what are we going to argue today.
Firstly what we're going to tell you is that these types of sports are, by their nature, incredibly dangerous compared to most other sports.
We think that the government's first and foremost obligation is to ensure that citizens are protected, and that their lives are not put at undue risk.
We understand that freedom freedom of behavior is an important part of accessing what one perceives as their good life, and that individuals, for the most part, should be able to make decisions that they see fit for their own bodies when those decisions don't otherwise have an adverse effect on society, which extreme sports seems to fit as those decisions that should be able to be freely made.
But we would say that before you can guarantee these types of freedoms that individual seek to have, you must first ensure that their liberty, or their bodily safety or their bodily health, can be protected and we think that extreme sports are those types of sports that don't allow this to be the case.
And furthermore, if you look at the demographics of those that watch extreme sports, and the growing interest in extreme sports, these are largely amongst young individuals that don't know about the amount of training and preparation, and the and cannot properly internalize the risks that extreme that extreme sports presents when they make the decision to do these types of things.
We think that these are largely impressionable people, and while individuals are en masse very very poor long-term planners, the people that are interested in extreme sports in the status quo are even worse than the average individual, because they're much younger and it's hard for them to visualize the actual and internalize the actual risk of extreme sports.
And we think in these instances, the government is justified in banning these types of activities, because it must first and foremost protect life before it can protect freedom.
Secondly, we would say that traditional sports have benefits that these sports don't have.
So for example, traditional sports can increase fitness, can increase team building and work ethic in individuals, but these types of benefits are not are are not a part of extreme sports just because of the nature of these sports.
They're not team based, you don't necessarily need to train for long periods of time to be you don't need to train your body for long periods of time to do these things, so they don't increase your physical fitness to the same degree of other sports, and again, the the danger of them is so much higher, the degree of risk is so much higher in these sports, that the only real benefit that can come from these things is an adrenaline rush that people feel in the moment.
We think that this means that fundamentally there are no real gains that can be derived from extreme sports that other sports have going for them, and what we what this means is that when you're weighing whether or not the government should act in this instance, there's very little to weigh in favor of these extreme sports besides the freedom to be able to do what you want.
But as I've already explained, this freedom is not cannot fundamentally override the government's obligation to protect life first and foremost.
Because extreme sports present an undue threat to that life with very little gain at the end of the day for those that participate in them, we should ban extreme sports.