We should ban gambling.
So, just to be clear in this debate, we're not talking about regulating like small poker games, between friends in their house, and coming with the police and breaking those up.
We don't really care about that in this debate.
What we're talking about is the institution and the market of gambling.
So what we're going to do specifically is we're going to shut down three different avenues.
We're going to shut down all casinos, we're going to end lotteries done by the state, and we're going to end online sports, and other types of gambling, that are done online.
So, if people bet on events, this this often occurs with sports, but it also occurs, for example, there are betting markets for politics, there are betting markets on the economy itself.
These are usually in the form of futures, we're going to ban all sort of speculative gambling on events in the world.
So, there are websites that host these things, we'd shut down those websites, and of course there would be hefty penalties if any of these things were violated.
Okay, two main arguments, the first is about the inefficient use of capital, and the second is about addiction, and why that's so problematic.
So, firstly, we would say that gambling is a non productive use of spending, it's a non productive use of assets, and what this means is that, when people spend their money on gambling, when they spend their money in order to gamble, there's no productive gain, that is derived from that, there's no creation of more assets, there's no creation of an accumulation of value.
It's simply using your assets to try and get the assets of someone else, and this isn't a productive use of capital, and what's more important is that these games are fundamentally rigged.
In order to have a profitable casino, in order to have a profitable lottery, or any type of thing, these games need to be devised in such a way, in which it is possible for a small amount of people to win, but the vast majority of people are mathematically going to lose.
And what this means is that gambling amounts, essentially, to a massive wealth transfer from poor individuals, who are the ones that are more likely to be gambling, to richer individuals.
Whether this takes the form of the state hosting the lottery, or it takes the form of ownership casinos, or gambling sites in which the casinos always win or these gambling sites take a percentage.
And what this means is that there's a net social harm, because capital is being transferred from the poor to the wealthy, which means the worst off become more worst off fundamentally en mass, from gambling, and we think that this creates a social issue that the state has an obligation to address, in the form of banning gambling.
And again, this isn't something that you can just regulate, to take away these effects, it is a fundamental part of gambling, that the poor lose money to the rich, and that there is a transfer of wealth that is regressive in nature, and we think that is a reason that the government needs to step in, and stop this.
Secondly, on addiction.
So addiction may not gambling addiction may not be a widely discussed issue, but it is a problem that many people experience, and we think that banning gambling, at least in this institutional sense, is more likely to stop people from becoming addicted in the first place, and gambling addiction can have real very problematic long term outcomes.
Whether this comes in the form of people putting forward a vast majority of their assets, in order to continue to gamble, in a way that ultimately can harm, not just themselves, but any other member of their household, or people that do business with this individual.
And furthermore, if people have a gambling addiction they can be driven underground, into gambling in arenas, in which you could have real violations of your bodily autonomy, and real harms, physical harms brought onto an individual, if they don't pay their debts.
And gambling gambling addiction in particular creates a cycle, in which you continue to gamble in order to try and remake the money that you've lost.
So, this is a really severe problem, that we think the government ought to address.
Gambling has no net social utility.
It is an unproductive use of capital, and it is a harm to those that end up becoming involved in gambling in the long run.
And for these reasons, we should ban gambling.