We should subsidize recycling.
As a model for this motion, we would say that the government should do two things primarily to subsidize recycling.
First, more recycling plants should be built and we think that these plants should be entirely publicly funded and the jobs that require that are required to work these plans those can also be public works jobs.
Secondarily, we would also provide a stipend or a subsidy, a little bit of a a tax kickback to people that actively recycle.
This could be monitored through pick-up crews or some other through some other mechanism but we think somehow people should get some sort of a small kickback for recycling which builds up over a large scale.
First, let's talk about global warming and environmental degradation.
We think that it goes without saying that global warming is a major problem.
It is obvious at this point and the science is clear that global warming is man made and that it is largely caused by human activity.
It's leading to things like rising sea levels with which threaten major economic hubs and large population centers around the world.
It's also doing things like causing more natural disasters and more not only just more as in having a larger number of them but also the scale of them, the damage that's being done by them is increasing each and every year.
Fighting global warming we think, recycling fights global warming by cutting out the production process.
Every time that a new item needs to be built, every time that a new tree is destroyed, or every time that some sort of resource is used and turned into a different thing, we think that this creates harm in the production process cause largely the energy that's being used in that production process is not clean energy.
We also think it creates harmful landfills and that that leak out horrible you know problematic vapors that lead to an increased greenhouse effect.
But secondarily, there's also environmental degradation that's going on and this is happening at an immense scale to human due to human growth.
There is vast deforestation across the world in order to make room for new urban hubs.
There's large areas and plains that are being taken up by population centers and population and the growth of human activity has made it harder for ecosystems to cope and these are sensitive things and these are these ecosystems are very sensitive to deforestation and pollution because those the animals in those ecosystems are very temperamental.
Shifts in the shifts in the temperature, shifts in the availability of space, this can cause massive population decline and even extinction and this is what you're empirically seeing.
These areas can't just be brought back.
After a a species is extinct and an ecosystem is destroyed it is gone forever.
We think that environmental balance is crucial because the butterfly effect of wiping out one species or wiping out one ecosystem can trickle down to every human ecosystem in the world.
Wiping out say a species of spider could lead to a plague spreading from an overture of mosquitoes and things like that and that's just one example of how ecosystem destruction can harm people.
Secondarily, we also think this is just a good use of subsidy.
We think that the principal of a subsidy is that because you're using public funds that are largely being taken without the consent of the people, the subsidy needs to be just by providing a few things.
First, a large public good and we think that's clearly the case as helping the environment is good for everyone.
It doesn't discriminate.
Secondarily, it has to be accessible to many people and again this is clearly the case.
Everyone is able to take advantage of the subsidy.
Everyone is able to recycle.
We think that this is clearly widely accessible and finally, it needs to lead to meaningful change.
In the status quo, people simply are not recycling and the infrastructure does not exist for it to happen at a massive scale.
We think that introducing a subsidy makes a major change to that and will lead to sizable gains that wouldn't otherwise occur.
For these reasons, we should subsidize recycling.