Nationalism does more harm than good.
What's important to recognize about nationalism right at the outset is that it doesn't arise from anything natural about the peoples that express nationalist attitudes.
There's nothing about german nationalists or french nationalists or chinese nationalists that makes those types of groups uniquely combined to each other and in fact most of these groups grew out of a very distinct cultural subsections prior to the eighteenth century.
For example in germany there was no german state prior to the eighteenth century.
It was a conglomeration of many different german and frankish kingdoms that came together to form a modern state, and the modern state is about when these attitudes eventually arose within our society.
So it's important to recognize that there's nothing fundamentally human about nationalism, there's nothing that combines these populations in any unique way.
Between the fact that they neighbor each other and in some instances share cultural bonds though when you allow for nationalism and when nationalism arises in the way that it has in the last two centuries, it allows for new different cultural bonds to be formed which are frankly exclusive in many ways and most importantly arbitrary in their creation.
They're simply made in order to enforce this idea of national identity and national community that doesn't exist and is often a tool of those empowered by nationalism to use that nationalism as a guise for fascism.
But firstly, before I get on to that I think it's important to talk about why nationalism is simply a bad political force within the world.
Nationalism by its definition is exclusionary.
In order to celebrate a nation you must create distinctions between that nation and those around it and while some would argue for a cosmopolitan nationalism that allows for people to celebrate their nation simply because it's something that is diverse and beautiful, such as the united states and the idea of the melting pot, firstly, this isn't how nationalism actually arises in the world.
Nationalism is more often in more often the case, nationalism is the force that says: my national identity group, my my ethnicity, my regional nation, any sort of group is is better than other groups that border me, or that there's something that makes them distinct that makes them superior.
This false superiority creates a a sense of xenophobia throughout the world, which is one reason why there's, in the, in europe right now there's such a hesitancy to to accept refugees from syria, and from other war torn areas in the middle east and northern and northern africa.
This is because there's this idea that there's some sort of benefits that we read from our nation that are exclusive the benefits for our nation.
That because we are where we are we have earned the goods and resources that we get from these regions.
But we only get these benefits because of the arbitrary nature of where we were born and what our region happens to have and what it can give us.
There's no one more deserving of getting these sort of political goods whether it be a stable government or representative democracy than people that are fleeing to these areas as refugees.
It's just the luck of where they were born.
Given that this is the case we think that nationalism becomes an exclusionary political philosophy that only harms the most disenfranchised people like refugees, who are not able to access the goods that they desperately need.
We also think that it creates divisions within a society itself.
It means that people that have become part of this communities, say minority groups in in largely white european countries, feel excluded from their own society.
Whether it's through ideas of nationalism that simply don't create an image of the nation that includes them, or it's more overt and direct threats.
That come from largely far right groups that use nationalism as a guise for fascism.
And this the other problem with nationalism.
It's that when you create xenophobic senses within a state that creates this sort of false superiority that my nation is better than your nation, it allows for strong man leaders to stand up and say: I'm going to protect the nation.
I'm going to ensure the nation rises to its former glory, and these sort of robust senses of pride in the nation allow for these people to get away with crimes and other sorts of corruption that allow them to enrich themselves while at the same time creating strong men groups that create serious threats to democracy not just in developed but also in not just in developing nations but also developed nations such as greece where the xri'si party is rising, and france with marine la pen, in england with braxit and with united states and donald trump.
All of these people use nationalism as a way to try and fuel their political anger that their people feel and it only creates more divisions within our society which is frankly contradictory to the global ideas that have been set forth for the past for the past sixty or seventy years of post world war two, peace and prosperity that's occurred.
For these reasons we think that nationalism has certainly done more harm than good.