We should not subsidize massive open online courses.
So we think that there's something that's important to recognize right from the top and that is the fungibility of subsidies.
That when you when you give a subsidy to one entity, to one business, to one field of work, you are putting money into that field of work that is not naturally there.
You're putting money into that area that is paid for through taxation whether it be through giving tax breaks to them or by giving them money directly out of the taxpayers' pockets.
This is not only important to recognize because it means that when you give something a subsidy there must be some sort of public good that is coming from it, otherwise you're using public sons public funds to serve a non public good, or it means that there must be some sort of externality, some sort of benefit that outweighs the other trade offs that are coming because these subsidies are also fungible.
There's a fungible amount of money that you can give out in subsidies to different fields.
So that's what we're going to focus on in this debate.
That firstly, these courses are already thriving and it's a waste of a trade off, it's a waste of those fungible resources.
And secondly, that a degree is much more valuable to getting a job than knowledge itself and this presents sort of a false promise to people.
Alright so, on that first point, given that the point of a subsidy is to lift something up we want to recognize that these types of courses are already thriving.
That big institutions, like harvard and princeton and MIT, already publish almost already publish large courses, and a huge number of them, onto their websites in order for people to view these courses for free.
There are also other sources of other sources of education such as online courses that are being presented on youtube, online courses that are on private sites like the great courses plus, these are all entities that are already putting this type of service out there and are doing a phenomenal job of it.
There are millions of people that learn through these courses of various on various platforms every single day.
Given that this is the case, we don't see a necessary reason for the government to intervene and put money into these entities.
Given that is a fungible resource, as I've already explained, we think that there are other areas that need investment desperately that this money could better be used in.
For example, america and america has a system of infrastructure that is crumbling.
Given that this is the case and that this is an area that clearly could be helped we think that the money that otherwise could have been used to subsidize these courses could be diverted into infrastructure.
Maybe it doesn't make a large dent in the infrastructure problem but it does more net good than a subsidy in this field would be doing given that they are already flourishing.
The other problem as I've the other point that we're going to bring up is that a degree is just much more valuable to getting a job than knowledge itself.
The reason for this is two polled is is twofold.
The reason that a degree is so valuable is because it provides it provides name recognition of the college that you attended and it's a signaling effect to potential job offers that says, I'm qualified because I went to this area, because I went to this school, it's less about the degree you receive and more about the networking opportunities that you get from that degree that allow you to have more doors open to you in the future and that name recognition that comes immediately when you walk into a door for a job interview.
These are things that, no matter how developed these online courses become, they will never be able to offer.
Given that that is the case, we think that these online courses are often a false promise to people.
It sends a signal that you can get just as good of an education if you go online to these sources but at the end of the day you're not able to get the same types of benefits that come from those courses because yes, you may be able to get the same type of education but you're not getting the same benefits of that education, the same benefits of the institution in the long run.
And for these reasons we should not subsidize massive open online courses.