Not increase fuel tax.
So we want to start with an overview about what we think the increase in fuel taxes is meant to accomplish and from there we're going to explain why it doesn't accomplish those things and in fact only levees higher taxes on people that cannot afford to pay them.
So we think that the goal of a fuel tax is to get people to use fewer fossil fuels.
Historically this has been the purpose of such a tax.
It's to try and get people to switch from fossil fuels to using more energy efficient renewable resources.
The problem is this does a poor job of accomplishing that while causing new harms.
So we're going to explain firstly why there is no alternative infrastructure that actually allows people to make these switches, and why we think even if you're just trying to punish people who use fossil fuels, you're taxing the wrong people.
Okay, so on that first point.
Fossil fuels are a as much a desire as a necessity in regards to why people use them.
It simply cheaper than converting your home to an electric or some sort of other alternative energy grid.
And what's important to realize is that the vast majority of energy that comes into peoples' residences, the vast majority of energy that we use on a day to day basis in our in our electrical output is all generated from from fossil fuels in one shape or another.
The only way that you can switch this type of thing is to get yourself off the grid entirely and to use things like electrical panels on your housing and install batteries that can store the energy.
The problem is this technology is very expensive in the status quo and because there are only a few providers it's very hard to get those those types of those types of electronics, those types of set ups made for your house.
The other thing that people often use fossil fuels for is driving, and it's just simply to the the case that in the status quo charging stations for vehicles are not convenient.
They aren't plentiful enough for people to be able to use them on a normal basis and it costs a lot of money to charge your car in your house.
So given that this is the case, there's a lack of infrastructure that is apparent that is a major driver and why people use fossil fuels.
We need to make these types of changes before a new fuel tax can have any sort of effect.
In essence this just pushes more of a tax burden on people for living their life and doing day to day activities.
So that's the next thing we're gonna talk about: taxing the wrong people.
If you just want to tax people in order for them to bear the cost of the harms that fossil fuels cause, this is a poor way of doing it.
Recognize that there is a market inefficiency in the status quo, where there is a negative externality that fossil fuels create that are being paid for in the status quo.
The costs of increasing global warming, the cost of increasing sea levels, all these things are costs that are negative externalities of the fossil fuel business but those costs are currently being assessed on the business itself.
And a fuel tax focuses on cost to the consumer not to producer.
See exactly what I explained and how people simply cannot convert over to alternative energy sources.
Given that this is the case we think you should rather create a different tax that's actually targeted those who drill and produce excess fossil fuels, creating a more fair market for electric alternatives to spring up.
And this is what we think is actually going to get people to transition over.
For example, you could have an excise tax on individuals that hold stock in places like exxon and mobil, you could have a specific tax on c level executives of fossil fuel industries, all these things that more directly tax the people that are creating this negative externality rather than than consumers who by necessity are using these products.
Because a fuel tax in essence is not what we need in order to get people to transition away from fossil fuels, we should not increase fuel tax.