Single sex schools bring more harm than good.
The two primary topics ur arguments we're gonna talk about in this debate are about how single sex schools codify gender norms and now this is problematic for society moving forward, and secondly about how this does not prepare children for the real world.
And how the purpose of education is specifically to do just that.
But first, an observation about single sex schools in general.
Recognize that the fact that individuals and parents and communities would strive to have single sex schools is that there is some sort of problem that arises when you mix the genders in a public education system.
That there are a variety of types of harassment, bullying, distraction that goes on within a school system that makes a single sex school seem like a good idea.
By having a separate school system for both genders I think what you end up doing is, rather than addressing these problems, addressing the type of immaturity that children might have, especially young boys might have, and addressing the harassment that boys might have towards girls, and addressing the problems that arise from children dealing with people of the opposite gender, we think what you do is you simply push it to the side and you make it so that schools and the public education sphere never has to deal with those types of problems.
We think what this ends up leading to is these two big issues that I'm talking about now.
First is specifically about gender norms and how you codify gender norms.
We think that when you distinguish the genders and you distinguish the sexes in the schools you immediately tell children that there's a distinction between boys and girls that is insurmountable, that when it comes to education there is this gap that exists that simply demands that there be single gender schools.
We think that this is a bad signal to send to our students and to send to our children because we think that this is the point at which their most impressionable.
If you send this message now, we think they're much more likely to line in with traditional gender norms.
With the idea that women need to be members of the household and men need to be breadwinners for their household.
We think that this breeds a whole lot of hetero-normative thinking and we think that that is problematic.
Why do we think this is the case?
Firstly, we think that single gender schools oftentimes are religious institutions that end up teaching these types of ideas to people.
That they teach traditional gender normative thinking to children, but more importantly, when you have a bunch of boys clustered into a room together or you have bunch of girls clustered into a room together they tend to repeat what they see from the popular people around them and we think that that ultimately is likely going to lead to people falling into traditional gender norms.
Why are traditional gender norms bad?
We think that they opress individuals moving forward.
We think that when people know about and opt into traditional gender norms, it's incredibly difficult for them to opt out because there's an expectation from society that they behave the way that they've been behaving and they've already opted into that expectation.
So we think that not only is this the case, but we think that these are often incredibly oppressive gender norms that don't follow along with the identity that individuals feel.
We think that mixed gender schools allow for you to both address the problems that arise between genders but also allow for boys to understand how girls interact and to get a better understanding of what they do and vice versa.
And more importantly, it says that there isn't this deep divide between the genders especially at such a young age.
Secondly, preparation for the real world.
I think I've already addressed this to some extent but I'd just like to say again, education exists for the primary purpose of ensuring that children are prepared to enter into the real world.
When you ignore the problems that exist between the genders as children, those problems don't get solved once they're adults and manifest themselves in poor treatment between genders and only make it more difficult for people to interact in the real world.
And they don't know how to interact with the opposite gender which we recognize as awkward for people both genders.
We think when you ignore these valuable life lessons and you ignore the the issues that arise when you mix the genders, we think that all you do is a disservice to the students in school now where they're more likely to be forced into gender normative ideas and they're less likely to be capable of dealing with the problems that they're going to face in the real world.
And for these reasons we believe that single sex schools bring more harm than good.