We should lower the drinking age.
We're going to make two main arguments in this round about why we should lower the drinking age.
The first is about how age based restrictions broadly are arbitrary and are a bad system for determining what people can and cannot do, and the second is about how prohibition broadly leads to less responsible consumption and why having a low drinking age creates bad habits for people in their life in the long term.
Alright, on age based restrictions: when you restrict people's behavior based on their age, age is almost always a proxy for something else.
There's nothing about the number of years and the number of times that you've revolved around the sun that dictates what you are physically or mentally capable of doing.
People develop at different paces, both physically and mentally and emotionally.
And we think that setting an age in saying that this is a level of maturity in any of those categories that qualifies you for doing something is almost always going to be inaccurate.
By this metric we exclude people that are otherwise qualified to undertake the task or to do the type of thing that we're trying to prohibit when we have an age based restriction.
For drinking, this age based restriction largely revolves around the maturity that someone needs to have in order to drink responsibly, as well as the mental development they that they have to ensure that drinking doesn't harm their mental capacities.
We would say that you should not exclude all people, especially once that person is an adult, once they reach the age of say eighteen, because people are informed of these risks broadly.
People understand that alcohol can be damaging to themselves and to their bodies.
And we think that if you're going to entrust adults, people at the age of eighteen, with the responsibility to vote, to go to war, to hold a job and to be an independent person that is responsible for their own well being and responsible for their behavior under the law, that drinking alcohol is not a much more broadly intensive responsibility than any of these other things, and that someone at the age eighteen or seventeen is just as capable of of holding their liquor and handling themselves while drunk as a twenty one or a twenty two year old.
Alright, so secondly we would say that prohibition leads to less responsible consumption.
Prohibition categorically does not work when it comes to alcohol consumption.
Almost every person before the age of twenty one will try to drink at some point in their life, and anyone under the age of twenty one is probably capable of acquiring alcohol if they choose to do so.
Given that this is the case, what we think prohibition actually does is it glamorizes drinking.
People have to sneak around to get booze and it becomes this provocative thing that they're doing.
This leads to a few problems: firstly, it leads to over consumption.
This occurs when people are not easily able to acquire alcohol but are suddenly greeted with an immense amount of alcohol.
For example at a college party.
This leads to people drinking far more than they are able to hold and it means these people are less experienced than they otherwise would be and so they don't know the limits of what they can drink.
It also fuels a problematic party scene in college.
This accumulates, when people know that these parties are the only reliable places to get booze if you're under the age of twenty one, and therefore it fuels more and more people going to these parties than end up having many problematic things occur at them.
Finally, people develop long term behaviors that are hard to break.
If as soon as you were introduced to alcohol, you're introduced as well to the idea of temperance, to the idea of self restraint, to only drinking at certain times and in certain capacities, then people develop those habits long term.
But when people, whenever they drink, only drink to get incredibly drunk, only drink to their maximum capacity, we think this develops long term problems and habits that are incredibly difficult to break and fuels alcoholism amongst adults long into their lives.
For these reasons we should lower the drinking age.