We should ban smoking.
For the purposes of the debate, we want to clarify that we're talking about all types of smoking.
So many people associate the term smoking with tobacco and smoking cigarettes but to be clear, we would also ban the smoking of cannabis and other types of recreational drugs.
We think that falls directly in line with our advocacy for clarity for things that are kind of blurry, like cannabis usage.
We think that the debate isn't really particularly important there, but if there's some sort of medical benefit to whatever would not be allowed to be smoked if you consume it in another way, maybe that would be okay but we don't think that that is particularly relevant to the debate here.
So, why do we think that the government has a duty to ban smoking, and why do we think it's so important to ban smoking?
Let's start with the second thing because we think it's pretty clear.
So science is out on smoking.
It's very clear that the impacts of smoking tobacco or smoking in general is negative on the human body.
Firstly, any form of smoking itself deteriorates the lungs.
Inhaling smoke allows carcinogens to enter the lungs and ultimately damages them.
You can have serious long-run impacts.
Things like lung cancer and other respiratory issues are common for people that smoke any type of recreational drug, and ultimately leads to really long really harmful long-term long-term health problems.
Specifically with tobacco and with other substances like it, smoking cigarettes and things like that, also come with problems of addiction.
The issue with this is that firstly, there're already so many carcinogens that you're breathing in that you're likely, if you start smoking to begin with, to smoke in the long run.
It's very difficult to quit once you start smoking because of the powers of nicotine or for other drugs, because of their own inherent addictive qualities.
So, in those cases, this leads to not just harms to your health, but also economic harms for those people.
If you have an addiction, for example, if you smoke cigarettes, if you're smoking ten, fifteen packs of cigarettes a week, you are spending over a hundred, a hundred fifty dollars every week on something that is literally just going to kill you in the long run, and that's why it's so important to ban smoking.
We think people become smokers because of society.
We think that ability to access these types of things and the fact that other type of recreational drugs and activities are banned, but smoking cigarettes and other other drugs smoking cigarettes particularly is not banned, we think that this is why a signaling sends a signaling effect to people in society that this is something that is acceptable, when really it's only going to be harmful to you.
Further, we think it's the job of government to protect its people.
We think that because there's a strong signal in the fact that a ban sets, and because it makes it simply more difficult to get cigarettes, we think that the ban will likely be effective in reducing the amount of people that smoke.
It may be harmful on those that smoke now to make it more difficult to force them to quit smoking, but we think we need to think of the long-term health ramifications of our country and of all people.
To allow smoking allows more people to be normalized to the idea of smoking.
It allows more parents to continue to show children the practice of smoking, for people to see it in media, all these things.
When you see these things and you become normalized to the idea of smoking, you're just far more likely to choose to smoke in the future or to try smoking and from there, think that it's okay.
Because of this, we think that the government, knowing that this is a almost entirely harmful act, there's no real redeeming quality, the expression of freedom that you do when you choose to smoke is only an expression of freedom that is ultimately going to hinder all of your other rights, your health, your right to life, your right to travel, all these things are hindered when you take this obviously free choice to smoke.
We don't think that this is a valid choice to make.
We don't think that this is a good choice to allow people to have.
And maybe it restricts rights to an extent, but we think that that's okay given the overwhelming health benefits that occur when people choose not to smoke, when people do not become infatuated or even normalized to the possibility of smoking, and when you ban smoking, you do that.
And that's why we should ban smoking.