We should not abolish the two-party system.
So, in this debate, we want to make something clear: a two-party system, we think, is a fundamental part of any winner-take-all system.
We don't think that this debate is about the comparative benefits of a parliamentary system versus a two-party system, but rather we think it's about debate about whether or not two parties within a winner-take-all system are preferable to a multiparty winner-take-all system, and in that debate, we think a two-party system is clearly preferable.
So, first we're gonna talk about why we think that two-party systems are a permanent aspect of these states and why we think it's unlikely a multiparty system would ever be successful.
And secondly, we're gonna talk about why these systems are a better aggregator of preferences, in general, and why we think they're better than coalition building as far as getting the ends that people desire.
So, first, on why the systems are permanently entrenched.
We think that in order for the other side of this debate to win the round, they need to show that it is a feasible possibility to actually remove these two-party systems.
And the reason that we think that it is unlikely is fundamentally that when you have an entrenched two-party system, if you were to remove it, we think that people would still feel like third parties are wasted votes.
The reason for this is several.
First, the entrenched parties that already exist aren't simply going to go away if you abolish the two-party system.
They're still going to have a massive amount of funding, they're going to have a massive amount of political cachet, and they're going to have a massive amount of name recognition in any sort of system when you try to abolish this system.
What this means is that these parties, the entrenched parties, are going to start with a massive advantage over any third-party contender.
And given that that's the case, people are still going to feel like if they vote for that third party, they're more likely than not wasting their vote, because in a winner-take-all system, that third party still needs to clear the same threshold as any other two-party system would or as any other party in a two-party system would, but they start out with a massive resource disadvantage.
The other problem is that when you have an executive position like a presidency, which is what you have in many of these winner-take-all systems, rather than a parliamentary system of government, we think that there's little incentive for coalition building outside of the party, because you end up with a system in which one branch of government can be totally dominated by one party, without the need for a coalition.
And this means that you're going to have mainly two parties arise , by necessity, as the most competitive parties, which means we don't think the other side can show that this is even a feasible outcome.
But even if it were, we think that this is better for aggregating preferences.
The reason for this is that when you have a coalition as opposed to a caucus, so we think that what you have the united states is a democratic caucus and a republican caucus in congress.
What this means is these caucuses all fall under the same brand.
So the outcome of governance, the outcome of policy they put forward, has an impact on all of the people that fall under that brand, whereas in a coalition, that's not necessarily the case.
The reason that this is important is because we think there's a much larger incentive for these parties to do a couple of things than they would if they were in a coalition.
First, they have an incentive to take the time and come to a compromise within their own caucus, because they know that there's no other outcome or there's no other party that they can work with in a real substantive way to get the to get the outcomes that they want, to get the outcomes that the voters that put them in office want.
Furthermore, we think that you're that you have more flexibility in policy, and we think this leads to centrist positions that most people in a state will agree on.
The reason for this is that if you have a, say, four-party system, where you have a far left, a far right, and two center parties, when you have people that when you form a coalition with either a far-left or a far-right party, this means that the majority ruling coalition is going to, by nature, be less centrist, because their point of compromise is further to the right or further to the left than you would in a two-party system, when you have a right and a left party.
What this means is that we think that more people end up being left out on the cold because of coalition building, because most people in the state want centrist positions.
In a state in which you have a diversity of political opinions, most people can agree on center positions, at least far more often than they're able to agree on far-left or far-right positions.
This means that in doing the job of a state, in aggregating the preferences of a people, two-party systems are more likely to come to positions, and therefore policy, that all people can agree on.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the two-party system.