We should further exploit nuclear power.
When we say we're going to further exploit nuclear power, this includes allowing for subsidies to occur, that and increase the investment in nuclear power, allowing for tax breaks that allow for nuclear power to be more prolific, and more business friendly, and more economically viable for new entrepreneurs to enter the field, and start developing this power.
You would also increase the regulatory capacity of the state, so that these things can be put out, and used more frequently, and overall we would ensure that there are structures in place, for a robust use of nuclear power within the state.
Okay, so two main arguments, the first is that there is a massive potential, that resides within the use of nuclear power, and the second is to explain why, in the context of other power options, nuclear power is not as dangerous as the popular imaginary beliefs.
Okay, firstly, on its potential.
Recognize that, nuclear power has the ability to use a very small amount of fuel to establish a massive amount of power.
This can be used in small nuclear reactors, that can power city blocks, and it can be used in large reactors, that can power entire cities and entire areas for a long period of time, creating yes, nuclear waste, that needs to be dealt with, but also this waste can be contained, and used and contained in a way, that it doesn't necessarily, and it's not intrinsic to it, in creating these harms.
This is what's especially important about nuclear power is that it's flexible.
So, it is one, there is no nuclear fallout, a safe resource and a safe way of gathering energy, and it's a much more flexible than other types of reusable energy, renewable energy resources that we have.
So for example, unlike solar power, it doesn't require being in a place that has an immense exposure to daylight.
Unlike wind power, it's not reliant on of been located in a certain area, which means that it's geographically viable in all locations, and it's versatile in such a way, where it is a sustainable energy source, that, if perfected, is going to, in the long run, be more versatile, and more useful, in a wide variety of areas, in ways that, no matter how much you perfect solar power, it's unlikely to be useful in areas, that have very long winters, or do not get exposed to sunlight on a regular basis.
We also think think that it could be scaled down, and for for smaller use in ways that ensure sure that, it can be particularized to the area in which it's being used.
So secondly, we think that the danger of nuclear power is dramatically overblown.
While the while popular narratives about nuclear reactor meltdowns, and things like this, are popular in our imaginary, in our social consciousness, what's important to recognize is that, based on the amount of usage, so based on the the prolific nature of its use, it's actually the case that, there is more degradation, and more damage done from oil spills per the amount of drilling operations, and different transporting operations, than there is from nuclear power.
So yes, it's natural that, because there is more oil being used that there would be more spills than there are nuclear power meltdowns, but the damage done by these things, in proportion to their prevalence, is actually much higher in using these fossil fuels.
Given that this is the case, we think the stigma around nuclear power plants is massively overblown.
Given that we are willing to take on the dramatic ramifications of oil spills, which include polluting water supplies, damaging, almost permanently, environments and ecosystems that are in these areas, we think that we should be willing to take on the risk of nuclear power, given the prolific and versatile nature that it has.
There's also an immense amount of room for innovation in nuclear power, that hasn't been tapped in the status quo, because of the fact that, there's this massive stigma against it, and allowing for nuclear power, allowing for the development of this resource, would allow for energy independence for all states.
It would mean that, if you can perfect nuclear power, because you can use it in any location, it isn't reliant on on mining for resources that simply cannot be reproduced, on oil that is going to damage the environment, in a way that nuclear power simply will not, we think that there are massive benefits to be gained, and the risks are much smaller than people make them out to be.
Given that this is the case, we should further exploit nuclear power.