We should not subsidize higher education.
So, when we say we don't want to subsidize higher education, we mean that we shouldn't increase spending on providing aid and grants to people for higher education.
We think the status quo is certainly fine.
So, we're going to make two broad arguments.
The first is that higher education is simply overrated, and the second is that there's no right to higher education.
There's no duty for the government to subsidize.
So, first, on why it's overrated.
We think that in the modern job market in our expanding world, what's most important is not that you have a degree from a certain place but that you can demonstrate skills that are useful for people to have, that are useful for you to have as an employee.
For example, if I can go online and teach myself to code at a very high level, if I can teach myself how to program at a very high level, then those are practical skills that can be applied to a workplace.
And because the market for, say, coders is an incredibly competitive one as far as businesses want them at a very high level, there are more jobs available than there are people people to fill them, given that this is the case, I can go out and find a job with my skills alone, without a college degree.
We also think you can just build experience that's just as valuable as college.
If I go out into the workforce and I start working my way up the ladder of a company or I start working my way up the ladder of a nonprofit or a type of organization, these are all things that provide you with experience that college will never be able to provide you with, that higher education doesn't provide, and again, provides you with valuable skills.
There are also so many different resources that you can use to get the same education if you need it.
Higher education is an astronomically expensive thing that someone is forced to take on.
Higher education is something where we say: okay you are a twenty-year-old, an eighteen-year-old.
You are barely an adult, and now we're going to force you to take on thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars of debt obligations and thousands and thousands of dollars of spending in order to acquire an education that, frankly, you could get online for free.
There are hundreds of different online courses and different open education programs that are run by great universities like harvard and MIT and yale, where you can literally watch college courses, take college courses for free.
Given that there's this alternative option, we don't think that it's necessary for the government to subsidize something that where you can already get the same exact skills, or more skills, or more competitive skills on your own for no cost.
We think it's simply a waste of a subsidy.
Finally, we think there's no right to higher education.
We think that primary education, which is totally free, primary public education, gives the necessary skills that you can build from in order to be a successful adult.
It gives you the foundational understanding and the foundational education that you need in order to go on and expand upon that education in a way that is beneficial for you as an employee, as someone that wants to be employed.
The state pours tons of money into your primary education, thousands of dollars into primary education.
And again, as I just said, higher education is an astronomically expensive thing to subsidize, and we think that pouring more money into this cuts money from areas that are more in need.
Things like other social programs, medicare, like social security, food stamps, these are the types of things that end up getting cut, because things like things like military expenditures are held to such a high regard that they will not be slashed.
Higher education increases costs dramatically, and they do it almost certainly at a cost to those that are also in need.
They do so at the cost of other social expenditures, even though this higher education is simply not as necessary as it once was in our modern world.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize higher education.