Global warming is a major threat.
No matter what some may say in the media the vast majority of scientists agreed that global warming is not a natural occurring phenomenon in the way that it's currently occurring, and that global warming is due to man-made carbon emissions and other pollution that has been going on since the industrial revolution.
There's a new spike in the global average temperature and every year new records are set that set the new high in regions all over the world and for the global temperature average generally.
So, global warming is a threat that we face and it is man-made so there is something we can do about it.
So why should we do something about it?
It's important to recognize that at the current pace of which we are emitting carbon dioxide and other harmful things like methane into our atmosphere, we are on pace to have to reach a global tipping point in which the amount of carbon in the atmosphere forms of greenhouse effect that cannot be undone for hundreds of years.
Something that will ensure that generations upon generations that follow us will be forced to deal with the impacts that I'm going to talk about right now.
There are a few major impacts of global warming that have serious and detrimental impacts on human life.
The first of those is that global warming means that global that polar ice caps are melting at an alarming rate and that global freezing occurs at lower rate during the winter, which means that normally there is now higher sea levels across the globe as well as more erratic weather patterns.
What do those things look like?
Well firstly, on a small scale in the status quo we can see that rising sea levels are causing populations to be harmed.
Islands in the pacific ocean that are habited are starting to sink entirely meaning that entire countries are going to be underwater in a number of years.
Forcing, in the status quo, small amounts of immigration and refugee problems but in the future, as water water levels continue to rise, even developed nations are going to be forced to deal with the fact that cities, major metropolitan areas are going to be underground.
And there are going to be massive immigrant and refugee crises that individuals and countries are going to need to deal with moving forward if we do nothing about this.
But furthermore it's important to recognize that once nations go underground and these metropolitan areas go underground, you lose massive historical and cultural landmarks that are tied to our human existence and to the identity that we feel as a collective humanity and that not only is there a loss of life and loss of property, but also a life a loss of history when we allow the sort of patterns to continue.
So, on top of the fact that cities are going to be under water on coastal areas, these global warming causes erratic problems with the weather generally.
Global warming, the name itself is somewhat misleading because it's not just the facts in the world is getting warmer but it's also the fact that weather patterns are getting more erratic, which is why you may have very warm temperatures come in the winter, but you get really strong storms coming in times when you wouldn't expect them, such as the spring and and things such as blizzards that mean that agricultural patterns are harmed in dramatic way which in developing nations can cause serious problems such as drought which means that many people simply aren't being fed and what we are seeing is that in those developing nations in particular, there is a massive increase in drought and a massive increase in famine that everyone is going to have to deal with.
This is another additional factor that could lead to those refugee crises that are already wrecking europe in the status quo and are only continue are only going to continue to cause political problems moving forward.
But these also have impacts on developed countries.
Blizzards, earth and more major storms such as tornadoes and hurricanes that rack the that rack developed nations as well such as the united states, still have massive detrimental impacts even with the infrastructure that these countries have in order to survive these storms.
This means that the worst of in society, both in developed and developing nations, are going to continually going to be harmed because in large part corporations, large agro businesses are causing these toxic waste to be poured into our atmosphere and into our waste, into our water supplies which is causing these harms to exist in the first place.
We think that it's reprehensible that society allows these things to happen these gains for the top to happen, when it causes global warming affects that not only impact those that are existing right now, the worst off in developed and developing nations but also because of the tipping point, are going to continue going to impact people for generations.
On top of the fact that pollution and warming causes impacts for the animal populations as well, causing mass extinctions of people or animal populations in the status quo that again, just like the tipping point cannot be reversed.
Given that our current trajectories going to lead to these impacts happening, it is almost guaranteed by science, we think that global warming is a major threat that must be dealt with immediately.