We should legalize insider trading.
In this debate, we're going to present two main arguments.
The first is about increased market efficiency and the second is about the problem with enforcement.
So, on the first point: we think that what insider trading actually does it is that it informs other traders, as well as the market, via action.
If you're an actor that has inside information that a company is failing or that a company is doing successful, that is information that certain people will not have and therefore, you have a a bulk amount of traders.
The market itself is a collective, is less informed about what they are putting their money into, and this thing is set in stone.
Like the amount of revenue that you're generating in a quarter is set in stone prior to that q one report coming out and allowing traders to become informed traders.
But what actually happens is that people are still trading on misinformation and if an insider trader or a group of insider traders is able to go in and change those market forces to show that there is a significant dropoff in asset value or is there there's a large group buying up these assets, that makes the market more informed.
It means that even though these quarterly reports can come out immediately once information is known, and even though people are still going to trade, there's a way for people to get a better understanding and you, as an insider trader, create a more informed market.
The other thing that it ends up doing and this isn't this isn't in in turn creates a system in which stock more accurately and appropriately reflects the value of a company, which means that, again, traders have more understanding and the value is more reflective of that system.
But additionally, we also think that it creates a system in which you even out market volatility.
And what this means is that if you have a system in which bad information comes out, say, a company's quarterly earnings are fifty percent less than what they were expected to be and therefore, there's likely to be a run on that company's stock in which a whole bunch of people are going to try and sell and that company is going to collapse, or if there are long-term market forces at play, such as large banks that are corporations, companies such as banks, that give out loans that are central to institutions that could impact stocks more broadly.
If this information through insider trading is allowed to be if insider traders are allowed to act, this means that you smooth out market volatility.
It means that not all actors are having this run on stocks immediately and therefore, instead of getting a market crash, you get a long-term market downward trend in which people are not being forced out of their homes, in which the type of volatility associated with a stock market crash doesn't come into play, in which the government has more time to accurately prepare for this type of downturn and has more time to create kind of barriers and safety nets for people that may be affected by this crisis.
So on enforcement, recognize that SEC enforcement of these types of actions is widely disparate and often only impacts small or smaller traders, so like corporate ceos and c-level executives don't get prosecuted at at the same rate as lower-level employees.
And what's also important to recognize is that these laws are incredibly vague.
So it's very difficult to determine whether or not proprietary research falls under insider trading, and what is designated as insider information and proprietary information, and what is legitimate to trade on.
So, oftentimes, people don't even know that what they're doing is insider trading and yet, because these people are the least informed and often the lowest down on the ladder, these are the people that end up being prosecuted.
If you can't prosecute in a fair manner, if you can't have a system of laws in which you can ensure accountability across classes and across levels of responsibility in hierarchies, we don't think that these are laws that are meaningful.
We don't think that these are laws that are fair, and given that the market benefits of insider trading are actually greater than the detriments and that this is, on net, a victimless crime, we should legalize insider trading.