We should ban genetically modified crops.
So, when we say we would ban these crops, we think that this doesn't necessarily need to be a permanent ban, an indefinite ban, but we think that in the status quo, there just isn't enough information to allow people to consume these goods on a regular basis, and this justifies the ban.
So the first reason the first argument we're going to make is that this is a public health concern.
The government only has the ability to ban justly in certain instances, and we think this meets those requirements of a just ban.
So, the first requirement would be some sort of an asymmetry of information.
In the status quo, there's just not not publicly available information on the effects of GMOs or how they've been grown, and companies keep that information largely hidden for themselves, for the purpose of patenting, for the purpose of being competitive in the market.
These may be the justifications, but it still leads to that massive asymmetry of information.
People cannot make informed decisions based and cannot make informed decisions, in any instance, when it regards GMOs because of this asymmetry.
They simply don't have the information to make some sort of an informed decision about the long-term health ramifications of GMOs.
And people are horrible long-term planners for themselves anyway which means, in all instances regarding GMOs, we think the government has an obligation to step in and to help people make more informed decisions.
The other reason for a ban is because of the potential harms.
There's mixed information there is mixed information in the status quo regarding the health impacts of GMOs.
It's not conclusive one way or the other, but we think when there hasn't been enough time that's been passed to allow for thorough longitudinal studies and to discuss the impacts of those studies, we think that we need to ban for the time being, at least in the consumer market, in order to prevent a potential public health crisis.
We think that, yes, businesses should generally be allowed to sell what they want if there hasn't been a proven health risk, and we think that, yes, people should generally have the ability to buy what they wanna buy and to make those decisions, but this is only under circumstances where people can make reasonable calculus for themselves, where people can make reasonable decisions based on a reasonable amount of information.
But none of that is the case when it regards genetically modified crops and because of this, we think you need to prevent people from consuming these things, at least in the near term.
Secondly, we think there are environmental impacts that need to be taken into consideration.
In the status quo, there's a potential for superbugs and other pathogens to be borne out of genetically modified crops.
This is because these crops are often built to be more resistant to bugs, more resistant to bacteria, more resistant to any sort of harm that could befall them when they're being grown.
And this has the potential for those crops to spread and take over ecosystems, to become an invasive species on their own in a way that other crops aren't able to recover from.
But additionally, this means that if bacteria do adapt, if bugs that affect these crops do adapt, they could become stronger, they'd become resistant to antibiotics, they could be resistant to other types of medicine and other types of treatment that we currently have, and they could infect these the our food supply and create bugs that ultimately affect people.
Because of the nature of these goods, because of the nature of these crops, we do not think that they can be allowed to be grown without more information.
When it comes to modifying the genetic makeup, to modifying the health of these plants, the health of these ecosystems, we think that we cannot be cautious enough.
And because of that asymmetry of information, because of the potential harms, this ban is justified.
For these reasons, we should ban genetically modified crops.