Organ donation should be mandatory.
At the beginning of the debate, we're just going to lay out a brief model.
Firstly, we would say that there are a few instances, in which individuals of particular religious persuasion believe that it would condemn them to hell, or would otherwise violate their afterlife, if their organs are removed.
These are a small minority of people in most developed nations, and we would say that, in those cases, we're fine giving some sort of a religious exemption for organ donation.
But in all other instances, in the case of death, someone would immediately be brought to a coroner, if the coroner deem that their organs were healthy, those organs would be harvested from them, and then would be obviously given to someone who is on an organ donation waiting list, and treated as if it was a voluntary organ donation in all the same ways.
Okay, so why should we do this?
We would say that the nature of rights is that these rights only matter, if someone can internalize the value of holding those rights.
And what this means is that, rights are not valuable in and of themselves, but only when they are attached to a rights bearer, who can appreciate the value of those rights.
So, we would say that the right to bodily autonomy is not meaningful for the deceased, because it is obviously the case that they cannot value their right to bodily autonomy, they can't value anything, they're incapable of internalizing any of the rights that we would pass on to them.
What this means is that, in reality, when we give rights to the deceased, we're really giving rights to individuals who are related to the deceased, who otherwise care care for the deceased.
When we say that to harvest organs from the deceased would be to violate their body autonomy, what it really means is that to harvest their organs would be to violate the wishes of those who are still alive, and who value that person.
So, we think this debate is fundamentally about weighing the right to life of those who are on organ donation waiting lists, against the right to have this sort of memory of the deceased preserved, for those who have lost someone.
And we think that in this instance, it's very clear that we ought defer to those who are waiting for organs.
Recognize that, in the status quo, there is a massive waiting list for organ donations, there's a complete lack of organ donations in the united states, and in most developed countries.
That means that thousands and thousands of people die every single year, because they were on a waiting list for an organ.
We think that, if organ donation is mandatory, in fact we know if organ donation is mandatory, this wouldn't be the case, there will no longer be this lack of supply of organs, and these people, who otherwise would have died, would live.
We think the government has an obligation to its citizens, and primarily to its citizens who are still alive.
We think that the preferences of those who know the deceased cannot be compared to the value of a human life, a human life that, otherwise, is going to be lost, if this policy is not adopted.
We recognize, that individuals may have some sort of queasy feeling, when it comes to harvesting organs, but this queasy feeling simply does not justify not adopting this type of a policy, a policy to which the state is obligated to its citizens, it's obligated to its citizens, in the fundamental way that it exists to preserve their life, to preserve their livelihood, and to preserve their ability to continue to live.
If the state does not protect its citizens, the state has no purpose for existing, and fundamentally fails in its overriding obligations.
Because organ because mandatory organ donation fulfills the basic tenants of the state, and because it does not violate the rights of the deceased, in any way that is significant, we believe organ donation should be mandatory.