We should further exploit green technology.
In this debate there's one thing that matters more than anything else and that is the impending damage that is going to be caused by global warming if we do not take drastic action in the immediate future.
So we think that's what we're going to talk about most in this debate but secondly, if you don't care at all about global warming, survival of the human race and all you care about is the economy, green technology happens to be quite good for the economy and job creation as well.
So we'll talk about that a little bit at the end.
Okay, on global warming predictions of the status quo use of fossil fuels in the status quo, energy consumption, is that the current pace of our societies users use of fossil fuel is going to cause multiple degrees of warming in the environment in the next one hundred years.
This is catastrophic.
It is hard to overstate how damaging global warming is going to be in the next century if we do not get our act together now.
So I'm going to lay out some of those impacts.
First, it's expected that ice caps are going to melt at a dramatic rate which leads to two big important impacts.
The first is sea level rise.
This is dramatically important because if the sea level starts to rise by ten or fifteen feet, there are some massive hubs of commerce and populations that are going to be underground.
For example, much of the coast of florida is expected to be underground before the end of this century.
The same can be said of harbor cities and these all happen to be centers of commerce.
Most countries develop on their coast which means that when sea levels rise, the first people that are going to be impacted, the most impacted areas, are also going to be the areas that happen to have the most the highest rate of people, the highest per capita rate of people.
So this is going to lead to immense needs to move populations, immense losses of property and value from that property.
That is going to have a massive impacts on the economy and on human life moving forward.
The other thing that ice caps melting is that it warms waters globally.
What this means is that you end up getting much more intense storms over a or during hurricane and tsunami seasons and times like this which means that you're going to have even harsher weather impacts to go hand in hand with the fact that people are going to have to flee from their homes because of the sea level rising in the future.
Finally, some other impacts of global warming if that wasn't bad enough.
You also have unpredictable weather patterns which can lead to drought in many areas and higher temperatures which can kill crops.
All this means that to go with the fact that huge population centers are going to be immensely at risk, you're also going to have a situation in which drought and famine are likely to take over causing war and other types of damage.
The impacts of global warming if unchecked will literally kill millions of people most of whom in the developing world, did not prosper from oil and other types of fossil fuel development.
We need to drastically decrease our fossil fuels output immediately in order to avoid that and green technology is the only way that we can hope to avoid these types of dramatic harms moving forward.
But even if you don't care about any of that, let's talk about business and why green technology is good.
Green technology is an entirely new sector of the economy to open up and with that brings thousands of new jobs and businesses into the economy and so being a green tech leader is something that actually helps bolster an economy and this is why small countries in europe such as such as a scandinavian country in sweden and the netherlands denmark, these are all countries that are trying to be leaders in green technology because it bolsters you're standing on the world stage and it creates new jobs that are high skilled jobs and mobile because unlike other types of drilling jobs in fossil fuel jobs these are dangerous jobs by any stretch and they don't require you to be in any one particular area which means they're mobile jobs that pay well and are not damaging and open up an entirely new sector of the economy that is only bound to get more efficient.
For all of these reasons, we should further exploit green technology.