We should not abolish attorney-client privilege.
We think it is the case that in order for the legal system in the united states to have any real way in order to ensure that the legal protections afforded to individuals can be accessed and not just exist on paper, you need create a legal system in which people are able to become knowledgeable about those rights, in which legal experts, also known as attorneys or lawyers, are able to assist their clients in a meaningful way.
We think that abolishing the attorney-client privilege massively undermines the ability to access any of those legal protections.
And even if it insures that you're able to subpoena attorneys and maybe get a few individuals, who otherwise would have been found innocent, to be found guilty, we can bet is outweighed by the holistic effect that such a practice would have on the legal system.
And so we think that we should not abolish this privilege.
So, we think that in order for to in order to have respect for the law, in order to uphold rights, in order to protect the innocent, you need to ensure that people can access their attorneys, can feel comfortable talking to their attorneys, because most people are not legal experts.
Most people don't know how trial works.
They don't know the full extent of their rights.
They don't know what they could say that could incriminate them, even if they're innocent, and they don't know how the process goes.
Therefore, people need to feel comfortable with their attorneys.
They need to feel that they can talk to their attorneys in order to meaningfully access those rights.
But if you remove the attorney-client privilege, there's no incentive for people to talk to their attorneys because even if you're innocent, you may fear that anything you say could be used against you, anything you say in this intimate meeting could be used against you in either this trial or in future trials.
Attorney-client privilege insures that an attorney can properly plan for a defense, that they can know the whole scope of what their client may or may not have done and be able to plan a defense accordingly.
And just because someone may be guilty of a crime doesn't mean they automatically lose their human or legal rights that are associated with the legal system, and it doesn't mean that they should be undermined in such way by removing the attorney-client privilege.
But this is a massive windfall, this is a massive problem for both attorney and client.
Because if there's no communication between attorney and client, it means the attorney has no way to meaningfully prepare a defense, which means innocent people are far more likely to go to jail, because if someone is being brought to trial, it means that there's at least some evidence against them.
It means a prosecutor has some sort of path to conviction.
And if the attorney that is defending that person doesn't know the whole scope of what happened, they can't properly understand what avenues to take to defend that person and therefore, we think you're more likely to see innocent people go to jail, and vice versa.
When a client doesn't isn't able to talk to their attorney because they fear that anything they say to them could be given up in a court through a subpoena or any other measure, it means that that person is less likely to become knowledgeable about their legal rights, and they're more likely to do things, like take plea bargains or take other sort of deals from a prosecutor, that otherwise could have been avoided.
We don't think that you get any sort of positive gain from removing this privilege.
We think in the same way that there's privilege between a doctor and a patient, that there's confidentiality between a psychologist and a patient, we think that there should be a privilege between attorney and client that ensures that the best legal defense can be mounted.
Simply because someone is guilty does not mean that that right can be undermined.
And to undermine that right prior to conviction, to undermine the privacy that someone has with their attorney prior to conviction, takes an assumption of guilt that undermines the entire western legal framework and as such, we should not abolish the attorney-client privilege.