We should ban herbal medicine.
So, as far as how we're going to do this type of thing, we think it's pretty clear.
We're going to say that we would ban the sale and distribution of herbal medicine, and that if someone were to distribute herbal medicine, you punish the distributor rather than the user.
The only instance in which this may change is if parents force herbal medicine onto their children, in which case the parents aren't aren't the distributor per se, but we think they are still the distributor in nature, and as such they're likely to be punished.
We think the punishment could range from anything from jail time, to heavy fines, we think that that isn't the purpose of this debate, rather whether or not herbal medicine should be banned outright.
Okay, so why we think herbal medicine should be banned?
We think quite simply, there's an asymmetry of information, between the users of herbal medicine and the distributors of herbal medicine, that makes it justified for the state to intervene, and makes it so that a ban is justified.
Why is this the case?
So, people, writ large, do not have specialized medical knowledge, that allows them to make informed decisions about, whether or not something that they put into their body is going to have the medical effects that advertisers, and so called doctors, claim their products are going.
And herbal medicine is not just something that is sold on the streets, or sold in grocery stores, or something like this, herbal medicine is often sold by people that paint themselves as doctors that paint themselves as experts, that taught you to trust them, because they're aware of these things.
They produce fake studies, or fake statistics, that show the solvency of herbal medicine, and when all these things are compounded together, a reasonable individual could be led to believe, that herbal medicine is going to be effective, on top of the fact that the pharmaceutical industry, the medical industry, is not all that trusted in the developed world, for most individuals, partly because these industries, oftentimes, are immensely costly to individuals that interact with them, and therefore leave a bad taste in these people's mouths.
So, we think that there is reasonable individuals, who have an asymmetry of information between them and the people that are selling them things, and in these instances, we think the government, as an informed body, as a body that knows that these herbal medicine is not effective, and oftentimes can harm people even further, it's not like herbal medicine is just drinking water, and that it's not going to help you, but it's also not going to hurt you, herbal medicine can oftentimes create adverse effects, that lead to illnesses becoming even worse, or create additional illnesses, that a person internalizes.
And we think, insofar as the government has an obligation to protect the lives of its citizens, because this asymmetry of information poses a risk to the lives of its citizens, the government must act in order to ensure that these people are not abused.
We also think it's problematic, that people are able to profit off of perpetuating herbal medicine, are able to profit off of insuring that people remain sick, remain using this medicine, and we think that this type of profit is not acceptable, even within our capitalist society, and that the government ought intervene to ensure that this type of profit cannot occur.
We think the primary obligation of the government is to protect the lives of its citizens.
We think that in instances, where there are massive asymmetry of information between citizens and those that are peddling goods, that are going to harm its citizens, the government has an obligation, and is justified in acting, and for these reasons, we should ban herbal medicine.