The atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were not justified.
I want to start by reframing how people view this conversation.
Not in the perspective of americans, that were trying to end an axis power, the last vestige of world war two, but from the perspective of the japanese.
What the japanese people see, and what the perspective of those at the time would have seen, was that they were locked in combat with another state, another imperialist power, and something that had taken out an.
Further, people believe that the war was largely justified, and they were fighting for a good cause.
But, what people didn't expect was the harm that was going to come to their shores, what people didn't expect was the bombing that would kill hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians, that attacked the very core of the economy and the people of japan.
In this sense, we do not believe that the war was justified, or that the bombing itself was justified.
So, first we're going to explain that, what the united states did was inherently a war crime, as recognized, as it would be recognized today, and then we're going to explain why that is the most important thing to consider when thinking about justification.
So, why was it a war crime?
Recognize that the use of a nuclear weapon on civilian targets, the use of any weapon on primarily civilian targets, is recognized as a war crime, within the I CC and with geneva conventions of today.
To harm civilians directly and blatantly, without military target, is not a sad coincidence, but it's a direct affront on the innocence that those people have.
In being noncombatants, it's recognized today that, individuals have certain rights and certain expectations from combatants, that they are treated in a certain way, and that because they are not engaged in attacking you, they have a right to self defense that any other individual would, outside of a wartime instance.
Given that this is the case, and that these people were not legitimate targets of war, what the united states did, in bombing nagasaki and hiroshima, was to kill hundreds of thousands of innocent people, people that did not directly pose a threat to the united states, people that did not directly kill any other person in the name of the war that was being done against the united states, against hundreds of thousands of people, that had no choice about where there were born, and had no choice about what conflict there are going to be caught up into.
And these people were forced to die, through no fault of their own.
Given that this is the case, we think this has to be treated extremely seriously, when weighed against the fact that there was a war going on, and that this was a problem.
So, why do we think that war crimes, and the fact that this is a war crime, needs to be treated as the most important issue?
So, you think that this is the case because war inherently goes against the fundamental moral understandings that we hold.
It is an activity of killing, of looting, of taking from others what is theirs, of engaging in combat that, I think, most people on the surface would recognize is an immoral act.
It's a series of death and violence that most would consider immoral.
We think that, in order to take this eh ensure that this is undertaken in a just way, we can't rely on our own perspective.
Individuals and nations believe that their perspectives is the righteous one, and the just one, and the fair one all the time when they engage in war.
But war still happens, and there's still no objectively correct and just side to most wars.
Given that this is the case, we think appreciating and respecting how law, and international law, has laid out war crimes is of the paramount importance.
And we think, in that, what it ensures is that, given that perspectives skew, when conflict occurs, and whether or not people right, having some bare codes of decency, and a law within war of war, ensures that even when those perspectives are so dramatically off, even when they cause dramatically more harm, than people of those particular countries believe, that certain respects and certain rights will always be valued, that war can only be so calamitous, they can only be so harmful.
And in that regard, the united states took a step that was one many too far beyond what is acceptable, based on the standards of decency.
And in doing so, we believe that the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were not justified.