We should not end the use of solitary confinement.
In this round we're gonna make a few arguments about why we think that solitary confinement, despite the reputation that it has, is probably a necessary part of our criminal justice system.
So, let's talk about the ways in which solitary confinement are used and think about how they are realistically viable within the criminal justice system.
Because we think that when people want criticisms about individuals being stuck in a ten by ten room for years on end without any human contact, yes that's probably bad, but we think that solitary confinement doesn't have to be these long stretches of psychological trauma.
We think that it can be done in a different way.
Secluding people from other inmates, secluding people from regular contact physical contact with people, but you can still allow them to have online contact, you can still allow them to have contact through the mail, over the phone.
You can give them a more comfortable living quarters, like solitary confinement does not have to be the torture that it currently is but it can still serve the role of both a deterrent and a way to ensure safety.
Because recognize that many times inmates are dangerous towards each other.
There are many people in high security in maximum security prisons in the united states that are simply dangerous individuals that don't belong in the general population of the prison because they are likely to commit some sort of a crime.
And not only are there individuals that are just in and of themselves incredibly dangerous, but there's also groups of there's a proliferation of gangs in the united states and in prisons across the world, and these gangs are often incredibly violent towards each other.
So having the ability to have solitary confinement as a way to seclude leaders of these gangs or leaders or individuals that actually do some sort of offense in the jail, is crucial to have.
And part of the reason that is crucial is because it provides a deterrent effect.
If you know that if you act up in a prison, if you do something that is truly heinous, that your time in prison is not only going to be extended probably if you get charged with another crime but it's going to be made dramatically worse if you're taken out of the general population for long stretches of time.
We think that it has a meaningful deterrent effect and we can see this because we ourselves see the the impact of solitary confinement on people.
We hear the horror stories, we hear about the psychological impact it has, and it's certainly the case that inmates in the prison know what that is like much better than we do.
We think the same fear that we would have of being placed in solitary confinement is the fear that exists in many of these inmates.
And it prevents things that are incredibly problematic.
It prevents things like gang riots in prisons.
It prevents things like prisoners going after police officers that are working at the prison or jailers who are just innocent people doing their jobs.
We think that in many instances, solitary confinement as a meaningful deterrent has prevented these types of crimes from happening.
It has prevented more violence from happening in these prisons.
And yes, it may be the case that it does separate people from the general population, it may be a punishment, but look if you're in a prison system and you're already being punished there still needs to be something that is reverberated against you when you violate the rules of your institutions.
When you cause harm onto other peoples you've earned harm upon yourself.
And yes we don't think you should be tortured.
We think solitary confinement can be reformed to an extent to make it less torturous and more just of a punishment, of a generic punishment in the same vein that we view prison as, bad something you wouldn't want but not torture we think the same can be made of solitary confinement.
And for these reasons we should not end the use of solitary confinement.