We should abolish the right to silence.
So, in this motion, what we think we're talking about specifically is that when someone has been arrested they, in many states, have a right to silence where they can choose not to answer questions that officers ask them.
We would be restricting this right.
Now this right does not include the right to counsel or the right to against self-incrimination.
These are separate and we don't think those are up for debate in this round.
So, we've two main reasons that we should abolish the right to silence but they kind of work together.
The first is about just cause for arrest and holding and why this is crucial in ensuring individual rights and secondly, we want to talk about justice and community over personal freedoms.
So on the first point: in order to arrest someone to begin with, there must be just cause to hold them and then arrest them.
So, as a police officer, if you're going to arrest someone, if you're going to hold them in custody, you must have some sort of evidence before you do this.
You have to have some sort of cause for arrest.
Otherwise, this violates other rights that the person holds.
This cause can be something like reasonable evidence that the person's a fair suspect, it could be something like eyewitness testimony that singles the person out, or something like DNA evidence.
All these things give the officer a reason to believe that this person is a is a suspect in a crime.
There are a number of protections in place to ensure that a person is not being randomly pulled off the streets, and due process dictates that there needs to be a cause.
Given that this is the case, it's not that there are no protections for someone once they've been arrested if you remove the right to silence, but there needs to be there need not be this idea that this right is what prevents abuses of government power to gain information, that this is the only way to ensure that your rights are protected.
If you're arrested and there's no cause for your arrest, then it's fine to say that in those instances, any information gained by the government needs to be thrown out, anything like that can't be used in court.
So secondly, we want to talk about justice and community over personal freedom.
All people who opt into the state do so with the idea in mind that some sort of mechanism will be put in place to protect them and ensure their rights broadly.
This is our police force and our criminal justice system.
This is what people what people created in order to fulfill that role.
All members, irrespective of their temporal circumstance or exactly what their circumstances might be in any given moment, would want this system and therefore consent to upholding it through cooperation and service in the system, like jury duty.
Not speaking with an investigating officer is essentially tantamount to obstruction of justice.
It means that what you consented into, your obligation to uphold this system that protects the rights that you want to be protected, you have some sort of obligation to that system because it exists for your well-being.
And just because you're being questioned in connection with a crime, doesn't mean that you should be a loophole here, that not answering questions isn't still obstruction of justice, it's still it's not still obstructing an investigation.
These are things that are independently crimes and that we think there shouldn't be some sort of right arbitrarily given that allows this crime to be okay.
You still have a right to an attorney and a writing on self-incrimination to ensure that what you say doesn't undermine your own interest to great extent, so it's a balancing act.
It's it's ensuring that the state the state needs to value all the citizens rights, and the criminal justice system attempts to balance this by affording rights to the accused, but other protections are sufficient and do not preclude police receiving important information if possible.
That's the benefit to not having this right, and it makes investigations and criminal operations much easier.
It makes it much easier to uphold our justice system, but it still balances this with the rights of the accused.
For these reasons, we should abolish the right to silence.