National service in the united states should be mandatory.
We think the model in this debate is quite simple.
We'd say the united states should adopt a similar method of conscription that exists in places like israel and south korea, in which all citizens are required to serve up to two years in the army or in or in public service, national service.
And this doesn't mean people are being forced to fight in combat roles per se, but it means that they have to go through army training, that they need to be indoctrinated through the same system as everyone else, and they're put in fields in which they can best specialize and be of use to the national service.
Okay, two reasons why we should have mandatory service.
Firstly is a quality of obligation.
Recognize that in the status quo, there's a massive disparity in national service in which minority and poor individuals are constantly coerced by the by the united states military and other national service sectors to join their ranks.
The reason for this is that with the rise of higher education and competitive job opportunities outside of national service, and the fact that the united states army and other national service bodies have been increasingly seen in negative lights due to recent wars in iraq and afghanistan, we think that individuals educated individuals and individuals that have other opportunities are much more likely to not join the army.
But furthermore, recruitment for the army and for other types of national service are overtly directed towards poor and minority communities.
There's an active effort by the united states to recruit from these communities, because they can offer things like future employment benefits, they can offer things like opportunity for advancement in educational benefits, that make these jobs look alluring but in reality, end up putting these people on the front lines.
Defense is a collective responsibility.
We are all equally responsible for the defense of our nation.
We should all have to face the burden of defense because it is something that benefits every person.
While maybe we pay taxes into allowing the army to exist, there's a clearly a disparity not a burden that individuals are being forced to face, especially given that people have overwhelmingly been joining national service, because of the impoverished and because of the discriminatory backgrounds that they face.
We think you shouldn't coerce the few to serve the whole.
If we had conscription on a national level, it would ensure that these coercive measures that currently exist would be expunged.
It wouldn't be necessary, and it would mean that there is an equality of of service required amongst all people for an equal benefit that we all gave.
We also think that , secondly, mandatory national service would increase concern for how we use the military.
We think that when more people are forced to serve, this means that more people have a direct connection to the military.
Whether this means that you have a brother who's serving the military or a father or a son or a family member or a friend, it means that everyone has some sort of connection to the military service.
This means that when it comes to how we're going to use that military, people are now deeply invested in it because they know that choosing to send soldiers to a war in iraq or afghanistan means that their own children, their own friends and family, could be the ones that are fighting on the front line, rather than the nebulous other that composes the military for many privileged groups in the status quo.
When this happens, we think that it's much more difficult for the military industrial complex to push the united states into wars because there'd be more political advocacy against things like unjust wars, things like going into wars without enough information, which is what happened in iraq and in afghanistan, and we think that more restraint on the military overall would be likely.
It also meant that when we went in to conflict, there would be a concern for ensuring that the conflict lasted as little time as possible and had as little casualties as possible, because there would be immense public backlash if suddenly droves of citizens were dying under the united states wash, and no matter whether you are poor or rich or white or black, your son or daughter could be the one that is facing those circumstances.
When people are invested in the military, the military is used better, and when all people contribute to the military, the few the few do not need to be coerced.
And for these reasons, national service in the united states should be mandatory.