Embryonic stem cell rings research brings more harm than good.
Recognize that there are multiple types of ways in which stem cells can be acquired from the human body.
So what we're talking about this debate is specifically a form of harvesting stem cells in which in order to get the stem cells you need to create a human embryonic cell, and from there you extract the stem cells.
So essentially need to fertilize an egg and begin the process that would lead eventually to a child.
With this in mind, and recognizing that there are other ways in order to harvest these stem cells, we think that firstly, embryonic stem cell research is immoral.
What do we mean by this?
We think that the best way to conceptualize a framework of rights is one in which the rights are tied to a person's humanity based on their biological state as a human, so we don't think that you should draw discrepancies and rights based on a person's community, or a person's background, their wealth, anything like that.
We think that it's necessary to only focus on the fact that this person is human and nothing else.
We think that potentiality is important to consider for a few reasons.
Firstly, because we think including potentiality in the state of humanness ensures that we don't leave people out who otherwise might be excluded.
For example, if you make human traits a necessary part of human rights, then we think that certain people would be excluded such as babies who can't express preferences like humans, they can't express certain desires like humans in every way, they can't participate in society like an adult, and because of this we think that they can't be considered fully members of society and therefore drawing from society is a poor place to gain rights.
The same thing can be said of coma patients who can't express their personhood in any meaningful way, but we still think they should be afforded these rights.
For this reason, we think it's important to include potentiality, especially because there's no way for that potential to advocate for itself.
So what this means is that, that potentiality could become a full fledged human being and because we think that future human rights need to be respected, this is why we care about things like climate change because they have an impact on people in the future.
Given that this is the case, we think that because you can't, those people can't advocate for themselves, society should create a rights framework that protects those people in particular to ensure that their rights are the most strongly advocated for, and given that there are other ways to harvest stem cells, we think that excluding embryonic stem cell research would be preferable in this regard in that it doesn't have the same moral qualms that come with embryonic stem cell research.
Further, we'd like to talk about how stem cell research itself is often undertested and unfounded in the way that's used in the status quo.
Recognize that in the status quo there's a lack of oversight to stem cell research and to stem cell treatment that doesn't exist in other medical fields.
For this reason we think it's entirely possible that abuse is more likely to occur with stem cell research and stem cell treatment than it is in other fields, and this has been shown in certain scientific tests that stem cell treatments can lead to deterioration in health in certain cancer testings that can lead to growth and tumors and things like this.
And given that these medical harms exist, we think that especially in the case of embryonic stem cell research, where there's a moral qualm at stake, when there's additional harms that could accrue to people that are taking these treatments, we think that you ought err on the side of caution.
We think that on balance, because of the moral issues and the fact that this is not highly regulated and not highly treated ur not highly tested as far as the treatment is concerned, we think embryonic stem cell research and therefore it's testing, its treatment, brings more harm than good.