We should not disband nasa.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why nasa should not be disbanded why it's actually crucial for the future of humanity that we continue to advance scientific exploration.
The first argument we're gonna make is about the importance of scientific exploration and how nasa advances that and the second is about the private public partnership that exists between nasa and other space faring organizations and private organizations and why they're both beneficial and work well together for humanity.
So on scientific exploration.
Nasa has been on the frontier of astronomical exploration even though we have not been sending people into space all that frequently even though the space shuttle program ended we haven't gone back to the moon in a number of decades it doesn't mean that nasa has just been sitting around not doing anything.
They coordinate tests on the ISS which is important because we eventually want to have long term exploration.
We need to understand the effects of zero gravity.
We need to understand the effects of long term exposure to solar radiation all of these things are tests that are being done in the I SS.
We also want to study the skies for abnormalities to get a better understanding of our universe.
Learning about things like gravitational waves black holes fundamental aspects of physics that have been highlighted in just the last decade.
Things that are a fundamental cornerstone of the world we live in that our understanding of which we did not have we didn't know about gravitational waves we didn't know that they existed we didn't know about how black holes behave in certain conditions.
All these things are important for just understanding the physical reality that we live in.
We think it's good generally to have nasa directing research and expanding knowledge all at a fraction of the cost for the total US budget.
So given how much the united states spends annually on other services on other projects a multi billion multi trillion dollar budget we think the fact that nasa gets a small fraction of a percent of the budget is something that's probably a good use of that good use of that percentage given how much work it does with that small amount of money.
We get better scientific data for outside societies and universities to learn more from so even if nasa isn't doing the research itself they gather a lot of information that other people are able to work off of.
And it's important for human survival to expand beyond the earth we need to have a fundamental understanding of the cosmos at a high level if we're going to do this.
Secondly we're going to talk about the private public partnership that nasa has.
So many point to private enterprise as the fusure as the future of space travel they look at companies like deep blue and space sex but these are not mutually exclusive and in fact we'd say they work quite well together.
Much of the early funding for these types of space ventures come from contracts with nasa to resupply the space station to bring different vehicles into orbit to bring different telescopes and things like this into orbit and satellites and nasa has valuable expertise that helps informs the decisions of private industries.
People like you elon musk credit nasa for space x's survival.
They can coordinate plans around one another and so even if you think that space x and blue and deep blue with nasa's have some sort of redundancies amongst each other the fact that the fact that space travel is such a long term plan in order to actually do these things successfully you need to think in the long term it means that you can have organizations like space x that are trying to get to mars in the very short term and you can have organizations like nasa that have more long term broader plans a fall back in case these private organizations like space x fail in the future.
We think that nasa is a great fall back and it also ensures that these private enterprises actually get off the ground to begin with and do the hard work that needs to be done.
For these reasons we should not disband nasa.