We should raise the retirement age.
So, for the purpose of the debate, we're going to create a model that we think is fairly simple, we recognize that when the retirement age was created it didn't exist in a similar time, so the life expectancy, when the retirement age based around social security was instituted, was much lower, so what you would do is we would tie it to what life expectancy was when the retirement age was first instituted.
So, if whatever age it was, say it was sixty five, we would tie it to that, we would tie it to the same proportion of life that you would expect to have after retirement, based on the average, and from there we would just tie it to life expectancy moving forward, so if life expectancy goes up by two years, we would raise the retirement age in proportion to how much life you would expect to live after you retired, not based on your age per se, but based on expected retirement time.
Okay, so, two two main arguments that we have in this debate.
Firstly, we would say that this is a necessary thing to do, in order to protect the welfare benefits and other things that are so crucial, and so tied to retirement age.
So recognized that, the problem that exists in the status quo is one, in which for the vast majority of the existence of mankind, the pyramid or the amount of people at each age group, so from zero to ten, from ten to twenty, from twenty to thirty, etcetera, essentially formed a pyramid where the vast majority of people on the bottom were under ten years of age, and the people at the top, the very few, were much smaller proportion.
So, what's actually happening in the status quo is that, because of increased medical care, lowering birthrates, and all of these types of things, that pyramid pattern, that put a very few amount of people at the top, and a lot of people at the bottom, as far as age range, is actually straightening out.
So, there are now many more people that are at the top, more people are living to be older, more people are able to collect the benefits of retirement, and all these things, whereas there are very few people now that are being born, compared to the proportion of elderly.
What this means is that, all the systems, that we have devised, are based on the fact that you have a much larger working class of people than you do the amount of people that are retired, but that isn't the case anymore.
There are now many more people that are able to collect retirement benefits than before, and while we recognize that retirement is something that people have earned, that they put their time in, and they deserve to have a time after they've retired to be able to live their life, to have the freedom to explore other things, to enter that new stage of life, it's important to recognize that, if we don't make a change now, people will not be able to receive the same welfare benefits they have before.
People won't social security is due to take a drastic hit, because of higher life expectancy, and lower birth rates, and other sorts of welfare are doing the same.
It also means that, the economic productivity of these people can last longer, because people are able to live longer, and because better medical care means you're able to do more at sixty two or sixty one than you were able to do fifty sixty years ago.
It means that, their labor is value is valuable economically, and because we don't think that the retirement age is anything but an arbitrary line, we think we ought create a retirement age that best reflects a median, or a meeting point, between the ability for people to live meaningful lives after they've retired, but also the necessity for these people to contribute into welfare programs, so that current generations are able to receive those benefits.
We think that everyone is entitled to those benefits, and without a drastic change occurring right now, it simply the case that in the future, people will not be able to collect the benefits and be able to retire at the same age.
Given that this is, frankly, a necessity of changing demographics, and given that people will still be able to live a meaningful life post-retirement, given the rasing given the the mortality the raising life expectancy, and things of that nature.
We think it's absolutely crucial that we raise the retirement age, and in fact we should raise the retirement age.