Surrogacy should not be banned.
In this debate, we think it's important at the very top to recognize that oftentimes when people argue against allowing surrogacy and allowing women to bear the children of other couples, one argument that almost always comes up is that this is a coercive system, that it coerces people of lower classes to use their body in order to bear the children of other people, and that this is an immensely reprehensible act, because you take the children away from these women as soon as they've given birth to them after they've bore them, after they've carried them in their womb for nine months, all of these types of things.
What's important to recognize about every argument about coercion that comes up is that in a in a capitalist system, in which there are financial incentives to do things that aren't always pleasant, anything can be described as coercive.
Making people go to work can be described as coercive, because if you don't go to work you could be in a lower economic state.
That is the same case of surrogacy.
We don't think that these arguments about coercion are meaningful unless there is actual physical coercion, and in the case of surrogacy this simply is not the case.
The reason for this is that yes, while some people may be led to be a surrogate in a situation in if they in a situation which they otherwise would not have done so had they not had the financial incentives provided to them, that is the case of almost every market interaction for things that are unpleasant, and we don't think it adds depth to a debate about this important issue.
That being said, we're going to provide three main arguments about why surrogacy should not be banned.
So the first argument we're going to make is that this action denies women agency over their bodies in a one way limitation.
What this means is that this isn't this is a limitation placed on the bodily autonomy of only women.
This is an activity that's where a patriarchal system has been perpetuated time and again in our society, time and again women have had restrictions placed on them as to what they are allowed to do, how they're able to behave in our social apparatus, how they're be able how they're able to behave in our political system, and how they are able to use their own bodies in ways that men are never legislated.
We think that women should be treated as fully autonomous adults.
Adults that can have an understanding of the repercussions of their actions, and can make the choice that is best for them.
Women have the intelligence to understand that bearing another couple's child may come with emotional trauma, it may come with physical hardship, it may come with a whole assorted amount of external harms that they can be prior informed about and make an informed decision about.
By banning surrogacy you don't protect these women in a meaningful way, you just restrict them of their bodily autonomy in a way that never would happen for men.
Secondly, we would say that this denies family families the opportunity for a biological child.
There's a drive in many people to have a biological child, and without surrogacy we don't think that people would be able to fulfill this drive, and we don't think that this is a drive that harms anyone.
Given that these people, these surrogates, can become informed, we don't see why this is a meaningful harm.
But if you are afraid of abuse, we think that banning surrogacy is the most likely way to have abuse.
Why?
Because people are going to naturally want to have biological children in instances in which one partner cannot bear that child.
In those instances, we think it's incredibly likely that people turn to a black market, a black market that cannot be regulated.
One in which surrogacy contracts cannot be drawn up that defend the women from types of abuses, one in which women cannot be guaranteed compensation for the actions they are taking, and one in which real physical abuse is much more likely to occur, especially for those who are of the lower classes.
If you want to ensure the protection of women, if you want to uphold bodily autonomy, and if you care about women's rights, we would say that surrogacy should not be banned.