We should not disband unesco.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why unesco is worth saving.
The first is that we think the goals it has are genuinely good and are things that should be pursued, and that unesco is the body to do it, and the second is that reform is simply better than disbanding.
So we're going to address some of the issues that unesco has, and then explain why they can be fixed.
All right, so on its goals: we're going to talk about three main goals that unesco has and why they're so beneficial.
The first is global education.
Unesco has lots of money coming into it to try and aid and improve global education, to try and foster improving education in areas like developing countries where children simply do not have access to the education that will set them ahead.
We think that this is clearly a beneficial goal.
We think that it's clearly very important that these children have a head start in the world given that they're already being set so far behind due to the lack of development, the lack of infrastructure, the lack of healthcare, and that these are the ways with improving education that you help foster growth in countries in the long run.
Second, they help children in need additionally.
They provide additional aid to children and to needy families, things like food aid, things like healthcare.
They have a broad approach in trying to help and aid children in developing areas outside of just their educational programs and again, these things are crucial.
We don't think that children in developing nations deserve to have the hardship that they that they are forced to have in their lives.
We don't think they've done anything to earn that hardship, to earn the starving nights, to earn the disease that can't be treated.
All these things are just simply the the outcome of poor luck in being born in certain areas, and we think that unesco has lots of funding from many different states and many different global organizations, and it does a good job in helping these children.
Finally, it also sets up world heritage sites.
We think that this is beneficial simply because at the rate of global deterioration, at the rate that we are deforesting, at the rate that we are polluting, at the rate that we are causing massive changes to our environment, it's important to save certain areas of our world and keep them in pristine condition.
And that's what a world heritage site designation does.
It allows you to get funding in order to keep up the area.
It ensures that no different type of construction can be done on that area.
It means that it must be maintained in its current condition.
All these things are beneficial, and it's a way to pass on the heritage of our world to future generations.
So, why do we think reform is better than disbanding?
We think that most of the flaws that come from unesco, things like having biases towards certain countries when choosing where to give aid and where to give world heritage site designations, things like having misogyny and corruption in their upper ranks, we think that all these stem from the choices of who is in charge at unesco rather than the body itself.
We don't think that the aid that unesco does is where corruption comes from.
We don't think that it is an intrinsic part of the organization that all these things need to happen.
We just think that it needs to be cleaned out.
We need a fresh start for unesco.
This doesn't mean disbanding unesco, though.
This means taking a critical look at those that are currently in charge, firing those that simply cannot do their jobs sufficiently and cannot do their jobs in a fair manner and moving on to find new people to lead the organization, to do the good work that needs to be done.
For these reasons, we should not disband unesco.