We should limit the use of birth control.
In this round we want to make our model clear.
We think that as a society we should try to abstain from using birth control of all forms whether it's the pill, whether it's a condom, whether it's other types of birth control all acts, all types.
We want to limit access legally to those who are over eighteen unless they have the permission of their parent to have birth control and we think it would be better as a general norm that people did not use birth control as frequently.
So this may sound counterintuitive, but we're going to make two broad arguments.
The first is that you have a less sexualized culture and we're going to explain why that's better, and second, we're going to talk about more parental control.
So we think generally this motion is largely impacting those that are of younger ages because when people are older they have the ability to make these choices largely for themselves because of the way we've set up the model but we think that young people today growing up are growing up in a hyper-sexual culture one in which there's huge pressures to have sex.
We think it's very difficult to internalize the emotional impact of that action as a young person.
Many people who are growing up in this culture don't understand that being in a sexual relationship, being vulnerable in that sexual relationship, having a healthy sexual relationship, how difficult these things are and how they can be emotionally and mentally draining and how in bad scenarios people can end up in really bad emotional and mental states.
We think it's better to check against the potential of long term long term sexual emotional issues and suspend that pressure as much as possible.
By limiting the access to birth control, we think you deter the amount of people that are ultimately going to try and have sex.
We think that when you have fewer people having sex, you end up having a less sexualized culture because if fewer people are sexually active, that's fewer people in places like high schools, in places like in extracurriculars that young people are involved, we think that they're less likely to be talking about their sexual relationships to be putting implicit pressure on others to be involved in a sexual relationship because simply there's going to be fewer people that can have safe sex.
Some may say that this is going to lead to more unprotected sex but we think that in the status quo, there are already plenty of people that have that and there's plenty deterrence against that because because of the impacts of a potential unwanted pregnancy.
So we think that you're more likely to have a larger decrease in people that are creating the sexualized culture than you are people resulting in unwanted pregnancies.
Secondly more parental control.
We think that parents are the most informed people about their children.
They almost always have the best interest of their child in mind because of that close connection that one has as a parent to a child.
Parents know if their children are ready for a sexual relationship and we think legally limiting the use of birth control to people that are over eighteen is preferable because it means that you're setting this bar at which people generally are able to make safe choices, are able to make responsible choices but below that age, we think it's questionable whether someone really is able to consent into a sexual relationship, to fully understand what that means.
But parents are those that are probably most likely to understand whether or not a child is ready for that and while it may be difficult to talk to your parents about sex, we think it's better to be doing that than to try and run around behind one's parent's back and make decisions that a person is going to regret in the future.
There's no clear right to birth control.
There's no clear right to have as much protected sex you want.
But we think what parents do have is a right to raise their child in the way that they see fit, to raise their child with a moral with a moral life and a moral upbringing in the way that they see best and for these reasons, we should limit the use of birth control.