We should not ban telemarketing.
The the crux of argument in this round is that this ban would simply be an unjust ban that for the government to take such an action like this would be to violate the very principles that the government is rested upon and leads to a slippery slope in which bans become far more random and far more based on people's preferences and majoritarianism rather than on real principled government action.
So the first argument that we're going to make under this unjust ban argument is that the government is by default an unjust actor and this violates its ability to become a just actor.
So let's walk through that.
We would say that the government has obviously unilateral authority to enact laws and a monopoly on the legitimate use of force to control how people are allowed to behave.
The government inherently restricts the actions that people are able that they have the capacity to take.
The people are not able to consent to the vast majority of the aspects of government rule.
There's no social construct or no social contract that allowed for people to voice their consent and determine what give and take they're going to have between themselves and their government.
They have limited control over a very small portion of elected officials as any one person in a state you have no control over laws that are already in place and finally you can really and as an individual only move between governments you cannot remove yourself from government altogether and therefore the choice is coercive no matter where you end up.
This means that the government needs to create laws that people would consent to in order to be just because without consent you're just using a bully pulpit to force people to do things and using your power in an unjust manner.
And you think we say you need to find a proxy for consent.
We would say that this proxy is freedom.
Freedom is what people give up when they move into society from the state of nature and therefore the government should act in such a way to maximize freedom even when they're restricting freedom in certain instances.
You do this because unlimited freedom ultimately leads to no freedom for anyone because you have no protections with that freedom.
So let's talk about bans now.
Given that the government should exist to maximize freedom, bans are mechanism for limiting that freedom and therefore can only be done under certain circumstances, so let's talk about those.
The first is when there's an asymmetry of information.
What this means is that there's some sort of knowledge that the government has or that third parties have that the people do not have and that this imbalance in power leads to harms for those that are using in this case telemarketing, that are being subject to telemarketing.
But this simply is not the case, there's no asymmetry of information between you and a telemarketer besides what that telemarketer's going to tell you.
Final another reason could be that there's some sort of necessary third party harm that the action is going to lead to harm to someone that could not consent to that action being taken.
We think that neither of those of the case with telemarketing because there's very simple ways in which you can solve for any sort of harm that may come from telemarketing.
We think that you start to open up a slippery slope if we just bad things because they're mildly irksome to people which is essentially what telemarketing is and what this ban would be.
You can just not answer the phone, most people of caller ID nowadays.
You can just hang up, you can politely say no when someone tries to sell you something.
None of these solutions require government action but all of them remove any harm from the act.
Showing that a ban simply isn't necessary to alleviate any harm and all it would do would be to restrict freedom based on majoritarian annoyance at telemarketing rather than sort of any sort of genuine harm and really opens a door to immense government oversight that is unjust.
For these reasons, we should not ban telemarketing.