We should not end athletic scholarships.
So I think it's crucial first to just deal with what the the government team says in that when you have these type of athletic scholarships, they're simply distraction, that it creates opportunities for minorities that this is true, but that these are not the best ways to create opportunities and that other scholarship programs should exist otherwise.
The problem with this is that it creates sort of a double-bind for the government.
What this means is that if it's true that there is political efficacy to create these types of programs, to create more scholarships based on merit and financial need for minority communities, then it's the case that these things can occur with athletic scholarships generally, it just means that some of these merit and financial need case cases would rather be dealt with through academic or athletic scholarships rather than academic scholarships.
Or it's the case that there isn't political will for these types of things and it's very unclear why removing athletic scholarships would increase the political will for this, who would simply increase the political will for getting more athletes scholarships which I don't think this deals with the minority communities that are being ignored in the status quo for very problematic but strong reasons.
And so given that this is the case, I don't think it's it's enough in this round to say that an athletic scholarship is bad because it means that other sort of possibilities are excluded.
What the government needs to show you is that these opportunities are actually being are mutually exclusive from each other.
So why do we think that athletic scholarships are generally pretty good, even if you buy what they're saying about how other opportunities are being left out?
So, what we think athletic scholarships actually do is that in many places, especially in the united states, minority and underserved educational systems mean that large portions of minority populations never get a fair shake at college, because the college application process is not just one in which you need to have good grades but also where you need to have gone to a good enough school where those grades matter.
And when you have very low-ranked schools in urban areas, it means that individuals that could potentially go to college in these areas are often being excluded simply because of the school that they went to.
But, athletics offers a alternative means of getting into these schools.
So why is this so good?
Firstly, it means that these underprivileged and under these communities in which the education systems are so bad.
It means that in those communities it gives a way out for individuals but it also means that college is so crucial in the status quo.
In order to get future potential earnings, future potential job opportunities, and all these things just because someone is bad in school, in high school and middle school, doesn't necessarily mean that they don't serve go to college.
It doesn't mean that they don't deserve to have their opportunities open for them, the networking opportunities open to them that are available at college, the ability to open and enlighten oneself that it happens in college.
And we think that having people that are able to dedicate their time and their physical prowess to these types of fields, to athletics, is not necessarily a burden on the school but rather a benefit to the school.
In places that have division one sports in the united states, these these athletes are incredibly beneficial as far as the money that comes into the school through TV deals and things like this.
This means that you can actually offer more scholarships to people when you're bringing more money in, so it doesn't mean that athletic scholarships are exclusionary but actually give a pathway to get more scholarships in, especially for division one schools which are often very good schools educationally as well.
What we think this means is that when you have the athletic scholarships, you give opportunity to people that are either excluded because they simply didn't do as well in the academic sense in school or because their schools have been undervalued by college admissions processes and this gives a check on that type of undervaluing.
Given that this is the case and you're actually allowing for more inclusion that comes into these colleges and more inclusion of underserved communities that have in the past been massively discriminated against, we think that you certainly should not end athletic scholarships.