Randomized controlled trials bring more good than harm.
When we're talking about randomized controlled trials, we think we're generally talking about medical trials for the most part, things that have to do with things such as any type of medication that you take either through a pill or through some other type of medical treatment that is tested by separating two groups: one that gets a placebo treatment but is otherwise treated exactly the same and one that receives a real treatment whatever that treatment may be.
So, in this round what we want to talk about is how these these trials allow for important checks and important information to arise and that in the comparative we think that the long term considerations outweigh the short term considerations that some people will not receive treatment.
So, what we think are the important things that these trials reveal.
Well firstly, they allow to test to see the actual effectiveness of the drug.
By allowing a control group to exist, you ensure that the placebo effect or other types of biases that occur when individuals believe they're getting the treatment systemic biases that may occur, you can check for those types of things to ensure that what you're doing in the test is not the cause of the results you're seeing, but to ensure that the drug itself was actually having the desired effect that you want to have on a patient.
And this is crucial, because if you're going to, as a company, put these things out to a mass market or if it's government sponsored, if you're going to give this treatment to individuals, you want to ensure that this treatment is going to be effective.
You want to ensure that what's occurring isn't something else outside of the treatment that's being effective and you want to ensure that these drugs are going to be safe, which is the other problem.
These methods also check to see if side effects are likely to occur because again, treatment can cause different types of bad and abnormal responses.
But this could be the cause of the way that the test is conducted itself, and if you don't have this control group that's randomly selected, then you can't ensure that the side effects that you're seeing and the type of abnormal effects from the pill that you're seeing or whatever type of treatment, are caused by that treatment and not caused by something else.
So it's incredibly important to find out the safety of the pill as well as the efficaciousness of the pill or medical treatment, whatever you may be talking about is reliant on being able to have these controlled trials to be able to check that these things are correct.
And the scientific consensus is the same, that this is the most efficacious way to ensure that the treatment that's being done is actually being done effectively and to ensure that the results of the treatment, the results of the trial, are as quality as they can be moving forward.
Why is this is so important?
We think that these types of trials insure that drugs that get to market are more often than not going to be efficacious in treating what they're designed to treat.
Why do we think that this is important?
Because in the long run, when these trials are conducted with scientific rigor and with all the checks needed to ensure efficacy, what we think you're most likely going to see is that you saved more lives because when these treatments go to market they're more likely to be effective and that you're less likely to have people that aren't getting the desired effects from these treatments when you have a more rigorous type of testing.
We don't think that there's any particular right to this medical treatment.
Yes, you may have some sort of broad claim against the state that it provides some sort of medical care for you, but these are largely done by private corporations, big pharmaceutical companies that are testing new treatment methods or private hospitals things like this.
And given that this is the case, we don't think you have a right to their intellectual property, to what they're developing just because you're sick individual.
This may seem callous, but we don't think that just because you're in this particular type of situation, you can make a claim against these private corporations.
And the fact that they're doing this, is in the long run, more of a service then not to the world, to society.
And because of this, we think that we'd rather have these long term affects, the long term desired outcomes, than to sacrifice some sort of short term life preservation.
If you do a simple long term calculus, given that the lives of the future are just as important as the lives of people that exists right now, we think that on balance randomized controlled trials bring more good than harm.