We should not abolish no knock warrants.
So before we start this debate, we want to give an overview about what makes these warrants distinct from the traditional warrant that someone would get when they want to search a premises or seize property or anything like that.
In order to get this type of warrant, a no knock warrant, there's a higher burden of proof than a standard warrant.
You need to show probable cause for the belief that if you do not get a no knock warrant people will destroy evidence or otherwise be violent when you try and approach them.
They also need to show reason to believe that this person is guilty.
These warrants have the same type of restrictions placed on them, the same type of level and burden of proof in order to investigate someone in order to go into their home, in order to seize their property as any other warrant with additional checks.
We think that those additional checks make it the case that these things are unlikely to be abused and that the worst case scenario that gov lays out is unlikely to be attained.
So we think and the only argument we're going to make is that you get a better criminal justice system when you have no knock warrants and there's a few reasons for this.
Generally we would agree police should not have the ability to barge into a home unannounced however, when you have these types of reasonable restrictions and reasonable standards of proof in order to get these types of warrants and limits are put in place, this allows for flexibility in policing in in criminal justice and when in a number of situations you do need this type of flexibility.
So what does that flexibility look like?
One example is organized crime units who are armed.
When you're approaching a situation which you're trying to make an arrest for example, trying to make an arrest of a high level cartel or organized crime member in which they have a number of a number of thugs and a number of people around them that are willing to kill and die for that person, you put officers lives at risk when you go into that dangerous situation and before you go in, before you barge into the house, before you barge into the asylum, you knock on the door and you give warning that you're approaching.
It gives time for the cartel or the organized crime syndicate or whatever to organize their defense and to get into position and and it more likely than not is going to put more officers lives at risk.
It's going to lead to more deaths of officers who are simply doing their job than if you simply barged into the home unannounced, didn't give time for them to prepare a defense, and didn't give them time to arm themselves like you do with a with a traditional warrant.
This is a case when we think that no knock warrants one, the burden of proof would be met when you can show that these people are likely to be armed and dangerous because you can show their past behavior would indicate you to believe that and two, we think this is an instance in which this type of warrant is perfectly reasonable.
Yes, you need to balance the rights of the innocent and the rights of defendants and the rights of citizens not to be invaded in their own home, but you need to balance that with the lives of police officers who are putting their lives at risk to defend those same civilians.
The other instance in which a no knock warrant is really important is when white collar crime is going on.
When there are numerous valuable records to keep track of the financial interactions that track that crime.
It's incredibly easy to wipe a computer hard drive, to destroy external hard drives, to wipe those drives and to just destroy the technology that holds entire gigabytes of data that show and show the proof and show that people are guilty.
It's very easy to just wipe that information clean and if you have a no knock warrant you're able to go in there and get that evidence.
If warrant is given it means police already intend to gather that evidence.
They already went through the legal procedures and there's no right for a defendant to get a five minute head start to escape the police or to destroy evidence.
The rights and the rights of warrants, the rights not to be barged in on your home and to have your home invaded by police without any sort of warning is not meant to allow people to have this time and this leeway to destroy evidence and that's what no knock warrants avoid.
They avoid people being able to do those types of things.
They don't stretch the boundaries of what is and not what is and is not legally allowed, they simply ensure that people don't abuse the rights and and protections that are afforded to citizens.
We think that given the level of the burden of proof to get these type of warrant, that the situations in which you would get this warrant are justified and for these reasons, we should not abolish no knock warrants.