We should protect whistle blowers.
When we say we're going to protect whistleblowers, what we're going to do is we're going to ensure that there are certain rights protections that are put in place when someone reveals some sort of classified government information for particular reasons.
So, what we mean by this is that a whistleblower is not just some government spy handing data over to state enemies.
It's not just an opportunist who sees some way of making quick money off of sensitive information.
It's someone that is genuinely putting forward information because fear fear of what the government is doing, and because they want to illuminate the public.
They want the public to be aware of these things.
In those instances and, yes, it's nebulous to define those, but in those instances, we would make it difficult for the government to prosecute.
We would set an incredibly high standard that needs to be met to say that someone doesn't meet the protections of whistle blower, and we think that this is going to have a number of good impacts to protect from government malpractice.
We think that whistle blowers exist because the government often does things behind closed doors that either go behind the go beyond the scope of the government or are overtly corrupt: so either, government practices, government policies, that are unknown to the public that go beyond what the government should be allowed to do or are based on individual corrupt actors.
Because a political operative has an immense amount of cover and security for their actions, not only do they behave in a in a particular playing field in which they're given an immense amount of resources, the benefit of the doubt, connections with people that are in power, but they also often do these types of things behind closed doors, so it's already difficult to find out.
So, it's often impossible to discern corrupt behavior from the outside.
You need someone like a whistleblower, who is within the operation, who's within the operative's live, and within the operative's line of work, that can inform the public about the wrongdoing.
When it comes to sensitive state information, like the fact that the US has been, for a long time now, spying on its citizens and doing bulk data collection of its citizens, classified information prevents that stuff prevents information about those programs from falling into non-governmental hands.
As a populace, we know that sometimes that things need to be classified, that there are certain government actions that are only capable of being done if they are classified, and do protect the citizenry.
But we should want a system in which when the government goes too far, when the government has done something that falls beyond it's constitutional allowance or falls beyond what what the populace voted into office, what the populace popularly wanted to have occur, that someone would make us aware of those things.
Because if you don't have a whistleblower, these things can go on for decades without any sort of check.
Having whistleblower protections makes it far easier for concerned citizens to come out and make government malpractice known.
It makes it easier for those people to have the security and to know: if I reveal this I don't have to abandon my whole life.
I don't need to flee to russia or to ecuador or some other country, and I don't need to abandon everything that I've known in the world just because I'm doing what I think is morally the right thing to do.
What do we think the impacts of this are?
You get a more informed voter base, which means when government malpractice occurs, the voter base is aware of it, and they can determine whether or not we genuinely believe that the government is acting properly or new people need to be brought in to to repeal the old guard.
It also forces the public to pay closer attention to government action.
When you highlight the instances of government malpractice, we think it incentivizes people to look further into the government, because they become more aware that the government is behaving in these negative ways.
We think a more informed voter base is always good.
Yes, sometimes information is going to be released on our in our world where we wouldn't want that to be released, but I would rather live in a world in which there's a little more information out there for potential political enemies of the state to use than a world in which when government malpractice occurs, the population has no way of knowing about it.
For these reasons, we should protect whistleblowers.