Teacher tenure reform brings more good than harm.
When we're talking about teacher tenure reform we're not talking specifically about the elimination of tenure altogether, what we think this looks most like is a reform in a couple of ways.
Firstly, we think that the way that teachers would get tenure under a reform system is rather one that's based on longevity teaching, is rather one that is based on improvement of students in the way that we think that you can create this is having students, say, take standardized tests prior to and following the end of a course and seeing their relative improvement.
So not necessarily proficiency but rather the degree to which students improve under a teacher.
We thing that is a system that fairly assesses the actual impact of the teacher, and we think that ten year rather than being a permanent system could be something that is moderated so that if you receive tenure it would be more like a five year guarantee of a job rather than a permanent guarantee of a job, or a five year or some sort of other marginalized amount of time in which teachers wouldn't be able to be fired without a just cause or something like that.
We think that this is a good balancing to ensure that there is still reason for people to become educators.
That there's still a benefit to becoming an educator and some sort of job security that comes with that, but we think that it also combats the worst problems that come with tenure which I'm going to talk about now.
So we think that what tenure ends up doing is that it ensures that teachers that are of lower quality get to keep their jobs and status quo.
We think that this has dramatic impacts on students across the board.
We think that firstly what tenure does is that once there's a permanent guarantee that you're not going to lose your job, it means that teachers that are not entirely motivated to help their students, so not the best teachers.
We think that the best teachers are likely going to remain motivated to try and improve their students, but we can that those below that tier, those that were just able to get tenure or those that have been around for a long period of time, we think that what tenure does is that it doesn't lead them to innovate in the way that they act in the classroom nor does it lead them to motivate their students to become learners because once someone has been guaranteed the fact that their job is secure there's no real motivation or reason that they need to to go anywhere beyond what is necessarily required of them, and we think that many educators after especially those that have tenure, those that have been working for say ten, twenty years, we think that those that were in the system for a long period of time are often those that are most worn down by the system and this means that those that have had tenure for the longest period of time are often going to be the worst teachers.
We think that the impacts on students because of this are clear.
When students are not motivated to learn by their teachers we think that their likely going to try and slack off in class, they're less likely to take learning rigorously.
I personally have been in a room where a teacher left the teaching to students, where this is a teacher that had tenure and said we're going to I'm going to let you teach your peers and we think that this is a system that is incredibly problematic because it puts the responsibility of learning onto the on to the students but also the responsibility of teaching themselves.
I would point the point of a teacher kinda becomes obsolete.
We think that when you have tenure reform you're likely going to get people more motivated to work hard because they need to continually show proficiency in order to be guaranteed that tenure spot and once someone has tenure, there's no longer this permanent slacking that they can do.
There's no longer this permanent system in which they don't need to try and improve their students.
They don't need to try and prove themselves as a teacher because five, ten years however long it may be down the line when they need to get tenure again, or when they need to keep their job, they can simply revert to showing they can simply revert to the bad ways and the bad practices that teachers with tenure have done in the status quo.
We think that tenure reform is the best way to insure that teachers still get the benefits that are owed to the best teachers while ensuring that the worst teachers don't stay in the system, don't dilute the education that students have, and don't force the responsibility of educating on to the students themselves and motivate them to become lifelong learners.
We think that a system that exists in the status quo is never going to be sufficient in achieving that and that's why teacher tenure reform will do more more good than harm.