Television does more good than harm.
There are two aspects with the debate that we think need to be considered, particularly in the context of how television came to develop and the impacts that that television has had on society from its conception.
Firstly, we think we want to talk about the spread of news and how television allowed for any greater spread of news and more political interaction in a broad form, and secondly we're going to talk about how it decentralized entertainment and allowed for a birth of a new type of entertainment that allowed for greater creativity and more subcultures to develop, that led to ultimately more flourishing and more self actualization amongst viewership.
So firstly on the spread of news.
Acknowledging that news has existed obviously since before television came to exist that daily interactions with the news and political interactions occurred through newspapers and things like that, we think that television allowed for a new form of interaction between both politicians and the people that they supported, and the people that they existed to serve, and also between news people and how the news organizations interact with society in a beneficial way.
We think that what allowed to happen was firstly that politicians were able to have a more easy way of interacting with those that they represented.
They were able to both interact with news organizations directly, and interact on a personal level.
We think that the interactions that one has, from a type face to face, in real life interaction, is more significant in giving emotional status and showing support for an individual, in being able to get your ideas across in an unbiased way, all these types of things we think are easier than when you're simply doing it through newsprint, or even over the radio.
Why do we think this matters?
Because we think that the ability for individuals to better assess their politicians, both from their own points, from the politicians' perspective and how they're putting themselves into the world, we think that the ability for individuals to assess that became greater with the spread of television and also television, secondly, give rise to new media outlets that allowed for more scrutiny over those politicians.
The rise of twenty four hour news may also given the rise to some sort of extremist news, and to new and to spreads of news that we think in some respects are problematic in the idea that what we're choosing to cover is things like celebrities, those things might be problematic.
But we think that what you can't deny is that politicians are under more scrutiny now thanks to the rise of television than before.
We think that this is crucial for allowing individuals to assess their politicians and to be active political participants in choosing how they're going to vote, and how they're going to interact with the world.
Secondly, on how it decentralized entertainment.
We think that television uniquely provides both long and short form entertainment and is able to do this in the cereal manner.
We can get new types of entertainment on a week to week basis.
Why do we think that this is good?
We think that you get more passionate interaction with the entertainment you're consuming when it's on a more consistent basis, and when it's in a variety of forms.
So what are the problems of prior types of entertainment through things like reading and books?
We think that these long form entertainments were brief stints of intense passion interaction with the entertainment you're consuming, but ultimately takes long periods of time to go from book to book, or oftentimes single books.
We don't think that this creates long form passion and things like cereals and newspapers create short form entertainment, but don't really give the depth that's necessary to have a deep interaction with your entertainment.
Why does any of this matter?
We think that when you have a deep interaction with the spheres of entertainment you have, you're more likely to create subcultures that allow you to interact with your community in a more diverse way.
It gives you new communities to interact with and from there to socialize with and gain appreciation and support with, but also it allows for a growth of community when you have a variety of these forms of entertainment through television shows, that come on weekly, that people choose to interact with on a regular basis.
We think that these communities are unique from the previous types of entertainment that were able to exist before, and we think that these types of communities are giving rise to better social interaction, and ultimately led to things like the burgeoning the internet, and the spread of social media that allowed for even more communication the future.
Without television, and these types of entertainment forms being created through television, we don't think that we could have the modern world we do today, and therefore we think that television has done more good than harm.