Boarding schools are not advantageous.
In this debate, what we think we're talking about, is not necessarily that there are no advantages to boarding schools, or rather that the advantages, that come from boarding schools, are outweighed by the harms that go into having these types of things, and when we're talking about boarding schools, we're talking about schools in which people stay overnight, oftentimes staying for long periods of time, but sometimes going home on the weekends to see their families.
This is what the debate is about.
So, that being said, we think that, there are a few reasons that boarding schools are not advantageous.
The first, is the effect that it has on the children that end up going to boarding schools.
Recognize that, in our common culture boarding schools are already viewed as this thing, that parents send their children to, when their children are unwanted, that boarding school is a punishment, that someone receives when they've been an unruly child, or that, it's something that you send someone to when you simply don't need them in your house anymore, when you can't take care of them efficiently, and that it's often because of the poor behavior of the of the child that is being sent there.
While this is usually not the case, that is what the popular image is of boarding schools in our culture.
Why is this important for the child?
Two reasons: first, we think that child a child being away from their family at a long period of time, actually hurts their development.
While it might be able to make them independent, we don't think that this is really the case.
In boarding school, similar things are taken care of for you, as are taken care of for you at home: your dishes, your food, your laundry.
These types of things are oftentimes taken care of for you, but even when they aren't, we don't think that there's an immense amount of growth that comes to a child.
But, what we do think happens is that this child is being told that they're not welcome in the house anymore.
Whether parents are supportive, when they send their children to boarding school or not, children read the implicit signs that are available to them, and when they're being told: " we don't want you to come home after school, but rather we want you to stay far away from us, for the vast majority of the weekend, for most of our time ", it sends a signal to a child, that they're lesser, and sends a signal to a child that they're different from other people, and we think that this is problematic.
We think that, when you do this to children, it doesn't spur their development, rather makes them more er less inclusive, more exclusionary.
It makes them form cliques, amongst the people that are already there, and it puts them into a dangerous mind space, moving on to the future, which we think is bad, especially, when it's compounded with the fact, that, the people that are being sent to boarding schools are often children of elite weak families.
It's not very popular for eh it's not really feasible for lower class and middle class people to send their children to these schools, because they're expensive, and public schools are just a superior alternative when you're on a budget.
Given that this is the case, what we actually think you do, is you just create an elite, exclusionary circle within these schools, that perpetuates into the future, creates a mindset that these are the people that are my people, these are the people that I'm connected to, that care for me, and it creates mental biases against the out group.
We think that, what this does is it harms people's ability to create empathy into the future, which means that when these people, oftentimes because they come from money, will end up having money in the future.
When that's the case, we think that they're less caring of those that are less fortunate than them.
We think this means that, people that problems, such as the wage gap, and problem such as economic inequality, that are major issues with our world right now, these things are only perpetuated, when the elites that have the power to change that system, are created are spurred from society, or feel like they're being spurred from society, immediately in their development, and while this isn't something, that is going to be explicitly told to them or anything like that, and maybe they'll even be supported by their parents, and feel supported, we think that, most children in these instances, feel like they're being excluded, and feel left out from society.
And, whether or not that's the case, that feeling can be incredibly powerful.
And, we simply think that it's not worth the risk on their other, usually equal, de-	 eh educational options, that are just private schools, that aren't overnight schools, where children are allowed to grow with their families, feel nurtured, and feel an inclusion within their community rather beings sent away.
For those reasons, we think the boarding schools simply are not advantageous.