We should not ban alternative medicine.
So, alternative medicine is any type of medicine that hasn't been scientifically proven in like scientific testing, in lab testing, to be something that is suitable on the pharmaceutical market, but it's an alternative type of medicine that people can consume that may have some effects.
So, first, we would say that such a ban would be an unjust ban and secondly, we're gonna talk about the benefits of the placebo effect.
So, on the ban: we would say that the state is fundamentally a coercive body that has the power to wield an immense amount of influence over people's lives.
It has a coercive apparatus that dictates what people are and are not allowed to do.
We would say secondarily that people aren't able to fully consent to the state, that even if there was some sort of proxy for consent like voting, even if there is some sort of proxy like jury duty, paying taxes, all these things, there's no way to actually consent to all of the laws, the laws that have been created over an entirety of a state's lifetime.
In you know, for example, in the united states, it's there's no way that I could consent to all three hundred years of legislation that dictate the things that I can and cannot to in my life.
It's simply not a feasible thing to do.
Given that this is the case, there's no real way for people to consent in action and in order to make up for that, in order for the state to not be something more than a cartel, it needs to find a principle of government that can serve as a proxy for consent.
We would say that people opt into the state because outside of the state, there are no protections of freedom.
Outside of the state, you have a an infinite amount of freedom.
There's no limits on what you can do, but that also means there's no limits on what everyone else can do, and it means that people can cause you harm and can strip you of your freedom without any sort of protection for you.
So, we think that fundamentally the state should strive to maximize freedom in order to be just, but a ban contradicts freedom directly.
It's an overt contradiction of freedom.
It is a limitation.
So we think that in order to ban something, you need to have a strong principled reason, and we think there are three times when this can happen.
The first is when there's an asymmetry of information that causes direct harm.
Well, in this instance, there is probably some sort of asymmetry of information.
There are people that hold false beliefs about the benefits of alternative medicine, but this isn't something that's going to cause them direct harm.
This would cause direct harm if they didn't know about other alternative options.
But if you're, say, a cancer patient who's gone through a number of different treatments and there's no good being done to you, you've gone through traditional medical routes and you want to try alternative medicine, we don't think there's a direct harm given that you've tried the alternatives.
Secondly, a direct third-party harm.
This is clearly not the case.
If I choose to take some sort of alternative medicine instead of treating myself with traditional medical treatments, if even if it harms me, that's fine.
If I know what I'm doing, if I know there's a chance that it's not going to help me, that's fine, but there's no direct third-party harm that's coming into the picture and therefore, we don't think you can ban.
Finally, there could be some sort of overwhelming good to the community, but we don't think this exists here.
This is a very individual decision that has individualized impacts.
So, finally, on the placebo effect.
So, time and again, science has shown that there is an impact that is caused by the placebo effect.
The degree of the impact is debatable, but there is certainly an impact that comes when people think that the medicine they're taking is going to do them some good.
And, on top of that, alternative medicine isn't medicine that has been proven one hundred percent not to work.
It's medicine that hasn't passed the scientific rigors that show that it does work.
So there is, in combination with the placebo effect, a potentiality that this alternative medicine does help people.
And given that people know that alternative medicine has not been approved, they know that this isn't something that's going to guarantee them impacts, that this is something that they can choose and they should be able to choose whether or not they want to use for their own medical treatment.
And for these reasons, we should not ban alternative medicine.