We should end the use of mass surveillance.
In this round, when we're talking about ending mass surveillance, we're not just talking about in the united states.
We think that this this applies broadly to all states, that mass surveillance should not be a thing.
Many of the arguments we make will be based in the united states, but we think that those are transferable across state lines.
So, firstly, we think that a right to privacy should exist and, in the case of the united states, has been codified to exist.
Why do we think that this should exist?
We think that what is fundamental to someone being forced into the state, when someone is a part of the state, we think that it is clear that there should be a separation of private and public life: that people should have the ability to do in their own homes what they see fit, in their private communications, they should be able to speak freely with their peers, with their friends, with their family, without fear that the government is going to get wind of that, and that they should have they shouldn't have this fear that the government is constantly watching them.
It's the plot to every dystopian novel throughout the nineteen hundreds: that the government is going to watch our every move, that the government is going to be able to know everything about what we do and that because of that, the government can intercede in our lives in any number of ways.
And this is coming to pass now because of how digitally connected we are.
Because with our phones, you can track our communications, our location, our purchasing activity, all of this can and is being tracked by the government.
We think that this goes far beyond what is acceptable under a free state.
We think that the free state should allow people to have this separation, this privacy that they can go back into, that when they're acting in their own life, in their own private sphere, that the state shouldn't be able to intercede without any good reason.
And that leads to our second issue, that mass surveillance violates due process.
When mass surveillance is employed, when the government is able to scan our phones, and scan our computers, and and monitor all of our communications, we think that this directly violates due process.
It is codified in the united states constitution.
You can look at, for example, how you need a warrant before you can go and investigate someone's home, before you can break into their home and do a search.
You need to have a just cause for doing so.
You need to have a reasonable belief that a crime is being committed before you can do something like that.
You can't just violate someone's private sphere, but that's exactly what mass surveillance does.
It says we are going to bypass the idea that we need to have a reasonable cause to search someone, and we're going to search their private lives.
We're going to probe their private activities without any sort of just cause and that maybe if we come up with something, we can then use that to criminally prosecute someone, or we can use that to get a warrant to then criminally prosecute someone.
That goes that undermines the entire criminal justice system that we have in the united states and that exists in most just western liberal democracies.
And if that's the case, we think that mass surveillance clearly cannot cannot stay.
But finally, there's the risk of data breaches.
Now, when the government is gathering all of this information about our private lives, there are third-party groups in other states that can hack that data that's being collected, which means that not only is this data being taken in a way that violates due process and our right to privacy, but it's also being stored on servers that are vulnerable to being hacked by other people that could use that information for nefarious purposes.
Whether it's to blackmail or to steal someone's identity, all of these things are problematic and all of them are possible.
Just look at how russian hacking has invaded election systems in the united states.
There's no reason to believe that that same hacking hacking apparatus can't invade the data the data collection that there is due to mass surveillance.
For these reasons, we should end the use of mass surveillance.