We should subsidize public service broadcasters.
What we mean by public service broadcasters are any broadcasting organization that exists through public funds and exists simply to inform the public.
It isn't usually a large market company, it doesn't have entertainment value attached with it, it simply exists to inform and disseminate information to the public.
The other thing is that these subsidies wouldn't be contingent on any type of reporting or in any particular type of success of returns anything like that, so these would be unconditional subsidies to public service broadcasters.
Okay, two things in this debate.
The first is why me why money ultimately ends up corrupting other media sources, and secondly why we think we solve for that with this.
Okay so recognizing the status quo that the media is the most important means by which individuals are able to attain information.
And an informed public is essential for the functioning of a state.
In order to have any sort of rigorous elections in which politicians can be checked for things like corruption and inefficiency in order to ensure that public good is always being served in a way that ensures that it maximizes the public good in order to have an informed populace that can be aware of the variety of different things occurring in the world at any given time you need to have a media that is able to educate them.
The problem in the status quo is that most media organizations are owned by large conglomerates that have massive stakes in what the media is reporting.
What I mean by this is that when you have companies like CNN and fox and that are like groups that are owned by turner and other large broadcasting conglomerates, when you have so much money at stake in the system it means that the political ramifications of what you're reporting really matter to you.
Which means that there's a reason and an incentive to skew the information that's being presented in order to align political will of the populace with what matters to your media broadcasting organization.
Which is why we see a skew in political ideology in in media across the united states.
Which is why you have people that largely recognize that fox news is conservative and that MSNBC is incredibly liberal.
You have this skew.
The other reason why this skew exists is that money when you have a broadcasting network that exists to increase viewership and to get more and more ad revenue, you're less incentivized to report what's true and what's important because oftentimes these important things aren't that entertaining and aren't that outrageous and don't attract views.
For example the average bill that makes it through congress for a local state house simply isn't going to have massive implications that are going to get people riled up and get people to tune in to your show, which means that you're incentivized to only report the most outrageous, outlandish and most attractive news stories for audiences which doesn't mean that you're necessarily going to get an informed public, it just means that you're going to make the most money.
And this isn't because these people that run these organizations are bad, it's because that's what they're dictated to do by the free market in order to maintain their business, in order to maintain their market share, they need to maintain viewership.
We think we solved for this with public service broadcasters.
Public service broadcasters aren't invested in these big political ideas in the same way that big media corporations are.
They don't have as much of an investment on whether or not we regulate the media too a high extent or how we're going to tax the richest people in the country.
And because viewership doesn't determine their funding, but rather the subsidies would, they can report on incredibly important yet not very sexy ideas like what's going on in the next big tax proposal, or what's going on in the budget, or things like this, that don't attract viewership because they just aren't things that you can simplify into a sound bite and then have people talk about on loop for twenty four hours.
But they require real in depth analysis and understanding that maybe technical and maybe pouring boring but we think is ultimately crucial to an educated society and crucial to the functioning of our society.
And more importantly there's no trade off with giving subsidies to public service broadcasters and other media organizations.
So we don't think it's an interference in the free market we just think that by subsidizing public service broadcasters, you're likely to have a more informed electorate and an option that people can turn to that doesn't just feed them the most scandalous news but is ensuring them that they get the most important news.
And for this reason we should subsidize public service broadcasters.