We should ban fast food.
What we're talking about specifically in this debate is we're gonna focus primarily on fast food chain restaurants, things like mcdonalds, subway burger king, anything that's a chain restaurant that primarily deals in giving food either through delivery, take away or through very quickly giving food, these types of restaurants.
We're going to talk about banning those fast food restaurants and why we think those are negative to the overall health of society.
So, we wanna start by just pointing out the obvious.
That fast food chains are in general, terribly unhealthy.
Even the healthy options in restaurants like mcdonald's, burger king and subway, so as their salads that come with high amounts of sugar, really terrible dressings for you, fried chicken, and other types of things that overall, don't make the healthy options on these menus any less detrimental to your health than getting a burger, or a bacon cheeseburger, anything awful that you could get at one of these restaurants.
These things are high in fats, sugars, cholesterol, calories, and are largely consumed by children and families, which we think, only makes the impacts, the negative health impacts of these things all the worse when they're being consumed by people that are most vulnerable and are in most need of a healthy and balanced nutritional diet.
So why do we think that we should ban fast foods?
We think that people in the status quo, because of fast food, choose to opt for the quicker option rather than the time it takes to prepare food.
On average the time it is taken to prepare food in the american household has gone down dramatically over the past two or three decades, and we think that the best way to combat that is to take away this option and to force people to try and make healthier decisions.
People argue that banning fast food leads to harm such as people having to pay overall more money for food, but recognize that, healthy alternatives and healthy options and supermarkets exist and that, these options, the ability to buy a loaf of bread, the ability to buy a bag of apples, things like this, are not dramatically more expensive than going to a fast food restaurant where you already need to pay taxes, and you're already being forced to spend upwards of five or ten dollars.
We think with comparable cost you can still be able to feed yourself when you're going to these restaurants uhh when you go to a supermarket, and when people compare speed we think that most meals are not necessarily needed to be eaten in five minutes, that they don't need to be at this speed, but if they do, you can again prepare these things yourself in a healthier manner.
The comparison is you can make a sandwich in five minutes in your house, or you can go to mcdonald's and buy a cheeseburger.
We think that the sandwich you make at your health, your house, is probably going to be on balance the same cost and the same amount of time it's going to take you, but it's going to have way fewer health hazards to you in the long run.
We think that this forces people to get healthier both we both, at their homes but also away from their homes.
So if people still choose to go out to eat when you remove fast food as an option, we think you go to restaurants in which the food is better handled, the nutritional standards are higher, and you're more likely to get a more balanced meal or even if not a more balanced meal, a meal in which the storage preparation in handling the food is of a higher quality to ensure that things like illnesses and disease aren't transferred by the foods that the masses are eating.
We think that this is crucial given the obesity epidemic that exists in our world today.
Childhood obesity rates are the highest they've ever been and are only going up, same with adult obesity rates.
We think that fast food and the culture surrounding fast food, is a major reason for this issue, and we think that when you eliminate fast food as an option, it forces these trend lines to change.
It forces people to make better and healthier decisions, not just because they, not because they want to, because as we see in the past and as we've seen through these rising trend lines, people don't want to make this change,.
We think it's up to the government and it's necessary for the government in consideration with its people's health and its people's needs to change what they're able to eat, to make this change on what people are able to serve and to better educate people along with making a change that doesn't allow them to get the least healthy options available.
Given that fast food restaurants present no healthy options and no way for people to make reasonable choices about their body, represent a hugely difficult trade off when you compare price cost in time in an ever quickening world, you need to force people to make this change themselves, and that's why we would ban fast food.