We should not ban lotteries.
So we think that first and foremost in this debate we're going to explain to you on the underlying principles that justify the state and why based on those principles we cannot take this action.
So, we would say that primarily the state is a fundamentally coercive body.
It's a fundamentally coercive force.
The reason for this is that people do not have a meaningful ability to consent into the state that they are a part of, and even if they can consent into that state, they are almost never given the opportunity to meaningfully consent into the laws of that state, to choose which laws are going to govern them in a meaningful way.
Because of this we think that the way that the state principally balances this coercive capability is by maximizing freedom.
It says there's a trade off in the fact with having a state you have an ultimately coercive force that can inhibit freedom, and the way that we try to make this just state is by maximizing the freedom that individuals are going to have.
Keeping this in mind this means that there are only a limited number of instances in which you can ban something.
Because if you are to ban something, it is primarily a restriction of individual freedom which only counteracts or increases the coercive force of the state and makes it more unjust.
So when do we think that there is a justified reason to ban an individual action?
Well, firstly if that action has repercussions on those outside of those making an individual decision.
We don't think that it's necessarily the case with lotteries.
Obviously people can have gambling addictions, and people can do things that cause harm onto others in order to gamble, but we don't think that was primarily what is occurring with lotteries, and given that these are fringe cases we don't think that they should be the ways in which we legislate, in which we create these bans.
Secondly, when there's a clear public harm.
We would say that in gambling most of the harm is coming to the self.
When you choose to gamble and you're making this decision you know that these risks are very high and you know that you are likely going to lose money from the lottery.
Given that this is the case we think that almost all of the harm is going to be felt by the individual.
And finally we think when there's an asymmetry of information, when the government has special knowledge of something that means that it is impossible for people to make fully informed decisions, and in fact based on the information they have are likely to make incorrect decisions that they otherwise would be able to decide against, were they have, were they to have the full information that the government has.
That, again, is not the case when it comes to gambling.
People know in the case of lotteries that you have a much smaller chance of winning the lottery than, say, being struck by lightning.
These are things these are colloquialisms that are passed around society and these are things that people are aware of.
Even if they don't fully internalize how minuscule that chance is, they know that it is rather small and that every time they play a lottery they are almost certainly going to lose.
Given that this is the case there is no asymmetry of information to justify this type of ban.
We think the state, in being a positive actor, in being a just state, is the one that allows adults, mature individuals with knowledge of the world specialized knowledge of their circumstances and specialized knowledge of what will give them utility to make rational and reasoned decisions.
Given that people have the full information regarding lotteries taking such a rational and reasonable decision, even if that includes an immense amount of risk and almost certainly very little payoff, is not something that's going to be detrimental to them or meaningfully to the world around them or to the people around them.
It's not going to cause meaningful external harms.
Given that this is the case we think a just state would allow people to make the decision on their own whether or not to play the lottery.
For these reasons we should not ban lotteries.