We should subsidize wikipedia.
Wikipedia is a free and open encyclopedia on the internet.
It can be edited by basically anyone and, yes, there's a review process.
It's not just like those edits will stay without some sort of review by general volunteers that work with wikipedia or wikipedia staff.
Wikipedia does not cost a whole lot of money to run despite the fact that it has a huge amount of internet traffic, and it isn't actually profitable given that they don't have ads on the site.
We think that in the subsidy we should give a no strings attached full funding for wikipedia's budget, given that it's mostly just server cost and it's simply not very expensive.
Okay.
First, we want to talk about how wikipedia expands human knowledge.
Wikipedia is a truly revolutionary development in human history.
It's difficult to understate or it's difficult to overstate overstate the impact that wikipedia's had in spreading the openness of human knowledge.
It's an open source of information that's available to access for anyone that has internet access unless there's some sort of country firewall, but it's not a wikipedia firewall that's preventing you from accessing it at that point.
It's an amazing resource for people to learn about all branches of human knowledge across cultures and languages.
It's unlike any encyclopedia before in that it's not just something that was designed by experts or, you know, put together by a few like a few people or a group of people, and it's not something that's limited by like, you know, a a binding book or a a number of pages.
It's something that has articles on almost any topic, any person of note, any field of study, any type of of almost anything that you can imagine, that you would want to have some sort of formalized article about can be found on wikipedia.
It's it's a truly remarkable encyclopedia in that sense, and it's impossible to overstate how impactful that can be.
For the first time in human history, we compiled information about so many subjects in a way that it can be constantly updated to reflect new information, and it's made available for free with relatively low barriers to entry.
It is a true it's a truly immense tool for educating the public.
We think this is a clearly good use of subsidy because it's incredibly low cost relative to the to the budget of any developed country, and it's a resource that can benefit all citizens in a wide variety of ways.
It's not partisan, it's not biased, it is an open source of information created by the public, and that's the second thing we wanna talk about: communal generation of information.
This is revolutionary in a second way.
Anyone can edit wikipedia or add new entries.
For most of human history, the information that was shared and put in publicized articles and journals and and encyclopedias was dictated by close by closed-off institutions like universities, governments, professional boards, publishers, etcetera.
Wikipedia breaks down those barriers and allows a community to arise that make fact-checking possible while still allowing for a free flow of information that's created by the community of the world.
All people get to be a part of knowledge generation, not just for some side project, but for one of the most impactful and used encyclopedias on the planet at this point, certainly one of the most used reference sources in human history, and it's not being controlled by some small group of people or some elite group of people.
It's being controlled by the people of the world.
They get to dictate what knowledge is shared and what knowledge is deemed important for the first time in human history.
It returns the keys the keys and language of knowledge to the common people and allows for more information to be spread than ever before possible.
For these reasons, we should subsidize wikipedia.