We should not adopt zero tolerance policies in schools.
We think that the broad philosophy we want to put forward is that zero tolerance policies do not take into account the context of the school, nor the context of the situation.
And because of those two things, they're not only problematic, but they're also ineffective in bringing about the change in the prohibitions, that people want to see.
So, our first reason, why you should not adopt these policies, is that punishment is simply not an effective deterrent.
We think when people put zero zero tolerance policies into place, what they ultimately are looking to do is they're looking to ensure, that people don't bring those types of things into a school in the in the first place.
So, when you set up a zero tolerance policy around drugs, it's less because you want to punish people for having drugs, it's less because you're trying to target these people with like particularly harsh punishments, you can issue harsh punishments without zero tolerance policy, the point of a zero tolerance policy is to send a message, to say: these things will not be allowed in our school, that if you have these things, you're going to be immediately and vigorously punished.
The problem with that is, that we think that children, firstly that the children that are bringing these things into schools, that are bringing drugs, or weapons, or things that are similar to drugs and weapons into schools, are often those that are most disengaged with school in the first place, which means putting forward a zero tolerance policy, as a punishment, simply isn't going to be very effective in getting them to change their mind, because these are likely the people that are already most apathetic about their schooling situation.
What you're only likely to do is you're likely to drive them further away from school, because if you have a zero tolerance policy, and someone brings in drugs, or god forbid a weapon, or something like that, you're just going to push them out of school by suspending them, you make them more distant from the school, and because they've been punished, they're less receptive to go into the school, to going to counselors, to talk to them about the problems, that may have lead to them doing the thing that violated the zero tolerance policy.
So, we think you're not likely to deter the people that are bringing these types of things into schools, you're just much more likely to turn them away from the school system, and to make it more difficult for them.
And, what we think is really important to recognize is that these are simply, in the vast majority of cases, children.
These are people that are in their most formative years, that are going through incredibly rough patches in their life, and we think that it's important, that you take that into consideration as an educator in a school, that you recognize that these aren't fully formed adults, they aren't easily able to make rational decisions, and they're often doing things that are emotionally motivated.
Given that all these things are the case, we think it's important to empathize with those children, rather than lash out and punish them, and we think that you can only do that, if you take context into account.
Because, as I said, you can always issue a harsh punishment.
You don't need zero tolerance policies to give a student a harsh punishment, when they violate a rule.
What you can't do, though, with a zero tolerance policy, let's look at a specific situation, in which it's clear that a child doesn't deserve to be punished, a situation in which maybe they brought in a keychain that has a like a gun, like keychain part that would like that obviously poses no threat to an individual, it's not even threatening in kind of a visual sense, and you're not allowed to take the steps to ensure that that person isn't harmed, and there are serious implications of getting these types of suspensions, you can be kicked out of school entirely.
These are really serious flaws, that not only affect your ability to learn, but go on your record, and affect your ability to go to college, and do these types of things in the future.
Because of the stigma that is attached with punishment in the status quo, we think you should only use it when the context dictates it, and you can never take context into account with zero tolerance policies.
We think that generally children should be recognized as children, and shouldn't be punished at first sight, rather they should be welcomed into the school, they should be talked to.
Punishment should be taken when appropriate, but zero tolerance policies simply don't give the leverage and the wiggle room that allow for that to be the case.
We thank you get bad punishment, and that's why we should not adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.