We should ban abortions.
When we're talking about abortions in this debate we're going to keep out two exceptions in which we would not ban abortions but we think this is for principled reasons.
Firstly in instances of rape.
We don't think that a woman should be forced to carry the product of a crime that has been committed against her and in those instances we would allow for abortion.
And secondly, in the instance of a risk to the mother's life, in that instance we again think it is not fair to force a woman to use her own body to bring about the end of her own life and in those instances we think an unreasonable expectation is placed on the woman that would force her to carry a child to term.
But aside from those two instances we think that we should ban abortion.
So why should we care about the fetus itself and why should we think of this thing as a life?
Well, we think that the best way in which we can conceptual rights, conceptualize rights is a framework in which all human beings are included, but we think you need a principal justifications for this and the best principle justification for this is one that relies solely on the biological fact that you are a human being, that is in your DNA that you are a human.
The reason for this, as opposed to other systems, is because other systems are suspect to abuse.
This is because if you rely on someone's inclusion in the political community, then vast amounts of people can be excluded and harmed in a variety of ways, through either political or non political means.
If you use it through the ability of someone to express their preferences or the ability of someone to express human traits, then we think that you exclude large numbers of any community as well such as infants or children or coma patients who aren't fully able to express their part in the political or social community, and in those instances we think that you can get a large amount of rights violations that occur.
So we think that the best in any number of ways.
So we think that the best way to conceptualize rights is one in which all human beings are given full creed and space solely on the fact that they are a human.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that you should exclude fetuses from the definition of what it is to be human.
The reason for this is that we think we value potentiality all the time and just because someone just because that potential is in the form of the fetus we shouldn't stop following it now.
What we mean by this is when we passed laws and we set up a society, we set one up in a sense that we try to plan and protect the future of our society in the future, progeny of that society, we try to set up institutions that will last beyond our own years, we try in many instances to fight things like global warming which pose existential threats to our race and our species, and in those instances we clearly show that we value the potentiality of those people.
So we don't think that we should otherwise void that potentiality once it becomes more potential in the form of a physical embodiment that could otherwise become life if not impeded.
So why do we think further that we should give preference to the life of the fetus over the mother's autonomy and decision to make a choice?
Because we think that the fetus in this instance has no ability to advocate for itself.
It is no it has made no decision that brought it into the place in which it could be aborted or could be alive and because it is not able to fully advocate for itself, we think that we should, because we overwhelmingly value life in the status quo as a measurement of good and utility we think that we should then defer to that in this instance as well in which, because the disutility to the mother of having to carry a child may be incredibly high, we think that we should do of wide variety of things like provide better access to contraceptives and better birth control methods and try to get better education to prevent further unwanted pregnancies, but once someone has made the free choice with the knowing risk that sexual intercourse could occur with a pregnancy and that could be something that happens, we think that given that to violate that child's, to abort that pregnancy is to violate the potentiality of that child, and put out life that otherwise we would have valued, if not for that instance.
We think that because of our duty to protect our progeny, that we have fully expressed in how we construct society and because that progeny has no ability to advocate for for itself in our legal systems in our society, we should ban abortions to ensure that they are protected.