Teacher tenure reform brings more harm than good.
When we're talking about teacher tenure reform, we think we're talking about things like eliminating the length at which tenure kicks in, so making it from, say, five years at which you can receive tenure, to ten years, and shortening the amount of time that you can keep tenure for, from the rest of your life to, say, ten, five years, et cetera.
So these are the reforms that we think are problematic.
Why do we think that this is a an especially problematic problem?
We think that in the status quo, teachers in western liberal democracies are often massively undervalued for their labour, especially in places like the united states, and in public schools especially, teachers are dramatically underpaid compared to other educational sectors such as private schools, but more importantly, teachers are underpaid compared to many other possible job opportunities that individuals can take.
So why do we can the tenure is so crucial in ensuring that good teachers are in our public school systems and are allowing our children to learn in the most efficacious way possible?
So first thing is teacher recruitment.
In the status quo, teachers face low wages, they're often undervalued by society, especially by parents that have to interact with them that blame the teachers for the problems that their children have, and more importantly, you can bet unions all across the western world, especially teacher unions, are being attacked on a massive scale, which means that their ability to organize, their ability to get better benefits, their ability to increase their wages, and their ability to get protections that are necessary are now being limited because of the attack on unions that our current because of blame that people place on unions for increased taxes, etcetera etcetera.
This given that this is the case, we think that when someone enters college and someone needs to get a degree in order to become a teacher, when they're thinking about whether or not that degree is worthwhile, we think that many people simply don't see teaching as a profession that in the long run is going to be able to pay off, is going to provide enough money to make their college education worth it, and to make it so that they can live a comfortable life.
Tenure is an incentive that people can have that drives them into education.
Tenure allows for job security that simply does not exist in almost any other part of our society, in any other work force in our society.
Given that this is the case, we think that tenure can be an immense tool for motivating people to get into education, and we don't think that education is something that people simply never want to do, but we think that when people have to make real trade offs between whether or not they're going to get a higher or lower wage, this is something can meaningfully motivate them towards choosing teaching over, say, economics or business.
Secondly, teacher retention.
Because recognize, not every teacher gets tenure.
Only the best teachers get tenure.
Only the teachers that prove they can educate in a good way, and that they can keep students engaged in the classroom, are able to get tenure.
Given that this is the case, we think that these are the teachers that are most likely going to get poached by other private schools or private industry.
And again, the ability to have job security is something that is beneficial for teachers in the status quo, and is something that allows teachers to be retained, because you don't only want teachers to come in and work hard for a brief period of time, but you want teachers to breed a culture in an educational system that is one that strives for students to learn, that gets them excited about learning, and I think the way that you do this this for continuity of teachers and through ensuring that you can retain the best teachers that you have in your system.
Without having tenure, it makes it impossible to lock teachers up for a long period of time, and it makes it so that other sorts of job opportunities that present to that are presented to them, say working in a private school rather than working in a public school, that pays higher wages and gets better benefits, we think that when those things are opportunities that teachers have, you can't simply give away tenure that these teachers have just because some teachers abuse it, just because some teachers get through the cracks and get tenure when they don't deserve this.
We think the vast majority of teachers that receive tenure our worthy teachers that are working hard and we think that if you reform the tenure system and you make it less strong, you're simply not going to get as many qualified teachers applying or working in these schools it harms our student and harms everyone's future.
For those reasons, we don't think that teacher we think that teacher tenure brings more harm than it brings good.