We should not protect whistleblowers.
In this debate we're going to make two broad arguments about why whistleblowers deserve to be punished and why whistleblowers more often than not are harmful to the people that they are trying to protect via their whistleblowing and their leaking.
Alright so firstly we think that in order for a state to be just it must uphold its laws in an impartial way.
What this means is that when there are laws and when there are legal obligations of people that are inside the government who leak news out to the press or when there are people that do investigative digging and blow stories out of proportion or blow stories out for the media in a way that violates laws we think that it is only fair that a just state punishes those people.
Whistleblowers, in most instances, have clearly violated the law.
They do so and they release information and they do so in a manner that is unilaterally decided by them.
They decide for themselves what information should be out there, what information that the government is trying to keep private should be put into the public light.
In doing this they knowingly take on a risk that is associated with leaking.
And we think this justifies the punishment itself.
If you are a government employee and you're going to be a whistleblower like edward snowden put information out there that you are legally obligated not to share with the public we think that you are aware of the fact that you are in a legally you are making a legal violation you do so and you take these actions knowing the risk you bring on and therefore if enough evidence can be accumulated to convict this person we think they should be treated just as anyone else would who committed a crime.
It is only fair to those that are caught and convicted of other crimes that when people put these ideas forward, even if there is political popularity for whistleblowers like edward snowden, that they're treated just like any other citizen would be and that they are not given extra special treatment and extra latitude in making these types of decisions when they knowingly broke the law.
To not punish also opens the door to more people making these types of unilateral decisions, which is bad for our second large point.
That leaking is usually harmful.
When information information often goes into the hands of people that don't know how to handle sensitive information very well.
For example, a news organization getting the names of people who are in protective custody that have to do with a major case.
Furthermore, these organizations additionally don't usually have the full knowledge of the situation to make decisions about what information they can morally and ethically put out there.
And when they have this information sitting on their laps, they're more likely to go to defer to the option that gets those headlines, that captures people's attention, and that puts that information out there even if it puts people at risk and this happens all the time with leaks.
When people put out information of people that are in protective custody or people that have violated the law in some in some way but are being protected by the government, these people are often injured or killed as forms of retaliation when that information is made public.
There's also a global harm when private information gets out to allies, like that we're spying on germany, or to less than allies, like when we say like when it's put out there that the united states is spying on china.
Regardless of whether it's allies or enemies, this information is bad because it makes the state look vulnerable on the international stage.
It harms their international standing and it makes it less capable for states like the united states and pretty much every developed state that has a standardized spying platform and a central intelligence agency and bureaucracy that surrounds it that are doing these types of things, it makes it more likely that these states are less likely it makes it more likely that these states won't be able to cooperate moving forward which we think is bad in times of say tension between these states and times in which a state needs some sort of financial or military backing all these instances it makes cooperation less likely which we think is harmful to the global order and on top of it all, these people took the risk knowing they were violating the law and should not be let should not be allowed to simply ignore that that fact.
For these reasons we should not protect whistleblowers.