We should abolish personality tests.
So there are a wide array of personality tests that currently exist on the market, so we're just going to create a model to make it clear what we're talking about.
We're not talking about like buzzfeed posting a personality test that someone will take in a two minute period and then move on with their life to find out which disney character they're most like.
We're talking about personality tests that are instituted by either schools or businesses to try and see what someone's career aptitude might be or to see whether or not someone's personality may fit into your corporate culture.
We would ban the use of personality tests for these types of purposes and in any sort of official structure, any sort of long of lengthy personality tests, so like the myers briggs test we would eliminate that.
And in the status quo we see a problem of two things.
Either these tests are immensely broad, which means they don't have any sort of predictive power or they have a problem of confirmation bias, in which people may see them as personally successful, may see their personality reflected in a myers briggs test.
But that's because they see a confirmation of what they already believe about themselves or they confirm these things in their everyday life.
But we think the larger problem of all of these things is that people simply cannot be boiled down to their separate aspects of their personality.
We think that individuals are far too complex as as human beings and that the interactions between a variety of different personality aspects can lead to individuals being immensely different from each other, even if they have the same myers briggs personality type or something like this.
And we think even if it was the case that these personality tests were reflective of one's personality, if you could accurately boil down someone's personality into one personality test, we think the problem is that personality is something that's fluid.
It's something that changes over one's life and in one's environment.
For example, people often believe that one needs to have a certain personality trait to be a leader, but they need to be an extrovert, but what's been found in studies is that when individuals are given the opportunity to be a leader, they adapt to those types of traits.
See bill gates who's become a leader on the global stage, but started as an introverted individual who wasn't comfortable speaking in front of large groups of people.
We think that personality is very highly likely to fluctuate over one's life and therefore taking personality tests seriously and taking the results of these things seriously can have really bad ramifications.
For example, certain businesses use personality tests in order to judge potential employees.
But we think that firstly, personal references are much more likely to be personal and more in depth and give you a better understanding of who an individual is, secondly, as I already said, environment matters.
Which means denying someone a job opportunity simply because their personality in the past isn't what you're looking for, doesn't mean that they can't evolve to fill your work space.
And thirdly, mood has and immense impact on personality tests and the mood that you're in when you're taking a personality test, what you're thinking about in the moment when you're taking the personality test, can have a really drastic impact on who you on on what these tests say about you, what they think you are.
And we think that there is a massive problem in the status quo, people taking these things too seriously which can lead to one, an internal crisis of identity in which people believe that these tests have validity and that they have a misunderstanding of who they are fundamentally when they otherwise wouldn't have this sort of crisis of self identity, and externally, we think that there are mistreatments of individuals insofar as people have a certain expectation based on a boiled down personality type, which simply is not an accurate reflection of the person they're interacting with as a human being.
We think that personality tests simply miss the boat and don't accurately represent what a human being is and they don't accurately represent how an environment plays a role in personality.
And for these reasons we should abolish personality tests.