We should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.
In this round we're going to take a principled stance that minors are unable in a very fundamental way to internalize the long-term repercussions of their actions.
That minors are incredibly vulnerable to the mistakes of their past and that fundamentally the government should check for these for these poor decision making skills.
So first, let's talk about a lack of knowledge that minors have.
Children simply lack the life experience minors lack of life experience to actually understand and internalize the long-term outcomes of their harm and when it comes to piercing and tattoos these are long-term commitments.
Yes, you can get rid of these things if you really want to but those are costly and painful procedures and for the most part these are permanent effects on one's body.
You can't internalize the length and understand the permanence of something going to be on your body forever when you've barely lived.
If you're a sixteen-year-old you're going to have that type two way longer than the amount of time that you've been alive in the world already and we don't think that children can meaningfully consent to those long-term impacts.
Their future selves cannot meaningfully consent to those impacts if they can't internalize what those impacts are going to mean.
There's also a social stigma that exists around piercings and tattoos that need to be taken into consideration.
Children oftentimes don't understand the stigma because they're not in an adult world in which they interact and they see the discretions that go against people that have piercings and tattoos.
They don't see the stigma in their daily life because these things are cool an edgy and they seem like things that people would want to have but they can prevent you from getting a job.
They can prevent you from getting into a university.
Having a piercing or a tattoo can have a real implication on your long-term life prospects.
Things that you likely can't even understand are going to be impacted in the future because you haven't been placed in a situation to even know what the future holds for you yet.
Adults are just better able to understand what those negative impacts are because one, they've seen the stigmas more likely and two, they have a better sense of their future, of what their future holds and so people that are adults have a better understanding that maybe I'm going to enter a job where having a piercing is going to be problematic for my future, it's going to undermine my credibility, do all these types of things that you simply don't know about as a minor.
Many people regret the way they behave as a minor.
Most people don't think that the way they behaved as a teenager or the decisions they made were particularly wise or things that they would go back and do again.
We think it's in the best interest of the future person to prevent bad decisions and that's what the government is doing here.
Secondarily, there's no there's no rights restriction going on, so we don't think that this is violative of anything that minors have due to them.
There's no right to get a tattoo or a piercing.
Yes, you have a right to your bodily autonomy but you don't have a right to do anything you want your body.
That's why we restrict things like drug usage.
That's why we criminalize things like suicide.
There are limits to what you can do with your bodily autonomy if it's going to have a detrimental impact on you.
If you want to do this thing so badly you can still do it as well.
It's not like we're banning piercings and tattoos entirely.
We're just saying that if you're a sixteen-year-old that wants to get a tattoo of your favorite band, well you have to wait a couple of years to really make sure that you want that tattoo before you go ahead and permanently put ink on your body that's going to impact you for the rest of your life.
We think the government is entirely within its rights to act in these situations.
We don't think it's a very important or a meaningful detrimental impact on a minor's life that they have to wait until adulthood in order to make this decision and in fact we think their future selves are going to thank us.
For these reasons, we should ban piercings and tattoos for minors.