We should not ban abortions.
So before we start this debate, we want to just do some defining because in the status quo, abortions are banned after a certain point based on the standard of viability: that removed from the womb, the child could survive on its own or with some assistance from like doctors and whatnot.
We think that this is a perfectly good standard and a better standard than potentiality, because potentiality is just a long, slippery slope into infinity of which you can't in which any sperm in one's body or any eggs in one's body ultimately could become a child, and if you either have your period or masturbate or don't use those things in the perfect way, you are essentially killing a child because they otherwise could have gone on to become a person.
That is the rationality underlying potentiality.
That is an ad infinitum flaw that we think is unaccceptable.
So, in this round, we're using viability.
So given that that's the case, why should we not ban abortions?
Two big reasons: the first is that it would be a horribly unjust ban.
We think that something like an abortion, something like how one's body is being used, is one of the most personal things that a person can have, that how I choose or how any woman chooses to use their body or what to do with their body should be up to them, and that shackling them with a child for nine months that they have to carry and feed and they have to dramatically change their life over in order to bring into the world, even when that child is not viable outside in the world, if they were just left out in, you know, if they were left out to be adopted or whatever as a nine-month-old or as a nine-week-old fetus, they would not survive.
So it is unclear why this person has the duty to bring this person fully to the point of viability.
We think that that is corrupt and unjust.
We also think that this just is a massive impediment on one's freedom, that it's government making a choice for you without your consent in any meaningful way.
It's the government dictating morals onto you in a way that you never consented to, which we think is something that's clearly unjust.
And banning abortions doesn't do anything to prevent a direct third-party harm.
As I said, the standard that we should be using, the rational standard, is viability and not potentiality.
And given under that standard, this is not a living creature that can be subjected to harm if you choose to have an abortion prior to the point of viability.
Secondly, there's none there's no sort of asymmetry of information that causes direct harm onto the person.
Again, this is something that is just nonsensical, and there's no overwhelming good to the community, as I'm about to explain.
We actually think that there's massive utility harms if you ban abortions.
First, recognize that there are hundreds of thousands of abortions in america every year.
The scale of this ban would be huge.
If it were to be effective, there would be a massive increase in the percentage of people born every year because as I said, hundreds of thousands abortions occur every year.
But in reality, you're not going to prevent all of those abortions.
You're going to create a huge black market for abortions, a black market that already exists in many states in the united states where abortions are incredibly restricted.
And these are black markets that actually cause direct harm, because they're done in someone's basement, they're done in the backyard of someone's home.
They're done by someone that lost their medical license.
They're done by someone that is not qualified to give an abortion to someone, and it creates huge risks on a woman's life and on a woman's potential to have a child in the future when you have a hack job abortion in someone's basement.
And these are things that will spread up because people do not want to be don't want to be stuck with the incredible medical costs of bringing a child to term and the potential medical costs or just life cost of having to take care of that child moving into the future.
Maybe you think that abortion is wrong morally, but there's no reason that the government should be able to dictate what those morals are going to be.
If we allow the government to start dictating our morals in instances like this, then we run a very slippery slope where the government gets to decide ultimately what is right and what is wrong, and we think that is a scary world to live in.
For these reasons, we should not ban abortions.