We should adopt mobile payments.
So, in the status quo, mobile payments have been on the rise, with the increasing technologies that allow for people to transfer funds directly from one individual to a next or directly to a business, without using middle operators, things like credit cards or other types of transfers.
We think that what we mean, generally, when we say individuals or when we say we should adopt mobile payments is that, firstly, businesses should open themselves up to more mobile payment opportunities to provide platforms for consumers so that they can pay directly into a corporation without having to pay through things like a credit card or through things like direct cash.
And we think that individuals should adopt platforms that allow for these things, things like venmo and other type of mobile payment platforms.
We think that these are preferable.
So, why do we think mobile payments are generally good?
Well, firstly, there's a sign that when businesses are are more open to mobile payments, they're generally more innovative.
They're more versatile and they're more open for consumers to connect with them.
They're more convenient for consumers and because of this, there are a few benefits.
Firstly, it cuts down on middle costs which means that these businesses have a higher profit margin, ultimately.
This is preferable for both them and for the consumer.
It also ensures that consumers have a variety of options and ways that they can pay for these types of businesses and pay for these products, and it removes the need for things like cash on hand and other things like that.
Secondly, it's it's much more beneficial for, especially in developing nations, people that don't have banks to have access to mobile payment plans.
The reason for this is that huge portions of the developing world are left without banks and without without means of storing their funds, in the status quo.
Mobile payments allow for options that change that.
Paying through things like credit and peer-to-peer transfers that allow for individuals to accumulate credit without having to accumulate cash, in particular, and having to store that cash in some way is incredibly beneficial for these people in developing nations that don't have access to these types of things.
We think that it's good for these people and it allows for more interconnectivity and more investment into the developing world, because it creates a type of infrastructure that you don't have in the status quo because of the lack of banks and the lack of other types of financial stability.
It allows for financial growth without these types of industries having to take hold.
We also think that it's simply more secure, and it's cheaper to track funds than continuously to print money.
So we think that if you have a system in which there are mostly mobile payments, and you can not print money as often and you can not have to track the printing of money, we think that you have, firstly, more potential for for a centralized security system and a way in which you're more able to keep track of one type of security that you use for your one payment system rather than having to keep track of ensuring that your credit cards, your debit cards or your cash isn't being stolen from you.
We think that it's easier to have centralized security for this type of thing, especially because encryption makes it makes it the case that these are often incredibly safe outlets.
Things like venmo are very safe because of the encryption methods they use.
We also think, finally, that commerce is simply shifting online.
We think that recognizing that shift towards online and e-commerce, rather than in-person commerce, is best met when you adopt mobile mobile payments in bulk.
If you make them something that is centralized and normalized within society, we think that it mainstreams payment we think it mainstreams payment options.
We think it's a it makes it more likely for people to be able to connect with businesses.
We think it's more easy for businesses in the developing world to directly interact with outside investors and things like that, and to interact in an environment without banks.
For all of those reasons, we say that we should adopt mobile payments.