We should not lower the age of consent.
So, we think that in this debate, while the line at which you draw the age of consent, we recognize, is arbitrary, we think that this is a debate about generally whether it is preferable to have a higher age of consent or a lower age of consent.
So we're going to talk about the broad benefits of having a higher age of consent.
We would say that this age of consent is probably somewhere around eighteen, this tends to be the standard around most of the developed world, in some places it is lower, in very few places this is it is higher, so we would say that eighteen is on the high end, and if if we were to force to be draw a line to draw a line, we think that is the one that we would draw.
Okay.
So, what's important to recognize is that in addition to not lowering the age of consent, you can also create an age of consent that is high but isn't done in a poor or callous fashion.
What we mean by this is we don't think there's any reason to prosecute, say, a sixteen year old if they're having sex with their fifteen year old significant other or something like that, like these close age ranges.
We think that there can be grace periods for relationships between individuals that are of similar ages, maybe around two years.
We think that this can ensure that you aren't punishing callous individuals that are abusing those that are younger, and you're allowing people to have meaningful sexual relationships and learn about their sexual selves, and mature in a sexual manner.
Okay.
So that's what we're actually going to talk about for the rest of this debate, is about sexual maturity and why we think you have better sexual maturity if you have a higher age of consent.
So we think that in the status quo, society often undervalues the importance of sex, and the impact of that type of intimacy with a partner.
We think that in our modern society, people are often exposed to immense amounts of pressure to be sexually active, and this is most true at these young ages that we're talking about.
In environments such as high schools, we think that there is an immense amount of pressure to be sexually active, to understand yourself in a sexual way, and this pushes people into having relationships that they otherwise wouldn't be likely to have, because they feel that type of pressure.
We think that by having a higher age of consent you make it less likely that people are going to take these types of actions, because there could be legal repercussions to it.
But we think in the worst scenarios, in which older individuals are likely to abuse these younger individuals, or take advantage of the fact that there is such pressure on these younger individuals to be sexually active, to be sexually involved, we think that you make it more likely that these instances don't occur, in which older people can prey on younger individuals and do so without any sort of repercussions.
We don't think that people should be taken advantage of simply because of the pressure that exists in our modern society to have sex, and we think that having a higher age of consent makes it less likely that these things are going to occur.
The other thing that a higher age of consent does is that it makes people, it increases the amount of time before someone is likely to become sexually active, because there are repercussions to those sexual acts, and therefore it gives more time for them to learn about things such a safe sex and STDs.
And these are things that a large amount of people are simply underinformed about.
Look at places that are even developed country such as the united states there are huge parts of the united states that don't understand safe sex, that don't have adequate sexual education, that don't understand how to adequately defend yourself against STDs.
Giving people an additional an additional amount of years to learn about this information, to do their own investigation into their sexual while they mature sexually, to do this type of investigation, to learn how to have safe sex, we think that extending the amount of time between when people become sexually mature and the time in which they actually become sexually active, in which they can consent to having sexual intercourse, we think extending that amount of period makes it more likely that they do their own investigation, their own research to ensure that when they end up having sex, they're doing it in an informed way, they're doing it in a truly consensual way, and they're doing it in a way that minimizes the risk of long term harm, such as unwanted pregnancy and STDs.
For these reasons, we should not lower the age of consent.