We should further exploit geothermal energy.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it's important to start utilizing geothermal energy to its fullest potential.
The first argument we're going to make and we think the most important, is about global warming.
We think that it is an undeniable fact at this point that there is significantly that there is significant man caused impact in increase in temperature that has led to global warming and widespread environmental change.
We think that global warming is probably almost certainly the biggest threat that humanity will face in the next one hundred years.
So let's explain why that's the case.
First, global warming and the melting of ice caps leads to rising sea levels which are likely to destroy many economic hubs in cities.
The reason for this and the reason that this is particularly detrimental is that these hubs in these cities because of historical benefits of being built on water, were primarily built on water.
The largest cities in the world are not inland cities which means that our economic hubs are the population centers of our planet are the ones that are most are most at impact due to the increase in global warming, due to the damage in global warming which means not only is this going to cause massive harm to lives and people in these cities, but it's going to cause massive harms to our economies.
It's going to cost immense amounts of upkeep in order to either build dams or to move people inland.
All this is incredibly detrimental and all could have been avoided if we had switched and turned our and had changed our behavior.
There's also simply going to be more extreme weather events.
We've seen this happening in the last number of years and when these things occur, real damage happens.
Look at the hurricane season that swept across the united states and the and the and surrounding islands south of the united states in the caribbean.
These are areas that were dramatically impacted by hurricanes and storms and those storms are only going to get more frequent and worse, costing thousands of lives and billions of dollars in damage every year.
There's also going to be a lack of food and clean water due to the changing seasons that we're going to see and the changing seasonal behavior which means crop yields are less reliable and the greater deterioration of our fresh water supply from rising temperatures and we are rapidly approaching a tipping point of no return.
Something that we need to care about first and foremost right now, is changing our behaviors because we only have one planet and our own survival relies on changing and moving away from fossil fuels and one of the great ways of doing that is through geothermal energy.
It is an alternative and a viable alternative for making energy in many areas and we think that because there are no emissions from this, because there is no fossil fuels that are and carbon dioxide emissions that are coming in this, this is a great resource that we can use to shift away from our current trajectory of global warming.
Even if you don't care about global warming though, which you absolutely should, we think it is more economically utile to exploit geothermal energy than not to.
It's comparatively more there's comparatively more economic potential in geothermal energy than exist in fossil fuels.
Many fossil fuel jobs in the status quo are low paying and easily replaced labor and there's little potential for technological development in things like drilling because it's already advanced so much over the last century that we think it's unlikely that it's going to advance much further which means there's fewer high paying roles that are available.
But the new technology of geothermal energy requires new ideas, developments in manual labor.
It opens a large new sector of the economy that leads to more growth with likely little trade off for our existing economic situation.
In general, we would rather have a more expansive energy economy and even if there are loss of jobs in fossil fuels one, fossil fuels is going to need to die if we're going to prevent the harms of global warming and two, we think that better jobs will replace them in the geothermal energy sector.
For these reasons, we should further exploit geothermal energy.