We should not subsidize wikipedia.
In this round, we're going to make two broad arguments about why it's simply unnecessary and unjust to subsidize wikipedia.
The first is that there are simply many avenues of funding that exist, meaning that the subsidy really isn't necessary if wikipedia was seriously in need of funding, and the second is that this doesn't fulfill any sort of necessary public good and is not a good use of that fungible resource that is a subsidy.
So, first, let's talk about that funding.
Wikipedia in the status quo doesnt have advertisements on its pages.
It doesn't have any sort of a paywall.
It doesn't have any sort of revenue generation besides people donating to wikipedia out of the goodness of their heart.
And through that, wikipedia's been able to run for a decade.
Wikipedia has been able to be one of the largest websites on the internet, one of the most trafficked websites on the internet.
It has been able to grow exponentially.
We simply do not think that wikipedia is in need of the subsidy given that those donations still come in, and those donations come in fairly steadily.
People value people who value wikipedia are able to give their funds to wikipedia in a way that makes it sustainable.
But say that these funds started to run dry, that the donations weren't large enough.
Well, there are many institutions that give grants because wikipedia is an open source of knowledge.
It's an open source of information, and there are many intellectual institutions, there are many universities that give grants to these types of that give grants to these types of situations, situations like wikipedia, when you allow further spread of public knowledge.
Again, not something that requires a subsidy because there's this backup.
But even if that isn't the case, you could simply start running advertisements on wikipedia.
Wikipedia reaches millions and millions of people every month.
It has a huge audience that it can draw from to bring in advertising revenue.
If wikipedia even just placed one advertisement on every page on its site or even just one advertisement on the top ten most the top ten percent most visited pages on their site, we think wikipedia would almost certainly have enough funding to last for its entire existence.
It's just so popular, and it has very little upkeep cost because it doesn't have a paid staff, it doesn't have a huge amount of capital that goes into it.
It's simply like server costs at this point.
Finally, even even if that didn't work, even if advertising wasn't enough, you could still have a small fee for access, something like fifty fifty cents for a yearly subscription to wikipedia, where you could get the same wikipedia you've always loved and you would only have to pay fifty cents.
Yes, some people would be shut out of wikipedia.
We think the vast majority of people who actually use wikipedia would be willing to pay fifty cents for a whole year to be able to use it.
And again, because of how many people use wikipedia, this would almost be certainly enough to fund it.
The free market allows wikipedia to continue to flourish.
This subsidy is simply unnecessary.
Finally, we don't think the subsidy fulfills a necessary public good.
Given that subsidies are composed of tax money that come from the pockets of individuals, we think that that money should be reinvested into the community in a way that helps all.
But because we've already explained people that like wikipedia are always going to get wikipedia, this only helps that select group of people, and it doesn't really provide them any sort of benefit.
Money is a fungible resource and if you spend it on wikipedia, that is money that's deterred from other areas that could use it better.
Areas like education, infrastructure, even defense, all these things are a better area that you could put this money into than subsidizing a behemoth like wikipedia that is able to fund itself.
Because of this, we should not subsidize wikipedia.