Assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.
When we're talking about assisted suicide we think we're primarily talking about physician assisted suicide in which someone who is in intensive care or oftentimes are terminally ill are allowed to die by the physician that is with them, or are assisted in dying by being taken off life support, or doing a certain drug, a number of ways that this can happen.
So two reasons why we think that physician assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.
Firstly because life is sacred and that's a starting point that we cannot abandon, and secondly because ey this allowing this to be a legal practice pressures people into committing suicide.
So firstly on life.
Life is the basic the right to life is the basic foundational principle on which every other law, every other practice in our society is founded on.
The the idea that that life is sacred and that a right to life is irrevocable is necessary in order for the basic foundational principles of democracy of a liberal system to exist.
For rights to speech to be justified for rights for autonomy, freedom, all these things are an expression of that right to life that we hold at the very foundation of our participation in society.
From this we think that you simply cannot opt out of that system of rights.
The reason for this is that being a part of that rights framework is what distinguishes you as a human being.
It's what allows you to be an agent and it's what makes you a part of the community.
And we don't think that you're able to choose to nullify your participation in that community er in that system.
For example we don't think that we would allow people to contract into a system of slavery in which they give up their ability to live freely and pursue the goals that they choose or to work for who they choose to work for because it would demean their human nature or demean who they are and how they exist fundamentally as a human.
And we don't think that this is something that society should endorse by allowing to be legal.
So we think that furthermore we think that this is something that someone simply cannot turn back from.
That even if they are fully aware of what they're doing, there is no way to fully contemplate what they're doing and from that we think that you cannot allow this to be a legal practice or a legal thing to do because there's no way to revoke the harm that you're doing upon yourself by taking your own life.
So secondly, how we think people may be pressured into committing suicide because of this.
Recognize the situation that these terminally ill patients are in.
They're often being cared for and paid for by their family, undergoing immensely costly medical expenses in a situation in which there doesn't seem to be any sort of hope at the end of the tunnel.
In these situations people can often feel pressured by their family, whether it's directly or indirectly or whether it's intended or not, about the harm or the cost that they are causing the family while they just slowly are in their hospital hoping for some sort of cure that isn't going to come.
In that instance people can feel incredibly demoralized, incredibly harmed.
But even in those instances we wouldn't say that their life has no purpose.
We wouldn't say that they can't gain utility in their place in the world and we wouldn't say that because their life costs more money on to another person that that life still isn't worth while and still isn't invalid.
Given that this is the case and that people may feel pressured into committing suicide where even if they don't have much life left, they still have valuable life ahead, they still have an economy of life that they can spend on being able to gain things that they may want enable to further their ends or to gain joy in a way.
We don't think that people that there should be a legal thing that is able to happen and that assisted suicide should be a criminal offense in order to prevent these types of pressures from overcoming an individual and to ensure that life at the very foundation of our society is accepted as sacred and protected.
And for this reason assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.