We should abolish no-knock warrants.
So when we say abolish, we would say that the state should never issue warrants that allow officers to enter a premises or enter a a space, without at least first alerting the people that they're coming in, getting permission or knocking on the door, trying to get permission to enter the to enter a facility peacefully.
Okay.
Two main points of constructive.
The first is that we would say that no-knock warrants violate the premise of presumption of innocence.
So we think that when you issue a no-knock warrant, there's an assumption in issuing such a warrant that firstly, the person that you're issuing it towards is dangerous, secondly, that the person is guilty, but if you don't get them in your confines quickly enough or if you don't get them with the massive amount of data that they may have at their disposal, that you won't be able to convict them.
This, firstly, is a violation of the individual's right to not give up information on themselves which we think is violated when people don't have the forewarning that individuals or that officers are going to break into their house.
But secondly, when you allow officers to break into a house with this assumption that individuals are dangerous, it ultimately represents a skew within the legal system that says that individuals that intersect with the legal system are ultimately guilty, and that there is a desire that these people and up with guilty because of the investment the state puts into the legal system.
We think that you can oftentimes or almost always get the information that you otherwise would have been able to by first knocking on the door.
Recognize that when you have a normal warrant, you can still get into the into the premises if the individual is at home or anything like this.
You just first have to notify them that you're about to enter.
This is the distinction, and we think that this distinction is important in preventing tragedies from occurring.
So recognize secondly, our second major point of constructive is that in the status quo, these things are used in incredibly disparaging ways toward already disenfranchised groups.
So, what oftentimes is the case is that these warrants are issued against minority groups and other types of situations in which there is an assumption ingrained in the legal system that these groups are guilty.
And what oftentimes or what occasionally is the case is that police officers will break into a home because of bad information or a bad lead that allows them to think that these people are dangerous criminals, when really it's just a family living in a house.
And they break in with with weaponry and with noise and causing fear within a community that their house can be invaded.
It's a signal from the government that any sort of home in these communities, at any time, can be invaded and broken into without just cause or without even a warning.
We think that this is problematic because it creates a massive divide between these communities and the state that is supposed to represent them.
We think that a no-knock warrant only serves to put fear into these communities in actuality, that that is the purpose it serves, aside from the principal purposes that defenders of this warrant may say.
So we think that given that the actual stance on the ground is that these warrants are used to create fear within these communities, this also oftentimes leads people to being in the wrong homes.
And what happens when people enter the wrong homes with a lot of weapons is that sometimes there is assumptions that people are guilty, and people can be seriously harmed because of bad information, because officers chose to barge into a home rather than trying to do the due diligence of treating the potential offender as a human being that can be interacted with in respectful manner.
We think that the criminal justice system already puts aside the rights of the defendant, the rights of the accused far more often than is worthwhile, far more often than is than is allowable within our rights framework.
We think that no-knock warrants are only extensions of that, and we think that they're used dramatically and disproportionately against marginalized groups.
Because of the bad signal it sends and the assumption of guilt that come with them, we should abolish no-knock warrants.