We should not tax plastic bags.
So, in this debate, we're going to make two broad arguments about what this tax would do.
First, we're going to say that this is an unjust and flat tax, and secondly, that it wouldn't be effective in reducing the use of plastic bags, and we think that that is the primary purpose of this bag task this bag tax.
We'll talk about that a little later.
So, first, why is this an unjust tax?
We think that this tax necessarily is going to be a flat tax because when you set a tax on something like a plastic bag, you're not able to do it based on any sort of progressive nature, like the income of someone at the grocery store buying the the plastic bag.
You're just you're just putting a flat tax rate on every individual bag.
This is usually something like ten cents or something like that.
So this is necessarily a flat tax.
So, by definition, we think that flat taxes are necessarily regressive.
Why is this the case?
The reason for this is that taxes of equal cost have disparate impact on people of different income levels.
If you have less income, the tax takes a larger portion of your overall earnings.
Additionally, people of lower income levels already have less disposable income, that is, income that isn't already set aside for essentials like food, rent, utilities, things like that.
And this adds additional weight to their plight, because you're already putting a tax on you're putting an additional tax on people that already can't afford their current living situation in many cases.
We think that government taxes should be based on equal impact, because when you have taxes that are progressive in nature, you actually ensuring that you have an equivalent impact on the people that you're taxing rather than simply an equal nominal tax that people are paying, but it's simply not feasible to tax people a different rate for plastic bags.
This is something that can never be implemented, and therefore this tax is always going to be a flat tax.
We think that it's additionally likely that the tax is largely going to be against those who simply can't afford these reusable bags, who have the lowest amount of disposable income, and the tax is going to be even more impactful and harmful on those people.
So, secondly, why do we think it's not effective in reducing use?
So, we think that the general reason that you'd want to tax plastic bags is so that people switch to reusable bags and there isn't so much plastic pollution , which is the case in the status quo.
But we think that people know about the the environmental impacts of this type of pollution in high levels of plastic use.
We think that this is something that is regularly publicized in that in twenty seventeen, even if you disagree with the concept of global warming, people are still aware of the arguments that exist for it.
Given that they're aware of the harms of their act, we think there are three groups of people that don't currently use plastic bags, and they're not going to switch.
First, you have lazy people.
We think that for these people, the light tax is unlikely to have a large impact, because they simply can afford to pay that tax and therefore, yes, you're generating some new revenue for the state, but it doesn't actually solve the problem of having lots of plastic bags in the environment harming animals, polluting the environment, etcetera.
Second group is people that are that are simply poor, that can't afford these things.
Given that they can't that they can't have this expense, they either need to buy reusable bags or pay this tax, and both of those put increased costs on these people.
While it might be marginal in it might be marginal in the sense for those that people can afford these things, if you're if you're someone that simply has zero disposable income, that's a cost you weren't prepared to pay, and it harms you.
Finally, there are many people that treat global warming and environmental harm as a political issue.
Many conservative people in the united states, for example, side against the environment, based on totally political principles.
And those people that view using plastic bags as a principled stance against the lies of global warming and environmental harm, we don't think that those people are going to be dissuaded by this tax either.
Given that that is the case, yes, you're likely to get some people switch out of using plastic bags, but we don't think it's a large impact.
And given that the tax is going to be regressive and therefore harmful, we should not tax plastic bags.