We should not subsidize public service broadcasters.
We think that in today's age people get news from a wide variety of sources.
In older times, in the maybe fifty years in the past, sixty, seventy years in the past, public service broadcasters were crucial because they ensured that all people could get access to information, all people could get access to news in a reliable way.
In today's day not only is it the case that people do not consume public service TV, but it is also not the case that they need it.
That this is a crucial public good.
And for this reason we should not subsidize public service broadcasters.
So on this debate we're gonna talk firstly about why these things are outdated, and secondly why, based on the nature of taxation, the first point means that you cannot justifiably subsidize these services.
So, why don't people need these services anymore?
Well, it's simply the case that there is more available news outlets for people today than there were when public service broadcasting was at its peak.
People are able to get their news from a variety of sources, both television and internet and prints, all of these sources, and there's a wide variety of angles from which they can get their news.
But it's not just the case that there's this availability of these types of news outlets, it's that these are flashier news outlets, they have more funding, they can back bigger projects, things that people are more likely to be drawn to, investigative journalism, people simply do not turn to public service television in the same way that they did in the past.
This means that if you were to subsidize public service broadcasting you get a lower return for your investment into this service than you otherwise would have in the time at which it was a more relevant service.
We think another reason why people don't turn to public service broadcasting is that there's an immense amount of distrust of public services and the funding in news media created in substantial part due to the government.
Through government action.
We think that subsidizing public service broadcasting further isn't going to make people want to turn to it anymore, it isn't going to make people any more trusting, it only makes people see it as more news media being controlled by an establishment, being controlled by the government, and we don't think that this is a very worthwhile use of government fungible amounts of money.
And of course because this is fungible you need to keep in mind that these subsidies could go to any other number of things that are currently being underserved.
Whether it's infrastructure spending or green tax subsidies, all these things are more beneficial and have more of a pressing need than public service broadcasting.
So next we want to talk about kind of the principal of taxation and why you ought not principally do this.
So, we think that the state is fundamentally coercive.
People cannot consent into the state in a meaningful way because they are either born there and kind of just stranded there or they are forced to move there due to circumstances in a past life that we're not entirely within their control, and it's kind of the nature of the state that this is a fundamentally coercive body.
The way that the state becomes justified then is by providing services that most people either need or most people would utilize.
You need to create a system of spending and taxation that does what most people would be willing to consent into if a system of consent were possible, otherwise you're using the coercive apparatus of the state and the ability of the state to take money from the people through taxation, which is essentially theft of money that has been earned through one's own labor, and using it for goods that they otherwise would not have wanted.
Given that I already explained why public service broadcasters fall into this category of things that people do not need nor things that people want, we think that it is essentially theft to take the money of taxpayers and put it into this service.
We don't think people would consent to this if they had the case and because of that we should not subsidize public service broadcasters.