We should abolish intelligence tests.
So in this debate we're gonna make two two main arguments.
The first is that intelligence, as quantified by these tests, is a bad concept a flawed concept that doesn't actually reveal any information, and the second is that these tests are generally used for bad purposes.
So on the concept of intelligence: intelligence tests are based on this idea that there are some mental quality that is all encompassing, that can be back to be qualified as well, as to how smart you are.
That this idea of being smart, of being intelligent, is a is a one type of thing.
It's not a multitude of things, but rather it is one thing that we can quantify and from that quantification we can make judgment calls and use that data for further for further purposes.
We think that intelligence in reality comes in so many different forms and that people can vary in what types of intelligence they excel in.
For example, there are some people that have quantitative intelligence, which is often what these intelligence tests are trying to find.
The type of intelligence that allows you to do basic mathematics, to understand spatial reasoning, to do the things that engineers and physicists and these types of people are able to do.
There's also though emotional intelligence.
The understanding of not only your own emotions but those around you, and how to react to those emotions in such a way to make people feel better.
To play off those emotions in a way that benefits you.
There's also social intelligence.
The type of intelligence that understands your community and your immediate social situation.
Intelligence tests can really distill only one type of intelligence.
This quantitative intelligence.
And even then they only do it in, such a in, they can only do so so well.
There are many other longitudinal ways of measuring this type of quantitative intelligence that we think are even preferable to intelligence tests if you want to get this type of intelligence.
But we don't actually think you get any useful information from these tests.
However because because it tries to quantify something like intelligence in a poor manner that can't actually be quantified in a one catch all term of intelligence.
What we do think though is it leads to people making misinformed choices when doing things like hiring a new employee, like choosing a career or a college path because an intelligence test told you you would be best suited for one thing, or choosing which which classes to take in school, and these types of intelligence tests can affect someone at any stage in their life.
So what of those additional bad purposes that we were talking about that we think intelligence tests are used for?
As we've shown they simply don't work to divine any useful information.
And there are harms that arise from these tests.
Those who don't perform well simply feel belittled.
They feel lesser than because they're stupid or unintelligent.
And it turns into a self fulfilling prophecy, where those people under perform because they set low expectations for themselves.
If you are told in a quantitative way that you are less smart, less mentally capable than those around you, this tells you that there's some sort of barrier that you cannot overcome.
That intelligence isn't fluid but rather it static and that you cannot go above and beyond what your natural capabilities are.
None of this is true.
But it tells people that this is the case and then from there people set expectations that are lower and lower of themselves and they justify it by saying: " I don't have the intelligence to do any more than what I'm already doing, and it's not my fault.
There's nothing else that I can do. "
All these things are wrong and it creates tears and divisions between people in our society.
And it creates a lower class, an underclass of people.
We think that this is a fundamentally problematic system.
That having intelligence tests breeds a resentment for other for intellectuality generally and that it breeds resentment for oneself if you are said to be intelligent enough.
They also don't really divine and useful information for further planning.
And for these reasons we should abolish intelligence tests.