Surrogacy should be banned.
When a woman gets pregnant it's one of the most dramatic things that her body can undergo in her entire life, impacting her hormones, her ability to sleep, her ability to eat, the medicine that she takes, her ability to work and almost every factor of her life during that time, and it only gets more dramatic pregnancy goes on.
I think that this is dramatically coercive system in which women are paid to bear children, without entirely knowing the risks that they can take on, and once they do, having no ability to opt out of this system because they cannot abort the child nor can they reverse the fact that they're pregnant.
So this is what I'm going to talk about: why the systems are so coercive and why in this instance the government should step in and ban surrogacy contracts.
So, why is this unique from any other system that is coercive on individuals?
We think that individuals should not be able to give away their autonomy or their bodily autonomy into the future.
We don't think that individuals are good at understanding that , understanding the impacts of their present actions on their future self and the amount of pain or pleasure that their actions may have on them in the future which is why we don't think that people should be able to have contracts that sell themselves into slavery no matter how desperate they may be for money.
It's because there's no way to undo something once you've given up your ability to choose for yourself or to have your own bodily autonomy and therefore those contracts can't be outdone undone.
Unlike say, if you accept a job, you're able to undo the fact that you accepted a job you don't like or one that doesn't fulfill what you need in your life by simply quitting the job.
It might be something that you don't want to do, but unlike a pregnancy which is what happens under surrogacy contracts, there's no way to reverse that other than breaking the contract in a way that harms the fetus and harms the people that were relying on you once you had that child.
More importantly, we think that these contracts often target the most underprivileged women.
Women that otherwise wouldn't be able to feed themselves, feed their families, keep them keep a roof over their heads.
People that are most desperate society are the ones that are most likely to take these contracts because one, they're often the most misinformed about what actually happens during pregnancy or what might happen to one's body, what the cost of that might be long term after even after the pregnancy is done, and two, they're the group most likely to accept this sort of drastic action in favor of getting this money.
We think that this is an especially coercive system that is simply a means for people to utilize women who are in the lower classes in order to avoid having a pregnancy themselves, or in some cases allowing a person to arr, allowing a gay couple or a lesbian couple to adopt.
Now, that is something that's important is that these people should also be able to have children , for themselves.
The issue here is that we think that perfectly viable options such as adoption exist that allow people to have children and also allow people to remove the suffering that people who are in need of adoption face.
Adoptees are often the people that have the least access to education, to toys, to a good upbringing, to a childhood that is one that can set them up for future success, and when one adopts rather than goes through a surrogacy, you don't bring a new life into the world but rather you ensure that a life that's already in the world is able to receive loving parents and opportunities in the future.
So given that individuals who couldn't conceive on their own have the perfectly viable alternative of adoption, it's unfair to women for women to be coerced into this system for often less money than it's truly worth their time in their effort and the amount of medical expenses that they go through.
When there's a perfectly reasonable trade off such as adoption for individuals that do are desperate to have a child, we think that we shouldn't allow as a government and as a society, for the most vulnerable women in our society to be taken advantage of for the good of those who have other means of achieving these things.
There are other ways for people and women to be given help.
Social welfare exists, other job opportunities exist, but all these things are things you can opt out of where as a surrogacy contract is something that you simply cannot reverse and this is why surrogacy should be banned.