The one child policy brought more harm than good.
In this debate we're going to focus on the two aspects of the one child policy that I think are most controversial.
And the things that I think most clearly demonstrate the harms that were brought about by the policy.
The first is an is focusing on the impact on basic human rights and the second is the economic impacts.
While the policy may have come into existence in order to cap some of the social and environmental harms that come from large populations, we think that there are alternatives and we'll explain those that would have been preferable in both senses.
So firstly on basic rights: we believe that bodily autonomy, the way that you choose to use your body, the way that you choose to express yourself physically and mentally and emotionally, is the truest expression of self and the only way to have a fulfilling life as a human being.
The only way to truly be fulfilled into our position in life.
We think that both biologically and socially the rights of parenthood and the right to give birth, the right to control your ability to conceive and create a child are basic human expressions.
The idea and concept of the family, the social structure that exists as a family is ingrained within every society on the planet and its a focal point of aging.
It's a focal point of how we understand our lives as adults, as adult humans.
We think that the one child policy drastically restricts those people's ability to fulfill themselves in a way that society itself teaches them that they need to be fulfilled.
We think that this is a double edged sword, that the one child policy simply harms people in too great a way.
Secondly though, recognize that the situation in china has another cultural barrier, which is that men within chinese society and having boys is a desire greater than having female children.
That people have this desire based on social norms and social mores and a patriarchal society that exists that is harmful, but it's still the desire that these people hold.
The one child policy means that, if on the first try of conception you don't have a you don't have a male child, there are two possibilities that could happen, especially within families that are incredibly desire that have a strong desire to have a male heir that they can pass their inheritance, they can pass their wealth onto etcetera.
Firstly, it could lead to an higher number of abortions or even infanticide amongst parents that weren't able to get screenings earlier or weren't able to afford abortions.
We think that this is a massive restriction on rights of children that otherwise would have existed or in many instances did exist and had their life stolen away from them because of this policy.
Or it can lead to shaming the female children and a belief that is imbedded in these children that they are lesser because they aren't what their parents expected.
We think that either result has dramatically detrimental harms on the life and well being of the children that are born under this policy and we think that these social harms, these violations of identity in a basic human rights aren't acceptable.
But secondly there are massive economic outcomes that were detrimental because of the one child policy.
The one child policy meant that the aging population grew at a higher rate than the young population.
Which means that the current labor market, the current labor force in china, is much older than it otherwise would be, which means you don't have the amount of specialized and educated individuals that are able to fulfill more specialized job sectors in this than you otherwise would have.
Which means you may have a higher you may have a growing manufacturing industry but you don't have a growing service industry and you don't have jobs that require specialized and technical knowledge.
It also means that as these older people retire, there are fewer people to pay into a welfare system to support them.
Which means you need to take on more money in the long run to try and pay for the population, take on more debt, and have more taxation on the people in your state.
And finally if you wanted to ensure that the higher population could be supported, china has rural land and china has land that could have been developed otherwise that we think in the process of being developed, could've led to innovation, likely would have led to innovation and would have led to more opportunity for more people rather then the restriction of basic rights and trying to avoid environmental harms by simply restricting people's basic desires.
And for those reasons we think that the one child policy brought more harm than good.