Progressive tax is beneficial.
When we're talking about a progressive tax what we mean is a taxation system from a federal government or some other government in which individuals are taxed at a certain rate based on their income or based on some other quantifier that goes up, given the amount of wealth or influence or whatever measure you're going to go by, that's the tax we're talking about when we're talking about progressive taxation we're specifically talking about a type of income tax in which higher income tax, or higher income individuals are taxed at a higher rate.
So we think there are two reasons that progressive taxation is a beneficial form of taxation, and is better than a flat tax, which is another standard form of taxation.
The first is that progressive taxes more fair, and the second is that a progressive tax allows for more revenue with which the government can do more for the public good.
So firstly, why is a progressive tax fair?
We think that the basis for taxation is that when individuals enter into a society, they give up certain rights in order to gain access to certain common and public goods.
We think that when society gives out these goods, these are given based on the fact that individuals are taxed and they give up certain amounts of money, and they give up certain amounts of the product of their labor in order to gain those public goods, and in essence they're paying for those goods.
We think that individuals that are of higher incomes have gained more from those public goods than other members of society.
Now, what does this mean?
Recognize that these public goods includes things like the infrastructure with which commerce can occur, the protection with which commerce can occur, and all the other aspects of a functioning market that allow for individuals to participate in the capitalist system and make money from what they have been make money from their labor.
We think that this means that individuals that are able to gain more from this market essentially gained more from the existence of that market, and gain more from the system itself, but all individuals are need to pay into the system that allows for this market to occur.
Given that individuals are paying into this market, we think that the individuals that gain the most from that market are also bear the burden of ensuring that the market exists, especially given that that market often excludes a vast majority of the population, for instance, income inequalities rampant across western states in the status quo, and this means that this capitalist system has left many people out, and we don't think that those people should be forced to bear the burden of what the what these taxes ultimately go for, which the infrastructure that allows these things to function.
Now, this doesn't mean that individuals who are of lower class shouldn't pay into this pay into public works, because we think they also gain things outside of the economic boom that comes from the infrastructure that exists, but we think that they should be proportionate to what the individual has been gaining from that.
So secondly, why do we think that a progressive tax is going to get you more revenue?
We think that a flat tax rate means that individuals need to be taxed at a rate at which they can bear the burden of their taxation, which means you ultimately need to defer to the lowest tax bracket to determine how much of a tax rate they can bear in being able to live their lives but still pay the taxes that they get.
We think that for higher classes this is definitionally a higher burden that they can bear, because they have more disposable disposable income with which they can pay their taxes.
This means that if you have a progressive tax system, you can set appropriate rates for the burden that individuals can bear when taxing and when drawing from individuals' income, which means you can gain, on net, more money from a society and more money which you can do the public works.
This means that you can do more good for the whole, which means that you can get more infrastructure, both for the lower and higher classes, but it also means that when these individuals pay more into the system it keeps the capitalist system going, which allows them to gain that money back in the long run, and because it's more fair and you can get more revenue for the public good, we think that you should prefer a progressive tax.