We should not subsidize recycling.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments.
The first is that we think we're this subsidy is ultimately going to be a low impact subsidy and therefore it's not worth giving and the second is that they're simply a better use of funds and that this subsidy would be a comparative waste of money.
So first why do we think that this is going to be a low impact subsidy?
Well there are a few reasons for that.
Firstly, in most metropolitan areas, in most places in the developed world there exists infrastructure all ready for recycling.
Now this subsidy maybe going to improve those those conditions to some degree but we think that for the vast majority of areas the infrastructure already exists in such a way that if people wanted to recycle, if people wanted to help their help the environment and and do this process, they already have the ability to do so and we don't think that there's any sort of meaningful gain as far as infrastructure.
But secondarily, we think the public sentiment is naturally shifting toward recycling.
People are living in a world in which they are experiencing the impacts of pollution, they're experiencing the impacts of waste, and they're experiencing the impacts of climate change, and because of that people naturally are trying to do what they can in order to shift their behavior towards more renewable practices and one of those practices is recycling.
If you look at the history of recycling and you look at trends over the past say fifty years, it's an obvious upward trend and people are already taking the shift towards recycling.
Given that that is the case, we don't think that now subsidizing recycling further is going to meaningly change that trend.
We think it is likely going to continue to go up either way and we think that this subsidy isn't necessary in order to make that trend continue.
We think that people that choose not to recycle in the status quo don't do so because they don't have the infrastructure to do so or because they're unaware of these things but because they have a fundamental political belief that recycling is either wasteful or unnecessary or it's based on liberal ideas of climate change and pollution that aren't real and all of these things are not going to be less entrenched because you choose to spend more government money on subsidizing recycling.
And finally, there's a very low cost to engage with recycling.
It's essentially free in most areas to recycle.
So having this subsidy isn't going to have any sort of isn't going to remove any sort of barriers to recycling and we don't think it's going to ship the mindset for people to recycle.
Given that a subsidy is a public use is a use of public funds we think that it needs to actually serve some sort of public good.
But if recycling if increased recycling isn't going to happen because of this subsidy, it might happen because of general trends but not because of this subsidy, then there's no purpose to giving it.
And that brings us to our second point given that there are fungible resources that the government has at its disposal we think that the government needs to be incredibly scrupulous about how it spends those funds.
We think that there are simply better uses of those funds that can be used in the status quo.
One thing the the government can do is improve infrastructure in other areas.
America has deteriorating road systems, dams, has deteriorating public transportation.
These are multi-million billion dollar projects that we think could be greatly that this subsidy and this money otherwise could be going towards.
You can also give this money to education.
A clear public good in a clear area in which the state is currently failing.
You could also put it into the military and increase protection for your citizens.
The end there are endless limits to what you could use this money for otherwise and because of the low impact of the subsidy, we think almost any of those uses would be preferable to this.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize recycling.