We should legalize public nudity.
We're going to take a fairly broad stance on this motion and say that in public spaces, people should be allowed to be nude.
They should be allowed to go out without any clothing on whatsoever and shouldn't have to face any sort of repercussions for these actions.
Now, there's a difference between public indecency and public nudity.
So, for example, peeing on the streets or in somebody's yard, doing something like that, defecating in an area, and obviously being overtly sexual and harassing people while nude, all these things go beyond simple nudity, and we would still punish these things.
But in regards to simply going out in public and being nude, we see no problem with this whatsoever, and we're going to make two broad arguments as to why we should legalize public nudity.
The first is about the philosophy of punishment and why public nudity does not fit in with that standard and cannot be punished on a principle level, and the second's about body acceptance and why we think public nudity and legalizing public nudity would go a long way in creating better body norms.
All right, so first on the philosophy of punishment.
We would say that based on simply the definition of punishment, punishment must be done in response for a crime.
This is the delineation and the distinction that we use to distinguish between punishment and acts of violence and aggression.
It's what we morally use to determine whether or not punishment is just.
Therefore, we'd say that a crime then requires a victim and therefore, punishment, in turn, requires some sort of victim for that crime.
We would say that there's no real victim when it comes to public nudity.
My being out in the public and being nude does not meaningfully inhibit any other person's ability to go on about their day as they see fit.
It may be something that the people aren't entirely comfortable with.
It may people may not want to see me outside in the nude, but this doesn't mean that they're actually victims of some sort of harm that has been done onto them.
For example, an apt comparison would be: I can go out into a public space and with the proper permits or in the proper timing, I can protest and I can say things that I believe to be true that other people may disagree with on a fundamental level and they want me to not say.
But these things do not have a meaningful impact on their ability to live their life and therefore, we do not punish those things.
And this is, again, a distinction between public protest and hate speech.
In the same sense, going about your day and being nude in public isn't something that is actually harmful to those that are around you.
You're just being nude.
You're just out there and taking up the same space and the same capacity that you would be otherwise.
We think that given that this is the case and that there's no victim, you cannot principally justifiably punish someone for public nudity.
Now on to body acceptance.
We think that in the status quo, there's a massive stigma around people's bodies, and there's a massive stigmatization about natural body image, that people believe that in order to put themselves out there and to show their body off in a certain way, you need to be of a certain physical physique, which leads to people having to adopt these horrible standards of beauty and of normality that don't actually match what people do in real life.
Further, we think that there's a shaming that goes on about people being inquisitive about their body and about exploring themselves physically.
We think that this is something that can be mitigated by legalizing public nudity.
By legalizing public nudity, you don't just allow people to take these actions, but you send a signal as a government that there's nothing wrong with someone's physical appearance.
There's nothing wrong inherently with the human form and that being forced to see the human form is not something that is going to harm you in any way.
We think that this signaling mechanism sends a positive message to people within society, especially those that are most vulnerable in society to to bad body norms, such as young people, teenagers and young adults.
We think that by sending this signal out, the state is doing its job in trying to teach good body norms and trying to inculcate people with a type of perspective on the self that makes them feel more empowered, just mentally and physically, and we don't think there's a principled reason to punish these people anyway.
For these reasons, we should legalize public nudity.