We should not lower the drinking age.
So we want to make two things clear at the top of this debate.
We recognize that in in areas where drinking age is high, drinking still happens.
Underage drinking does happen but we think that the benefit of having a drinking age is not that it prevents all actors from drinking but that it does two main things.
Firstly, it does deter some young actors from choosing to consume alcohol.
Some people fear the punishment that comes with drinking alcohol.
Some people fear the fact that they could have a punishment or a crime on their permanent criminal record and also laws allow you to address instances in which young people are abusing alcohol.
If you do not have a law against drinking alcohol then when young people, people that are most prone to developing long term alcoholism, people that are most prone to damaging their bodies while they're still developing, people that are abusing alcohol at a young age where it comes with more risks, you cannot do anything about that as a state if they aren't violating the law.
So when we say we shouldn't lower the drinking age, we don't necessarily mean that you need to have long harsh punishments associated with underage drinking.
You don't need to put people in jail for long periods of time that harm their prospects in the future, harm their careers, harm their livelihoods.
We're just saying that you should have laws in place so that you can address underage drinking and that underage drinking is a problem that needs to be addressed in a meaningful way through our laws.
So what we're going to do with the rest of this debate is explain the impacts of alcohol on youths and explain why it's so crucial that while children are still developing they are not given free reign and free access to alcohol.
So firstly, when you are young, forming habits is incredibly important.
We think that regular behaviors that you take that you do while you're a young person, especially in your formative teenage years, are actions are you end up undertaking for the rest of your life for example, most people that smoke cigarettes for their entire lives or for long stretches of their life developed that habit while they were teenagers, during their teenage years.
We think the same is true of alcohol.
If you allow free reign to free reign of alcohol to young people, especially people that don't have the life experience and the mental development to understand how to drink responsibly, you're more likely to have these people become alcoholics in their life and this is the next thing we want to talk about is that your body is still developing.
You're much more likely to impair your mental development to impair your decision making processes to alcohol use while you are young than later in your life when your brain and your body has more fully developed.
We also think that this can cause other just physical harms to your body while it's still developing especially harms like liver disease and harms like liver disease are more likely to spring up when you're young and especially if you start a habit that's going to maintain likely for most of your life at least comparatively more likely than if you don't start drinking at a young age.
Again it puts you at a higher risk of these diseases moving forward.
We would say that youths lack the emotional maturity to drink responsibly.
We think they're more likely to suffer from alcohol poisoning because they perceive alcohol as this type of thing that allows them to remove their inhibitions, allows them to be social, allows them to party, things that have been developed within our popular media around the image of alcohol which means they're more likely to suffer from alcohol poisoning or because they don't have the maturity to make responsible decisions in the same way adults do they can take actions that harm others such as driving while drunk.
We think a higher drinking age allows you to ensure that when people do these types of things you can pull them aside, you can arrest them, you can strike fear into their hearts, and you can prevent them from making these poor decisions again in the future.
If you don't have these laws, you give free reign to alcohol free reign to consume alcohol to individuals that don't have the maturity to make responsible decisions while drunk, don't have the understanding of the dangers they're putting themselves in when they drink, and don't have a full comprehension over the harms they're doing to their body in the long term, as well as making it more likely that they develop bad habits and alcoholism in the long term.
For these reasons, we should not lower the drinking age.