We should fight gender inequality.
So, in this round, we don't want to present too much of a model.
We think that this is more of a principled round.
We think there there are many mechanisms the government can take, for example, providing affirmative action for women in public spheres of employment, providing tax breaks to women based on the pay gap that they face, other types of things that can fight gender inequality, but we think this round is more about principle and that's what we're gonna provide for you, two principled reasons why you should do this.
The first is that we think there's a historical right to reparations for women, and the second is that we think there are just good social outcomes when you fight gender inequality.
So, on that first point.
We would say that it is an undeniable fact that society has historically discriminated against women and disenfranchised them.
What are some of those ways?
Firstly, for large portions of history, women were entirely excluded from holding any sort of political power, even up to as early or as late as the mid nineteen fifties in some developed countries, and today in many developing countries, women do not have the ability to express their voice politically, to hold political office, or even to vote for people that express their views.
Secondly, there's confinement to non-paying labor, like staying at home and raising children or being forced into bad labor conditions.
Oftentimes, both of these facets are done through coercive means, whether they're explicit coercive means like a male figure forcing an individual woman to do this or because of immense social pressures that are placed on them that mean that they have no meaningful choice over the sphere they're entering.
We also think that stereotyping women as a gender as weak, hopeless, and building structures accordingly that try and confine women to these types of notions that we hold about them.
And fourthly, these these women are victims of having their bodily autonomy violated at a much higher rate than men, whether it's through things like sexual crimes or simply domestic violence.
These are things that women have to face that men simply do not, amongst many more patriarchal structures.
And men have benefitted from this and continue to do in the present.
And these patriarchal structures, in many cases, still remain, with the purpose to keep women out of these male spaces and consolidate power amongst men.
We think that we have a clear obligation to correct this given that, as men as a man myself and all men, that we have benefited from these patriarchal structures and continue to benefit from them, given given their unjust nature, the arbitrary distinctions drawn between genders and the overt harm placed on women, we have a right to give of ourselves in order to correct these past harms and to correct the present harms.
So, aside from those obligations, what about those good social outcomes?
Well, recognize that half literally half of the world population are women.
So regardless of any obligation, we think it would be a preferable world if fifty percent of people were to be benefitted from having gender inequality addresssed.
We think that more equitable earnings, for example, could give more financial independence and leverage for women, not only in the public sphere but also in the private sphere, in instances in which women may be tied to men financially who they may not want to be with.
We also think that women in positions of power serve not only as role models to empower the future, but also to work to to move women's issues forward as well as to provide new perspectives on old problems.
Men have had literally centuries to try and address and build a world that is equitable for all, and have clearly failed markedly at this task.
We think that maybe women should get a shot.
Finally, on the lottery of birth.
We think that we shouldn't be satisfied with abandoning half of the population to a lesser status because of the random chance of what chromosomes you were born with.
We think that it is demonstrably unjust that women still face these types of medieval harms and these types of discriminatory practices time and again across all social spheres.
We think that there's an obligation of all men and all people to fight against this, and for these reasons, we should fight gender inequality.