We should adopt direct democracy.
So the model that we're gonna be putting forward in this motion is that we think that, for simplicity's sake, we're probably going to allow that the legislature can continue to exist as a body that exists solely to draft laws and that bureaucracy, those types of structures, are still going to exist in order to fulfill those laws, but that when it comes to voting on legislature that is going to be enacted on any sort of level of federal or state or local level, all votes would be taken in the form of direct democracy, so all voting eligible individuals would have the chance or the opportunity to vote in such elections.
Okay.
So the general principle that we're going to put forward is that direct democracy is a a form of democracy in which you can do more good for the people and that you essentially get better outcomes.
So, firstly, we would say that the good is determined by the people.
We don't think that there's any sort of objective understanding of what is good for society or what needs to be put forward by a state.
We think that the understanding of what is good is determined by what the community needs and, essentially, can only be discovered within the community.
We think that the state as a body is almost always a course of entity in the sense that individuals have very little opportunity to consent into that state, to choose which state they're going to be a part of, things like this.
They're often forced into the state by their circumstances or the lottery of the birth and therefore, the state needs to be very respectful of the good, as determined by the community, in order for that state to be just.
Otherwise, it simply acts as a cartel that has control over a body of people.
So, we think that direct democracy allows for people to implement laws that they see fit.
We think that when direct democracy takes place, the other types of interests, the private, specialized interests that end up becoming involved in the legislatures that we see in western liberal democracies all across the world, we think that those things end up being drowned out.
Because the lobbying firms that allow for private interest have such immense power over legislators in the status quo, we think that type of lobbying power simply wouldn't exist on such a diversified and indirect way that it would be able to impact a system of direct democracy.
And we think that people are going to be more likely to want to participate in this type of system.
Because in the status quo, people feel like their votes have very little impact, not just because they're one marginal part of an entire electoral system, but also because they know that representatives oftentimes don't fulfill the promises they put forward.
They don't fulfill the things that they say they're going to do.
They end up changing their opinions whether it's because of new information they get or because of lobbying and specialized interests impacting how they choose to vote because they need to raise funds for their campaigns, things like this.
We think that these types of special interests that skew voting so that legislature ends up passing that simply isn't supported by the vast majority of a constituency.
And we can see things like this all the time in how current legislator current legislation that exists within the united states, for example, legislation about the criminalization of drugs, legislation about laws against bathroom use for transgender individuals.
These are unpopular laws amongst the populace, but but these laws continue to be in power and continue to be in play because of the special interests that that control them.
So we also think that you're ultimately going to get better outcomes when you switch to a system direct democracy, because not only do you allow the people that have the most vested interest in the laws, the average person, to have a voting say in which laws are going to be there that constrain them, the laws that are going to have control over them, we think that people now know that they have more of an impact on the democratic system, they have more of an impact on the state and the state laws they control them, and we think people are more likely to participate in this type of system, and we think you're less likely to get laws that go against the will of the people.
And because of these reasons, we should adopt direct democracy.