Further exploit small modular reactors.
So, there are two broad reasons why we think that small modular reactors are not good moving forward for businesses and homes and for other areas.
And these two reasons we'll dive into.
Firstly that nuclear power itself is very dangerous, and secondly, that the comparative alternatives, which are solar, wind et cetera, other renewable energy as we think that nuclear energy is probably preferable to the to the further use of fossil fuels, but not these other alternatives.
So these are the two ways that we're going to be talking about this on the government team.
The first, is the dangers of nuclear power.
Recognized hat even in the best case scenario, even when there are trained specialists in nuclear nuclear areas that are producing this energy, meltdowns still happen and disaster still happen.
Now in the status quo, nuclear reactors are somewhat few and far between there aren't many of them, especially in areas that are densely populated they're often put in areas that are far away from where general populations exist.
When you allow the proliferation of small modular reactors, what this means is that firstly, this sort of secluded way that nuclear energy is produced in the status quo, is not as secluded anymore which means that any possibility of a meltdown becomes much more impactful, and therefore even if this even if this likelihood is rather small, we thing that you need to take that into account and you should not be putting other people at risk when there are other alternatives available which I'm going to talk about in a second, but more importantly, when you do when you use nuclear energy through small modular reactors rather than using entirely nuclear facility, facility that creates energy for masses rather uses a small marjorie actor for, like, a building or a factory or something like that, but we think the problem with this is is that if there's some sort of failing, if there's some sort of problem with the reactor, then these trained specialists that are able to shut down the reactor, able to contain some sort of nuclear fallout, we think that those people are not going to be in place when you have widespread manufactured reactors such the small modular reactor, and what this means is that generally these things become less safe and that if there is some sort of safety hazard or safety issue, there won't be the proper people in place to try and secure this which means that not only does the, because of proliferation, the chances of some sort of accident happening increase, but also, the fact that if an accident is to happen, this would have a more widespread impact than other sorts of nuclear energy production.
So, aside from that, we think that the comparative gains that come from other sources of renewable energy, specifically solar and wind energy, are preferable to small modular reactors.
So there are a few reasons for this.
The first is that, because nuclear energy has this sort of taboo associated with it, solar and wind energy fields have actually been getting immensely more investment and they don't have the stigma against them which we think that nuclear does.
The benefit of this is that the technologies involved in the in solar and wind are constantly improving.
Solar energy and wind energy the efficiency of solar fuel cells and other things like that, the technology that goes in with these things, has been gradually getting better the last decade ever since real investment started coming into this, and we think that, the comparative benefit of this is that, even if the current models of solar and wind technology are not as efficient and not as useful in creating energy in certain areas, as a small modular reactor would be, a self contained nuclear fusion reactor, we think that, over time it's very likely that because there's immensely more investment into these fields, that you're likely going to get improvements to the scale of a small modular reactor, and of course it comes with the benefit that there's very little risk of any sort of safety hazard coming, any sort of melt down coming from either of these two technologies.
So, for those reasons, we think that small modular reactors should not be further exploited.