We should cancel the social security tax.
So we recognize that if you're to cancel the social security tax, it is likely going to follow that you need to cancel social security, which we think is something that was ultimately gonna have to happen anyway given how improperly the system is structured, but to give a cut off line, we think that it's not fair to take away the benefits of all individuals that are planning on receiving social security, especially those that have been planning and will rely on it in the near future.
We think that any individual over the age of forty five would still be able to collect social security benefits based on what's already accrued, but after that point we would eliminate the social security program altogether and of course eliminate the tax as it currently exists.
So, a few reasons why we think this is important: the first is that we think it's unjust for the state to paternalize in such a nature that just object, that only emphasizes long term, and we also think that there are short term costs that outweigh those potential long term gains.
So, recognize that longevity of life is not the most important thing in and of itself.
The ability to live a long life, to plan for the future, to do these types of things is not necessarily important.
It's only important in so far as: one, individuals value or choose to want to have the type of life, or two, individuals have the opportunity, individuals are able to internalize value through other means.
We think that there are alternative means for individuals to plan for the future if they see fit.
Recognize that if you choose not to take a social security tax, you can put that money that otherwise would been taxed into things like retirement funds, I-r-a's, and other private options that tend to perform better on the market because while they while they sometimes take risks, this often means that they pay off with larger returns and benefits for the people that pay into them.
We think that people should have the option of these types of things but the social security tax removes the liberty for people to make that decision for themselves.
And given that this tax restricts their financial freedom in the short term, there are harms that are passed on to the individual because they aren't able to access those funds that they otherwise would be able to do.
We think that this also has a disproportionate impact on the wealthy because they came very little from these types of benefits.
They would have otherwise been fine in the long run, but they're the ones that are forced to pay the largest amount of money into the social security system.
And yes we think there's a popular notion that the wealthy should pay this disproportionate amount of money into the government, but we think it's the case that these people didn't choose to be in this state just as anyone else did and that these people have worked hard for their money.
And given that this is the case we think that if the government is going to tax them at such a high rate, it should go into something that is actually going to be beneficial to all of society, including them.
Social security simply doesn't meet that barrier and there are alternative options for people that otherwise would want social security, who now are going to find alternative options.
We think there are short term costs as well.
This is a major tax on income and a loss of current assets.
The future is not guaranteed, which means if individuals had this money, and otherwise would have spent this money but go on to not collect social security because they died at young age, your simply stealing money from them that they otherwise could have used to improve their status quo.
We think that social security funding is ultimately broken is fundamentally broken the status quo and is being spent in an improper way.
We think that if you're going to have such a ludicrously high tax, there are ways that you could put this tax money to use that isn't social security, that isn't broken in such a way with the vast majority of individuals in the status quo, if it continues, simply will never be able to collect the benefits that it promises.
Given that this is the case and that the system does not is not stable, is not tenable in the status quo, and that this is a drastic preference for the future in a way that is unjustified, that doesn't give people free will and choice over their over their future and their planning, we should cancel the social security tax.