We should not prohibit hydraulic fracturing.
So when people argue against this type of thing, also known as fracking, we think that they often do so with the mind set of trying to protect the environment that there are environmental harms that come from fracking, that fossil fuels themselves are bad, and that all of these things mean that you shouldn't frack.
I'm going to make a bold statement.
I would say that this current situation that we are in as far as climate change is a state that is beyond repair it is a state that is at the point at which just cutting off our fossil fuel consumption is not going to protect us from the worst of all the possible changes that I was going to br-that is going to be brought up on the world and now we are now on a stage in which we need to try and become as productive as a species as possible in order to continue our technological progress and eventually create the types of technologies that can allow us to reverse the damage that we've done.
Things like removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, things like refreezing ice in the arctic, these types of things are things that we can only get if we have as much energy and as much productivity is possible and for this reason we don't think that fracking is something that can be cast aside simply because of environmental harms.
Because those environmental harms are going to come whether not fracking happens but fracking has meaningful upsides that should be exploited.
So we're going to talk about those upsides.
The first is about energy independence and the second is about the benefits of free market.
So fossil fuels are currently controlled by a very small group and this makes them fracking makes these types of things more available.
We think there are three main benefits to that.
The first is that you're better able to fuel the growth that we need especially the domestic growth that we need in in countries that don't have large reserves of fossil fuels, countries that are very well developed and countries that are technologically advanced such as the united states.
The ones that are likely going to produce the technology that are going to allow the reversal of climate damage as it is already happened.
We think that any any marginal difference in the amount of consumption of energy that we are capable of doing is a beneficial one and we think we should expand fracking for this reason.
The second thing is that you get cheaper oil prices for all.
This is just a net good benefit for all people in society.
If fossil fuel costs go down we think that this allows more people to do more productive acts and allows them to live a more beneficial life to themselves without having to expend as much money on transportation and other types of costs you can cost things like this.
And thirdly, we think it gives less international clout for bad nations such as saudi arabia and other opec nations that are currently able to abuse human rights in huge and flagrant ways simply because they control oil.
If you allow fracking to happen it means that they have less international clout and are less able to do these things as flagrantly.
Alright, the second we're going to talk about is free market.
We don't think it is the job of the government to direct the market in the way that it see fits.
We would say that demand for oil is still quite high, the demand for fuels are still quite high.
If it was the case that green technology and other types of technology where both market were both usable and not and cost effective on a free and open market and something that people wanted to adopt, this is something that people would be doing already but it's simply not the case that they are.
Given that this is the case in that people have a craving for fossil fuels, we think that fracking allows those fuels to be provided at the lowest cost, it allows for more productivity internally to a country, it allows for money to continue to be retained within the country rather than going out to bad countries such as saudi arabia that abuse human rights and abuse their populations and we think that if the time comes when these other technologies are viable on the market then people will freely switch to those things.
Because the environmental damage of fracking simply is not significant in the larger scheme of environmental damage and because there are benefits to the domestic economy into productivity, we should not prohibit hydraulic fracturing.