We should not ban strip clubs.
In this round, we're going to make two main arguments about why we think it would be unjust to ban strip clubs.
The first is that we think that, principally, such a ban goes against what the government should be allowed to do under a just state.
So, we would say that the state is inherently a coercive body.
It has an immense amount of power and influence that it can wield over its citizenry, and because it has the exclusive ability to use coercive force within its borders in a legitimate way, it has almost an unchecked nature.
We think that people are unable to fully consent to the state, either because they were just born into the state and they didn't have any options to leave, whether they were forced to be in the state for other reasons, and certainly because there are so many laws and institutions that exist that came before our time and we never had the ability to meaningfully consent into.
We think that without consent, the state is fundamentally just a bully.
It's no different from any other sort of cartel and in order to become just, it must find a principle for governance that it can use as a proxy for consent.
Because if you can't get consent, we think the next best thing to do is find something, some sort of government, that people would consent in to, to create a state that even though you don't have a mechanism for consent, you can safely say most people would consent to it.
And we think that the reason that people opt in would opt in to the state, fundamentally, is because outside of the state, there are no protection for your freedoms.
And given that that's the case, we think that freedom maximization should be the proxy for consent.
But, of course, bans run contradictory directly to those freedoms.
If you're banning something, you're fundamentally taking away a freedom from somebody.
So we think there are only certain conditions where you can do a ban.
The first would be if there is some sort of direct third-party harm.
Now these are kind of obvious cases.
If there's a direct third-party harm and you're inhibiting someone else's freedom, then, of course, we think it's just to try and ban that.
But this isn't the case with strip clubs.
There's no sort of third-party harm that accrues, either to the people that go to the strip clubs or to society writ large.
So we don't think that that's a justification for banning.
There could be some sort of asymmetry of information that causes harm, but we don't think that the people that are going to these strip clubs certainly have some sort of asymmetry of information that these are the jobs that these people are doing, and the and the people that work there, the same goes for them.
There's no of information imbalance that makes it dangerous for the people that consent into it.
And, finally, there could be some sort of overwhelming good to the community.
We don't think that's the case because we think that banning strip clubs fundamentally undermines female autonomy.
Historically, women have been a deeply oppressed group, with little control over how they lived their lives or how they were able to use their bodies.
There is simply a lack of autonomy that was granted to women.
Many call these strip clubs oppressive and patriarchal and say that these are institutions that we should ban, but we embrace an idea of autonomy, of feminism, that allows women to make choices for themselves, not to have the government tell them what they should and should not be doing, because that type of thing only reinforces the cycle that has been going on historically: that you take the control out of what women are able to do, of what we allow women to do, and you make decisions on their behalf.
But we think that these women are fully autonomous and fully capable adults who are able to make these decisions.
And look, women aren't forced to do these jobs, alternative jobs exist.
It's not like someone is being told they must have these jobs.
And many women feel empowered and make good money by working at the strip clubs.
We think it's fine to have certain protections to minimize harassment or any sort of abuse that could occur in the strip clubs, but that certainly doesn't mean that there's a need to ban these things outright, in order to ensure that women can express their full autonomy and that these can be safe spaces , you know, for women to work and to be a professional.
For these reasons, we should not ban strip clubs.