We should not subsidize women in science.
So we think that this subsidy would probably take the form of some sort of breaks to institutions that let women into their workforce, it would take the form of giving some sort of aid to women to go to school, but we want to say that the free market already solves for many of the problems this policy seems to address and that because of that we're going to explain why we simply should not have this subsidy.
So let's talk about why the free markets solves.
We recognize that women have been historically oppressed and suppressed from entering these spaces, from entering scientific fields of study of work and of discovery but structurally that it's no longer the case.
Let's break down why that is.
Firstly, in a way that has never existed before you have equal access to educational opportunities that allow women to enter science.
There are no there are no barriers that are brought up in our schooling system, there are no structural barriers that prevent women from entering these educational sectors and becoming qualified to enter into science careers.
There's no in the past this wasn't the case, in the past women were not allowed in these programs they were kept out of these programs because institutions were patriarchal institutions bought into norms and rolls of the time that said that women couldn't do science that they couldn't be in these fields that they couldn't be productive there but these don't exist anymore and now those the potential for growth and the potential for exploration exist.
There's also more avenues for scientific education that spurs female interest within with the invention of the internet and open information.
There are role models that are out there for young girls of women in science who are vocal about getting more women into science about creating a safe space for women in science and they're on the internet they're being role models and on top of this there's tons and tons of information and it makes learning and discovery much more easy.
There's also a huge need for STEM workers because of unfilled jobs in the market.
This means that businesses can't afford to deny women these roles.
If a qualified woman comes to take a job in the science fields it is likely the case that the businesses need them much more than the women need that one particular business because there are so many jobs out there on the market and this means that again structurally there's an incentive for businesses to take women in and to allow women to have these careers in science.
The pioneers have broken through showing young women that they can be successful in these fields and they provide role models.
And finally there's an incentive for women to enter these fields given that these barriers are broken down yes we know that it's still a male dominated field and that that can be discouraging to women but there's still a massive incentive for women to enter these fields because they have relatively high pay because they're very they're very secure in their job that people are very secure they have job security in these roles because they're stable and it means that as a job it's one of the better jobs you can get is in the science field.
Generally if the free market provides a solution we think it's simply waste a fungible resources to pour money into a non problem.
But let's talk about why principally this subsidy is bad.
Regardless of the potential impact, even if more women enter, this is a principly bad use of the subsidy.
Women intrinsically are no more qualified for men for rolls in science which means there's no huge increase in output or labor productivity when you get this sort of subsidy.
It means that there's no sort of growth for the country or for the state as a whole when you give this subsidy which means that you're only impacting the lives of individual people improving lives of only select individuals.
We think that because subsidies pull from the collective pot of funds because everyone pays into it and therefore because everyone pays into through their taxes there should be some sort of potential for a benefit to all people which is not the case here theft of money through taxes is what happens if that money is not spent on the collective.
It only it only distances itself from theft when it's being spent in a way that benefits all who contribute.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize women in science.