Patriotism does more good than harm.
We want to start this debate by refocusing what we think the comparative in this round is, because we don't think that patriotism is necessarily the comparative between people having a wider attachment to not just their local community but to the human community, but we think it's rather the latter.
That patriotism actually allows people to expand the community to which they feel some sort of empathy and which they feel some sort of deep attachment.
We think that the reason that this is the case is that individuals are born from their community, and because of that they have a they have beliefs, they have motivations that mimic those of their community, and they have ties to that community on a deep and personal level, one that you get only through years of interaction and communication between yourself and those around them.
Because of this we think that what patriotism actually does is it expands those boundaries, it gives you a narrative as a society that says we are not just the local communities we have, the local regions we have, we're not just the culture we have an immediate attachment to but it's also the culture that we have more widely.
And this isn't just an american-centric argument, this isn't just the fact that there are multiple regions in large states, this is the case in most normal nation states as we know them today.
Most nation states that exist in the status quo are come or come together from a number of cultures and numerous different types of regions that came together over history, and we think that the comparative is more likely that the localized culture is more strongly impactful on individual absent patriotism than some sort of collective human spirit that people feel.
So, given that this is the comparative in the debate, we're going to explain why we think that patriotism actually does more good than it does harm.
And the reason for this we believe, is that it's a call to be socially active on a wide scale that we think leads to good benefits for the state.
The first benefit we think is that when you have a call to be active, we think that this leads to more people being politically active.
What this means is that we think that things like corruption are much more easily checked because people that have a patriotic duty to follow their country are more likely to one, be against corruption when it exists in government because it go it is antithetical to the existence of the state itself, and secondly because they will be more likely to care about the issues that are ongoing and to push for their representatives to pursue legislation that helps them, that is good for their collective as a whole.
But also, we think that when people have a sense of patriotism, even when it doesn't reflect in them being politically active, we think it allows them to be more socially active.
When you have some sort of connection to your state, we think it leads people to do more positive, good thing more positive jobs within that state.
For example, serving as in military service or serving in national defense, we think is much easier for someone to commit to when patriotism is an aspect of their upbringing because they have an understanding of themselves as a part of their broader community.
Taking on public service jobs and education and in defense and things like this, some parks and recreation.
Things that help the larger community but don't pay as well as private sector jobs.
We think that this is more likely to occur with a patriotic feeling and that with a patriotic country with a patriotic sense instilled in individuals because they have a broader connection to the community outside of themselves.
They have a larger web to grow and create empathetic connections with, and because we think this is the case people are one, more likely to explore outside of their own culture because they see their country as something that is woven together a number of regions and number of unique dialectics that exist within that country, and secondly because we think people care more about helping their country more broadly than they otherwise would have if they had been only localized individual, an individual that only had the sort of inherent empathetic connections to those around them.
And because this creates more communal good, both in the polity and in society broadly, we think that patriotism overall does more harm or more good than harm.