We should abandon the insanity plea.
So, in this round, we're going to make two broad arguments as to why the insanity plea should not exist in the criminal justice system.
The first is that it creates an immense stigma around mental illness, and the second is that, at most, some sort of mental illness can be a mitigating factor, but it should not be something that allows you to walk free without guilt.
Okay.
So, firstly, on to the stigma.
We think that in the status quo, the the insanity plea and the idea of the insanity plea in popular culture is one that paints mental illness as something that bars an individual from having any sort of control over one's actions, that to be insane and to have a mental illness are the same thing, and that to and that if that is the case for you, you are someone that cannot control your actions and is subhuman.
This simply is not the case.
We think that there's a surly spectrum of illnesses that the insanity plea fails to recognize but that people are still able to be cognizant of their actions and make decisions for themselves, even if they are suffering from some sort of mental illness or insanity.
The second thing is that we think this creates an out for people who conduct hate crimes, such as the charleston shooter.
The charleston shooter in south carolina has pled pled not guilty by reason of insanity, and did so because they were able to use their idea of hatred, their their mental state at the time as one that passed off as insanity to the public eye, because people in the public may have viewed that as something that someone would literally need to be insane to hold.
But this isn't the instance of insanity that should matter.
This isn't something that meaningfully stopped him from processing the actions he was taking, choosing not to take the actions that he undertook, and recognizing that what he was doing was wrong, that societally and that socially, the action he was taking was wrong.
We think the insanity plea gives an excuse for people who are not insane to try and get out of their crime, especially in cases of hate crimes, especially in cases of very heinous crimes, where people have assumptions about the mental state of the accused in general.
Okay.
So, secondly, we think that mitigating circumstances just work better in these instances.
It's important to have a mitigating circumstance for instances in which people genuinely can't control their actions and instances in which someone literally lost the ability to control what their body was doing, literally lost the ability to use their mental capacities in order to decipher between right and wrong.
These are instances in which we should have a mitigating circumstance, but this is not how the insanity plea behaves.
The insanity plea says, yes, everything that happens did happen, but we cannot be tried, based on that, because we are insane, and the entire criminal trial becomes one that is based around whether or not someone meets the burden of insanity.
We do not think that this is how criminal trials should happen.
We think that once someone admits that they did something wrong, once they admit to the crime that has been committed, there may be a reason why you give them a lesser sentence because of their mental state, but they are still a guilty actor who has recognized that what they did is something that is wrong and were obviously cognizant enough about it to understand that they took that action in the first place and to plead guilty.
In these instances, we don't think the insanity plea works because it allows people to get off for crimes entirely.
It doesn't just mitigate the sentence that they receive for that crime.
We think that is wrong because it doesn't give the justice that victims seek, and it doesn't uphold the criminal justice system in the sense that it allows people of certain of certain mental illnesses and allows people of certain limited capacities to get off free and have no repercussions for their actions.
It degrades the ability for the criminal justice system to deter people in the future, and it doesn't provide the justice that victims seek.
For these reasons, we should abandon the insanity plea.