We should not disband nato.
Since the end of world war two in the beginning of the cold war nato has been one of the most important international organizations on earth.
We think that to disband nato would be an incredibly rash decision given firstly that international cooperation that is fostered by it is not only good but necessary, and secondly that the flaws that exist in nato are not an essential feature of its make up and because of this we think that disbanding nato goes way too far in addressing those flaws, so those are the two points are going to talk about.
Firstly on the international cooperation associated with nato and why this is good.
So recognize that europe and the other countries that are that are members of nato have historically not been on very good terms.
You can look at the last two world wars that took place on the european continent to see the fractions fractures of cooperation and unity amongst the continent and the world itself.
Nato creates a combined security task force that combines the desires and security desires and needs of all these countries and aligns them together.
What this does in nature is it ensures that the security decisions of these countries are aligned and what this means is that it is far less likely that any of these countries would ever want to attack each other or ever want to go against each other because they know they have the same security interests.
They don't have to be looking over their shoulders constantly and they don't need to think: " well as friends I know that germany has twice in the last one hundred years gone to war with me, caused substantial destruction " those types of fears can be alleviated because they are on the same side of this nato treaty.
They're the same, they are part of this organization and as such they don't need to be afraid of each other.
This is a huge difference between the historical narrative that has taken place in europe and these other global areas, and what is actually happening now.
And we think that by disbanding nato you remove that type of security influence, you remove that unity and cooperation at least to a substantial degree.
We also think that there are still major threats that nato tends to push off.
So the reason for this is that nato provides fairly substantial deterrence.
The fact that the united states and other developed powers provide security assurance to each other to ensure that if I'm attacked we will support you, we will fight back against the enemy, we will ensure that your protection is made a priority just as much as ours.
These types of protections make it the case that threats that exist on the global stage are more risk averse and are less likely to try and take action against any single member state.
So what are some of these risks?
First, as we can see through through what's been occurring in ukraine and other places such as syria, russia has become once again fairly aggressive under vladimir putin.
We think that if nato did not exist, if this band of collective security did not exist, it is much more likely that russia would become more aggressive, especially in the baltic states and former soviet states such as estonia and other border states between russia and mainland europe.
Secondly, there are terrorist organizations that are, again, more likely to try and take coordinated attacks when they think when they know that there's not going to be such a dramatic backlash, which is the case in the status quo.
And this is part of the reason why we think terror threats have been more concentrated in the middle east and other regions outside outside of nato.
Finally, the collective defense against cyber hacking and cyber warfare substantially specifically from russia.
So, given that this is the case we think it's important to recognize that the flaws associated with nato: the types of imperialist actions, the combativeness that comes with nato, the tension that exists between nato and russia and china, these tensions, the these tensions are historical in nature.
This combativeness is historical in nature.
We don't think that by eliminating nato do you get any substantial increase in the amount of cooperation between russia and mainland europe or china and mainland europe but what you do get is the loss of international cooperation that has fostered the most security on the european continent in the history of the world.
Given that these flaws are not essential and that there are substantial risks that nato still protects from, we should not disband nato.