We should end the use of solitary confinement.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments as to why we think solitary confinement is cruel, it's unusual, and it's something that is inhumane to use, generally.
So, first, let's walk through the various ways and the exact reasoning as to why we view solitary confinement as cruel and unusual punishment.
And it's first important to recognize that even if you're not talking about the united states, most liberal countries with a constitutional democracy have, in some way or another, banned cruel and unusual punishment of prisoners in some wording, in some way, shape or form.
So these principles are fairly consistent throughout most of the developed world, most of the democratic world.
So, humans, we think it's incredibly obvious, are social animals.
Not only can you look at that just through our creation of cities and our family units that we bring together, but just through our day-to-day interactions.
Even the most shy of humans, even the most introverted of all need some sort of human interaction in order to function in a normal way, in order to keep themselves from going stir crazy.
And in order for them to function as a normal person, you need some sort of outside interaction, but solitary confinement obviously does not allow for that.
It twists human psychology, because it ties you away from the rest of the world.
It forces you into an isolated environment that you're not familiar with.
And much like if you were to put, say, a monkey into a cage, a small cage where it couldn't interact with the outside world, it's going to that monkey is going to have a panic attack.
It's going to freak out.
And while humans are slightly more , you know, developed as a species, we still have those same wirings in our brain.
We still have the same mental desire to have space, to have human interaction, to have contact with another person, and solitary confinement goes against our very basic human nature.
And most studies show that long periods of solitary confinement, weeks to months in solitary confinement, some people even spending over a year in solitary confinement, these people have long-term mental issues that come up because of solitary confinement.
Not only do they have depression and not only do they have long-term anxiety, but they just change fundamentally as a human being.
We think that even if you're just doing this in the short term, it's tantamount to torture.
It's doing something that you know is uncomfortable, you know is going to make that person feel squeamish, and anxious, and hurt.
It is fundamentally torture, and it should not be allowed as a sort of punishment.
And we think you can keep threatening or dangerous prisoners separate without without putting them in solitary confinement.
You can still allow them to have interactions with the outside world.
You can still allow them, for example, to communicate with other people.
You can still have them allow you can allow them to talk to other people, have larger spaces to move around in.
We don't think that this is necessary for prisoner safety.
And we think overall, as a general principle, prisoners should be treated with more dignity.
We think that despite the fact that you are in prison, all people should still be treated as human beings.
The fact that you made a mistake, the fact that you were raised in such a way that you could commit a crime, no matter how heinous, is not fully your responsibility.
It is not fully your fault.
You were educated, raised, and biologically driven in many ways to act the way you did, and we think even the person that has done the most harm deserves some basic human dignity and empathy.
For these reasons, we should end the use of solitary confinement.