We should not ban breast implants.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it would be problematic to ban breast implants.
The first is that we think that this is an unjust ban.
When we say that this is an unjust ban, we think it's important to recognize what the government is justified in doing based on its existence.
We would say that, at its very core, the state is essentially a massive coercive apparatus.
It has the power to wield immense influence over people's lives and it's relatively unchecked.
We would say that people simply are not able to fully consent to the state, that there's no mechanism in place for people to do this in a meaningful way, and even if there were, we don't think that people have the ability certainly to consent to all laws that govern them, but they don't have the ability to opt out of any law they see fit.
We think that without consent, the state is essentially just a cartel.
It's no different from any sort of other authoritative body that is unjustified in all actions, that is a priori unjustified.
We think that in order for the state to do any sort of action, there must be some sort of justification for the state body, and from that justification, we think you can determine what is justifiable action by the state.
We would say that the state is justified and that people would consent to the state.
They would opt-in to the state because, in a state of nature, people have no freedom, no protection for their freedom.
So, they live in a state in which they have infinite freedoms, but zero protection for those freedoms, which means those freedoms are essentially meaningless.
But you opt-in to the state and you give up certain freedom, say, the, say, for example, your freedom to murder another person, in exchange for having the vast majority of those freedoms protected and upheld.
And so, freedom maximization, we would say, is the maxim that the state must follow, which obviously goes against the principle of a ban in any case.
So when do we think you can ban?
Because, clearly, we do ban, and we think it's justified in some instances.
Well, first, you may have a direct third party-harm that causes a ban to take place, for example, bans on murder, bans on assault.
There's a direct third-party harm in those instances.
But in the case of breast implants, there's no third-party impact whatsoever from those breast implants.
If you, as an individual, choose to have breast implants, that action, no matter any sort of pain or any sort of procedural harms that could be done unto you, those are not third-party harms, and they're not going to be passed on to a third party.
There could also be some sort of asymmetry in information that causes direct harm.
So you can't have so maybe you don't have full information of the impact of breast implants, but we think if that that, firstly, that largely is not the case but even if it were, regulatory practices would be sufficient in order to ensure that, say, doctors inform patients that a breast implant could cause bad problems moving forward.
It could cause problems breastfeeding, etcetera, things that are already widely known, but you can just advertise that more easily, and there's an apparatus that allows that to be feasible.
Finally, though, we think that this is anti-feminist and reinforces patriarchal harm.
So, many would say that breast implants banning breast implants, the purpose of this is to say: remove women from the male gaze, that breast implants are done so that women can meet beauty standards that are largely set to please the male gaze and that, you know, banning breast implants means you can't perpetuate these norms.
But we think the problem with this is that doing so removes female autonomy, which is the root of patriarchal oppression.
All patriarchal oppression stems from removal of female autonomy, whether it's the autonomy to go into the workforce, the autonomy to hold land and property, to have assets that are your own.
All these things are the root cause of patriarchal oppression.
And so, banning female banning the use of female autonomy to make a decision, especially about what you, as a woman, want to do with your own body, perpetuates and and and continues to allow for those patriarchal harms to be inculcated in our society and to be passed on to women, which we think is fundamentally unacceptable.
This, on top of the fact that just, as a state, this would be an unjust ban, we we believe that we should not ban breast implants.