We should abolish the needle exchange programs.
So, we think the principle in this debate is one in which we recognize that the purpose of needle exchange programs is supposed to stop the spread of things like STDs and other viruses that can be spread between addicts, but we think what's important to recognize is that, above all, these are costs that are associated with drug usage, but that the drug usage itself is something that is incredibly detrimental to a person's well-being, and what we mean by this is that heroin usage can ruin one's life in a number of ways, that simply outweigh the possibility that you cut down on sexually transmitted diseases.
We actually think you're more likely to get more people doing these types of drugs, doing these types of things, if you even incrementally decrease the risks that are associated with them.
So that's what we're going to talk about in this debate.
We're going to say that people are more likely to use, and that this outweighs any other considerations and things that may be gained by those needle exchange programs.
So, why do we think people are more likely to use?
Firstly, you have an infinite access to needles.
So as soon as you have one clean useful needle, or any needle that you can find, you're able to get any number of resupply from these programs, which means that in in instances in which people otherwise may not be able to accumulate the equipment to do these drugs, they now have much easier access point to get these types of things, and we think that is incredibly detrimental, because we think that it means that people that otherwise may be forced to quit by their circumstances are going to continue to use, and that's problematic.
We also think it obviously reduces the risk of a that are associated with heroin.
Things like HIV are are additional incredibly detrimental to one's livelihood.
And if you're an individual that's considering using heroin, we think that this is something that may weigh against it.
We think that maybe if someone still wants to get the high of heroin, they may go to other drugs that don't have the same types of risks associated to it, but if you decrease the risk of these external diseases, and these diseases have no pleasure associated with them, the reason people are willing to take the risk with heroin is because there is an end gain from that, but there's no end gain from contracting HIV from using heroin.
So we think that when you decrease the the likelihood of those types of things, you're more likely to get people to do these things.
And finally, we think there's a signaling mechanism associated with this.
So, even though needle exchange programs don't overtly say that heroin is okay or that this is something that people should do, when you're willing to increase the ease of access to these types of things, we think it signals to individuals that heroin isn't as bad as you otherwise signal, and you keep laws as stringent and as strict, and you don't institute these policies, and signaling is crucial.
When government and society sends a message to people, especially the people that are vulnerable or on the edge, or those that are most likely to consider using heroin, when you send those types of signals to people, it has a real impact on their psychology and a real impact on their behavior.
And we think that evens and marginally increasing the potential for people to choose to use heroin, because they think it's not as bad as they otherwise would believe.
Again, the risks associated with heroin usage, the likelihood of overdosing, the likelihood of addiction, the things that in heroin are much worse than in any other drug, we think that those things cannot be tolerated and cannot be allowed within our society.
Even though needle exchange programs may decrease the risk of other types of illnesses associated with heroin, we think that those are risks that people are able to recognize when they choose to do this drug, and are crucial in getting people to avoid using heroin in the first place, which we think should be the end goal and should be a major goal of society to avoid drug addiction and drug use, especially when it comes to heroin.
And for these reasons, we should abolish the needle exchange program.