We should subsidize agriculture.
What's important to recognize at the very beginning of this debate is the state of agriculture in the status quo in the developed world.
We think that oftentimes people, when they think of agriculture, they have a a vision of bar small family farms in which few people are in charge of the farm, or in which there is small amounts of land being taken care of, but that's simply not the case in the status quo.
In the status quo farming is largely a large corporate business in which thousands of thousands of farms are owned by conglomerates and controlled in such a way in which large corporate profits are boosted and very few people still own their farms.
For this reason we can that's actually crucial that we subsidize agriculture.
We think that's important to ensure that small farms are able to be maintained and more importantly that we subsidize agricultural systems that are efficacious both for our health and for the things that we're supposed to be taking care of, AKA the world.
So, why do you think that subsidies help in this regard?
We think that targeted subsidies to the few existing family farms and to the few existing small farms ensure that ethical farming practices are able to take place.
Whether this in the instances of agriculture what we think this amounts to is ensuring that pesticides and insecticides aren't overly used on crops that exist, because these are types of things that can have major detrimental impacts on the health of individuals and largely do occur on those large macro farms in which large amounts of land and large amounts products need to be taken care of and in order to do so industrial pesticides and things of that nature are overwhelmingly used in those instances.
But on smaller farms where crops are more manageable these types of practices aren't necessary in the same sense.
So when you're able to subsidize these farms we think that the amount of good products, of well grown fruit and vegetables that aren't covered in insecticides and pesticides, that aren't harmed by these things, that are more healthy for humans to consume, we think the amount of those are larger but it also ensures that in order to get those good products individuals don't need to pay exorbitant prices they don't have to, because these farms don't need to compete with the same type of prices ur they still need to compete with the same type of prices of these macro farms, these large corporate farms but because they're being subsidized the consumer doesn't have to pay for that but rather the government can pay for that can ensure that good products are able to be produced.
More importantly, we can that when you give subsidies it allows for more innovation from these types of farms and we think that types of farm such a thing farms that are practicing with things like vertical farming are able to be more explored when they're subsidized.
The reason for this is that new innovations in things like agriculture are hard to come by because the macro farms don't need innovation in order to make a profit but the smaller farms do.
And when you allow the smaller farms to flourish through subsidies they can do things that are more risky, such as testing out new farming methods.
Vertical farming for instance is farming that ensures that allows for a more efficacious use of land because you grow upwards rather than just using the amount of square footage that you have on the ground.
This type of farming requires new techniques and other and other types techniques are necessary to ensure that good products and good fruits and vegetables can still be produced without having to use vast amounts of insecticides, pesticides and other types of fertilizing and farming techniques that are harmful to the environment and that are harmful to the the ecosystem in which we live.
We think that subsidizing these types of products, that allow for a more holistic approach to farming, that allow for a less harmful impact on the environment in which we farm, and in which small farms are able to compete with larger corporate farms is a better is a better environment in which we should have our society, it's a better environment in which our children grow up in and we think that it's a healthier environment overall and a healthier farming system and agriculture system for all of us that consume the goods that the agriculture system puts out.
We don't think that subsidies need to be given in large parts to these corporations, that are doing fine, but in these other instances we think that subsidies are absolutely crucial and we think that for for that reason we should certainly subsidized agriculture.