Women in combat do not bring more good than harm.
So we think our burden in this round is very clear.
We're not trying to show that women are bad or anything like that, just neutral or or or worse.
So, we're not trying to show that women are are bad in any way, that they can't serve in combat, but rather that women, as a collective, do not bring more good than harm.
So with that being said, the first argument that the government side makes is about equality, is that women in the military allow for equality in both national service and for the opportunity that women receive and all people receive after they serve in the armed forces.
So, our response would be that this is only true if service leads to one of two things: a, beneficial outcomes for the individual, or b, beneficial outcomes for the military.
So this equality might be nice in theory, but if it doesn't have any sort of practical impact in either of those arenas, then we don't think it actually matters when it comes to women.
So, on the first thing, on the individual, we think that military life is largely a hardship that, in many areas, especially if you're in combat, in that many areas does not result in sufficient compensation or care following that combat or that service.
And so we think that it means that, for the average individual, serving in the military does not do more good for them than harm.
And on the second point, that of the collective, the military itself is still largely patriarchal and masculine-driven, menaing that women in combat doesn't actually change the pro-male culture that exists in the military and because of that, we don't think it does any sort of this equality does not this equality in name does not bring about equality for the collective and therefore, it does not do more good than harm.
It doesn't provide that sort of benefit.
Also, this has not been a meaningful tipping point for broader breaking down of masculine and feminine role conception in our society writ large, meaning that while this may, on the surface, be an aspect of social progression, like it is that equality is driving the fact that women are able to serve in the armed forces and and play a role in combat, but that it does not in itself create more good than harm.
So while we think equality certainly creates more good than harm and that this is a by-product of equality, this in and itself is not creating any sort of net gain in good.
So, the second argument that the government side makes is that women bring special skills that improve the performance of the military, so maybe the collective isn't improved in terms of equality, or respect, or toxic masculinity, but it's improved because women bring all these skills that men just don't bring.
And so it is certainly undeniably true that many individual women bring a unique set of skills to the table and are fantastic service people, but the skills that they bring are not derived from their existence as a woman.
Those skills are not an intrinsic part of being a woman, but rather their skills as individuals, just like any other individuals, just like any man, women are able to bring unique and fantastic skills to the table that certainly help the armed forces.
We think that women specifically as a group are just as capable of assisting in combat as men, but are not but this isn't because their gender not because of their gender are they more likely to succeed than men.
And because of that, we we would say that, in a combat role, they are, as a collective, just neutral by default.
So, in summary, we think that women, certainly on an individual level, woman by woman, does bring unique unique things to the table to help the military, but as a collective, they don't bring anything unique, because they are women, that men cannot bring, and therefore women in combat is neutral, and women in combat do not bring more good than harm.