We should not end daylight saving times.
So we think that what's important in this debate is to recognize the balance of actual harm that is created by daylight saving time against the benefits that are accrued even if people aren't aware that those benefits are being accrued.
Firstly we're going to talk about why we think the harms of daylight saving are dramatically overblown and then we're going to talk about two primary benefits of people being able to have daylight more during the day than they otherwise would without daylight saving times being in place.
So let's look at it this way: it is not that difficult to switch over a course of one day from a one hour cycle from a cycle that is one hour earlier to one that is one hour later or vice versa.
Yes, it is something that can be unfortunate if you need to get up early, it's something that can be annoying to people en masse.
But it's not something that is actually physically that difficult to comprehend, that difficult to take in.
It just requires your body to shift one hour in either direction.
And yes, it is true that there are certain amounts of accidents are caused by daylight saving time, that people's moods might be worse the next day, but there are long term benefits that accrue from daylight saving times that these things don't take into account.
Furthermore, we think people have simply gotten used to having daylight saving time.
Yes, they might be annoyed by it but they have they have that disruption in their cycle as something that they are used to.
They're used to having this this switch twice a year and we think that switching back doesn't create a less destructive cycle but just disrupts these peoplea cycle in a different way as we'll explain in a second.
And finally, even if the purpose is outdated, which we acknowledge that it is, it doesn't mean that the status quo needs to be overt that the status quo is overtly harmful nor that it means that it needs to be overhauled in this dramatic way.
So what do we think are two big benefits that come from daylight savings?
First, it means that you're more likely during your commute to work to be driving during the sun er while the sun is up.
Why is this so crucial?
Studies have shown that when people are driving during the daytime they are significantly less likely to get into an accident than they are when they're driving at night.
And yes there are certain studies that show that you're more likely to get into an accident the day the day after daylight saving time has switched after after the change has been made, but we think that this is outweighed by the fact that in the long run you're just going to have fewer auto accidents because there are more times when people's commutes are during the day, you shift rough rush hour hours so that they're during the daylight because of daylight saving times.
We think that this outweighs any sort of harm that can be accrued in the short term and is one of the ways that we think that long term benefits accrue from daylight saving times.
The second main benefit is mental health.
We think, and this is something that again has been shown by studies, that more sunlight is better for your mental health.
Human physiology is constructed in such a way that being out in the sun is something that we were evolved to do, is something that raises our level of endorphins, it's something that makes us in a better mood, that makes us more active, that makes us less that causes lower rates of depression, and especially during the times of the year where during winter times in either continent we think that these are times in which rates of depression already skyrocket.
We think those things would only get worse if you were to make this switch.
Generally we think that daylight saving time, as far as the status quo, is rather negligent.
But it creates these long term benefits as far as auto accidents and mental health are concerned and for these reasons we should not end daylight saving times.