We should not ban strip clubs.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think strip clubs are just not worth and not just not justified to be banned.
So, first argument is about female autonomy.
We think that many of the people that are opposed to strip clubs are opposed to them because they view them as a patriarchal establishment that exploits women and dehumanizes them and uses them only as bodies rather than people.
And we think that it's certainly true that history is patriarchal in nature, but recognize that the form that that patriarchy takes place in is always under a certain type of subjugation and that women have had their autonomy limited in myriad ways throughout history, and autonomy being limited is the primary underpinning of the actual impacts of those patriarchal societies.
We think that the way to correct for this patriarchal oppression is not to tell women what is dehumanizing or what's indecent for them to be doing, but rather to let women have the authority over their bodies and their choices.
We think that's how you actually undermine patriarchal establishments and that the best form of feminism is the feminism that empowers female choice.
We don't think you should treat all women as essentially similar in nature, that all women are going to have the same beliefs about what harms them, what makes them feel dehumanized, what makes them feel powerless, and that you shouldn't just stereotype women by saying all women will be impacted in a negative way if they were to be employed at a strip club or because of the existence of strip clubs.
And therefore, we don't think that you should ban strip clubs in order to protect the women that work there.
So, next, we just think it's an unjust ban generally, given that it's a that it's not justified to protect the women that work there.
Recognize the state is a coercive apparatus in that's what it fundamentally is.
It has the only ability to wield coercive power over people within the state borders.
And we think that because of this, when the state is choosing to ban something, the state needs to be justified in doing so in order to avoid it being a unjustified use of those of those state powers, because those state powers are relatively unchecked.
And if the state doesn't have guiding principles that dictate what ban is and is not justifiable, then the state can simply turn towards tyranny.
So, when we're talking about when we think a ban is justified, we think that there's a few reasons when that ban might be just.
And those instances all kind of fall under this umbrella idea that people opt in to the state or would opt in to the state in order to maximize their overall freedom, that they give up certain liberties in order to get overall more freedom, protection of their freedoms.
So under that guiding principle, when do we think a ban is justified?
First, there might be some just outright harm that minimizes third-party individuals, like a direct third-party harm.
This is why we ban things like assault and murder.
Again, this is not the case with strip clubs.
There's no direct third-party harm from strip clubs being in business or from them being open.
There may be indirect harms from people being offended by their existence, but we think that this offense is not a fundamentally justified reason for banning something.
Secondly, there may be some sort of asymmetry of information that causes direct harm.
So, this could be a situation in which if there was just if you had a full understanding of the situation in front of you, you could make a reasonable choice and accept some harms, but those harms aren't known to you because there's an asymmetry of power and information.
But again, this isn't the case with strip clubs.
And finally, in some rare instances, you may do this for the overwhelming good of the community.
But if the overwhelming good of the community is protecting female bodies that work there and I've already explained why that's not going to happen, we think there is no justification there.
For these reasons, we should not ban strip clubs.