We should not prohibit corporal punishment.
So at the beginning of the debate we want to be clear that what we're talking about is corporal punishment of children specifically, so we're talking mostly about parents and teachers and their ability to use physical punishment as a means of deterring children from behaving in certain ways and instilling certain lessons.
We believe fundamentally that when it comes to actions such as corporal punishment that regulation is a preferable path than banning.
We think that regulation allows for any of the positive side effects of corporal punishment to still come through, while ensuring that we create a clear line to delineate between corporal punishment and child abuse, and to ensure that people do not cross that line.
So that's the path we're going to take.
We're gonna explain two reasons why this is better.
So, first, about parental freedoms.
We think parents earn certain freedoms by taking on the responsibility of raising a child.
Raising a child is an incredibly difficult task both mentally and physically, and it's a and it's an immense drain of financial resources.
These are all things that are that weigh down parents' ability to behave in the way they choose to see they choose to do, and it's doing a good service for society.
So we think that generally rearing children, educating them, bringing them up to be valuable members of the community is a good service that parents do without compensation.
Because of this, we think that they have earned certain certain leeway in how they're going to behave and treat their children.
Parents understand their children.
They know how to educate their child best, and they do this better than the state because they have a closer association to that child.
They have more information about that child and more information about how they may or may not learn lessons and what strategies work best for teaching that child these lessons.
Finally, we think parenting is simply difficult.
We think that getting that frustration out every now and again with spanking isn't going to do any real harm to a child, but is something that can ensure that parents don't create more tension in their household, hold in anger, and yell at their children repeatedly and do things that could eventually escalate to child abuse.
So we think that doing small actions like that are okay: regulation to ensure that there are reasonable limits.
You don't want to harm the child long term or anything like that, but reasonable limits, and to ensure that people don't do it frequently enough to scar their children is a way that you can create a clear line between abuse and punishment and allow parents to have these freedoms that they've earned by taking on this burden.
Finally, we're going to talk about the benefits of corporal punishment.
Corporal punishment teaches a lesson in a way that stands out to a child.
It's something that they're more likely to internalize.
Think about it this way: children grow up all the time hearing lessons about what they are and are not supposed to do.
They're told, time and again, that certain behaviors are bad and that other behaviors are good, and they frequently break the rules that have been laid out to them by their parents, by their teachers, etcetera.
And yet, they never receive any in our modern society, very rarely receive some court of stark rebuke for what they've done.
Maybe they receive some timeout for a period of time, maybe they don't get to play with their video games for a period of time, but we don't think that this is a stark enough lesson to really imbue children with what they need to learn to learn the morals of society, to learn and become socialized to fall in line with those morals.
Corporal punishment, such as spanking, and light corporal punishment can be a way to stand out to show a real rebuke of the child's action and to say that this is a truly negative repercussion for your bad act.
And this is something that is much more likely to stand out into a child's mind and is much more likely to, in the long term, carry a lesson with it, especially when children are are told, time and again, various lessons that they aren't supposed to do things, without seeing any sort of real repercussions.
So we think that corporal punishment is a way to teach a child lesson through actual negative repercussions for their act, and it allows parental freedom to be within the limits that we think are fair.
All of this can be done while regulating to ensure that children aren't actually abused, and for these reasons, we should not prohibit corporal punishment.