We should not further exploit geothermal energy.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why geothermal energy is not the energy of the future.
So let's frame this round very briefly.
We entirely agree that we need to move away from fossil fuels.
We recognize that global warming is an existential threat to humanity and probably the biggest threat that humanity faces in the next fifty to one hundred years, that if we do not dramatically change the way that we're behaving now and the way that we use energy and fossil fuels, we will lead to our own demise.
That is not what we would contest in this round, rather what we we would contest is that there is a limited amount of resources available for renewable energies.
The reason for this is that generally fossil fuels are still a better investment opportunity in the short run for people that are looking to invest and therefore the amount of money the amount of investment that is available to build up these businesses and these technologies is fungible.
The people that would invest in these types of technologies generally would the type of people that would invest in renewable resources are a pool in and of themselves and so we think the pool of funds for renewable energies is in and of itself fungible.
That if you're going to do things like fund geothermal energy then you're you can't put that same money towards solar energy and there's a direct trade off between those two because the funds for one would have gone to the other or could have gone to the other if not if it didn't go to geothermal.
So let's let's kind of lay out what that means.
We think that we would rather have a system in which we invested all of our eggs in one basket in which we tried to advance one type of renewable energy as much as possible.
The reason for this is that when you invest in a single technology, when you build up a single technology, there's an exponential growth to the advancement of that technology.
We see that through things like moore's law and we see that in the exponential technological innovation that's occurred throughout human history.
So we think that putting more resources into one type of technology is likely to yield results that actually allow us to move entirely off of fossil fuels rather than putting in half efforts to a number of different renewable energies.
And this brings us to our main point, that we think that geothermal is comparatively a worse renewable energy than solar energy.
The reason for this is that is multifold.
First, geothermal energy simply cannot be used in as many areas as solar energy.
It's just not something that you can use in all areas of the world whereas almost every area can use solar panels and solar energy to provide their power.
Secondarily, there are environmental impacts of geothermal energy.
There's it's similar impacts though to a lesser degree of mining operations.
There are things that can be caused like earthquakes and we think that solar energy simply has almost no environmental footprint.
Additionally, the amount of potential energy that's theorized that could be coming from solar energy is much much higher than that from geothermal energy.
The potential energy that reaches our planet from the sun if we were to have perfect efficient use of the amount of solar energy that is being sent to our planet from the sun, we would be able to power the entire world the entire world's power supply from solar and then some.
It would be multiple times the amount of energy that we use in a single year and it would be done at a relatively inexpensive price.
The infrastructure for solar energy is already built up to an immense degree in so we think we are further allow further along that exponential curve that exponential growth in the energy cycle than we are with geothermal energy.
For all these reasons, given that the funds for for renewable energy is fungible and there's a direct trade off between the two, we think it's clear that solar is the way to go and that we should not further exploit geothermal energy.