We should not subsidize recycling.
First in this round, we want to talk about what kind of the principle of a subsidy and what a subsidy is fundamentally, from a principle point of view, and how it can and cannot be spent.
Recognize that a subsidy is simply an accruement of public funds and the use of public funds in order to promote some sort of private or public enterprise.
It's trying to give public money in order to promote something that isn't currently being done, that's that's what's underlying these types of subsidies.
But recognize that those public funds are taken through tax systems that are largely outside of the control of people that are being taxed and that these people cannot choose not to pay in to.
So these are funds that are being gained from the public and a public that ultimately has very little control over whether or not they're going to have to pay those taxes.
So, in order for that subsidy be to be just, we think a few things are necessary.
Because if you're going to spend public money and do it to to promote some sort of private enterprise, something like recycling, to promote some sort of private action, we think it must be something that serves a larger public good.
So we think that if you're going to be putting money out there, that money must accrue benefits to the public writ large.
We don't think that's the case with recycling.
If you're subsidizing recycling, you know, what do we think this looks like?
Maybe building more plants and increasing the infrastructure for recycling.
Potentially maybe it can mean paying people to recycle, but we don't think that these things are going to evenly accrue across the entire tax base, and there are likely already and there are already communities that have strong recycling bases.
But there are tons of communities across the country that could use this money for other needs such as education or building up real infrastructure, so we don't think that this is a large public good that's going to be accrued.
We also think it must be accessible to many and while this certainly is the case for a subsidy, we think that the fact that it doesn't this is the case of recycling, it doesn't mean that a subsidy is necessary.
Because, finally, we think it needs to be lead to meaningful change, and we think largely the status quo solves right now.
Like I said earlier, many communities already have the infrastructure to allow for recycling, even rural towns that don't have the same types of infrastructure projects that urban areas do.
The issue with recycling, we think, isn't access, but it's changing people's minds.
It's convincing people that they need to do things like recycle.
They need to put in that effort themselves in order to get people to promote environmental protection.
And many people are becoming more aware of the impacts of pollution and we think, in the status quo, we're seeing a shift to recycling.
So we don't think this subsidy is necessary, because we think the trends of the status quo are likely to continue, especially as more people see the harms in the of the environmental damage that's being caused right now, and we think that you don't need to have these types of subsidy.
It's not a good subsidy if it doesn't lead to a meaningful change, because that is a fungible resource that could be put elsewhere.
And so we think it's more important that there are more important uses of public funds.
Because while the tax base may be something that people can withdraw from, it's certainly something that the government has to limit in order to ensure that people are able to use money that they've earned to have freedom to, you know, to have the freedom to gain from their labor what they will.
And so given that this is a fundamentally fungible resources, we think there's just so many other ways to use this money.
You can use it for education building, you can use it for infrastructure.
These are areas that communities across the nation are lacking in, and it's something that we think that you could fundamentally have a better cause for, promote more good for.
These are areas in which the trends aren't improving like the trends in recycling are now.
And so we think it is preferable to give money to these areas to try and improve those trends.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize recycling.