We should not abolish the right to keep and bear arms.
So, given the phrasing in this debate, we think this is largely limited to states like the united states that have some sort of a constitutional right to keep and bear arms.
With that in mind, three main arguments.
First, we think it is fundamentally unjust to take away rights.
The thing that delineates and differentiates rights from simply desires is that there's a codified there's a codified legal rationale that says that I can that this right is mine, that despite the fact that it may be, in some instances, not utile, it's something that I have and cannot be taken away from me.
When you make something a right, it's a dramatic statement that you're making, that this is something that will be afforded to you in all circumstances.
Certainly, there's regulation available but, generally, that right will be available to me if I'm a law-abiding citizen.
The problem with taking rights away is that it leads to a slippery slope in which your foundational rights are no longer something that you know to be available to you.
For example, if I if we were to abolish the right to keep and bear arms, there's that same reasoning, that same rationale, " oh, this isn't utile in all circumstances.
This is something that you can have, but shouldn't be guaranteed to you, " again, that's a rational that can be used to restrict almost any right: the right to a fair trial, the right to free speech, all these are things that you can reason away with that argument about utility and say, " well, we'll afford it in most circumstances, but it won't be a right. "
These are problems that we have with removing rights.
It also means that people who plan with this right in mind are entirely undermined and are having that right stripped away from them, even though they've made decisions and have planned their life and lived their life thinking that this right will be afforded to them.
So we think, principally, taking away a right once it exists is fully unjust.
Secondarily, self-defense.
We think that the right to bodily autonomy is the most fundamental right that the state can afford and that in order to actually afford that right, self-defense must be necessary, because the state will not be able to protect you in all circumstances.
If you're in a situation in which there is an immediate threat to your well-being, the state probably isn't going to be able to step in and help you.
But if you have a weapon, if you have a gun, you have that ability to defend yourself, even against an assailant that might also have a gun.
It means that the right to self-defense isn't just a right in words, but it's a meaningful, tangible right that people have because they can act upon that right.
To restrict and abolish the right to keep and bear arms would remove the teeth that self-defense has, and it means that people will no longer be able to guarantee their own well-being.
It will undermine the whole purpose of the state.
Finally, thirdly, regulation solves.
Yes, you can regulate a right.
It's something that we do all the time.
We regulate free speech, we regulate how jurisprudence works, all these things.
So we think it's perfectly acceptable in this debate to say we regulate the right to bear arms.
And we think that regulating this right would likely solve for much of the gun violence we see in the united states.
There are tons of countries in which there are a high number of guns: scandinavian countries, sweden, japan.
There are tons of countries where guns are readily available, but because of the regulatory apparatus they have, things like restricting minors from having guns, things like having thorough background checks, and trainings, right?
Requirements that aren't odorous to your ability to express your right, these are things that actually protect and save lives.
And these are things that we think could easily be done within the united states were were the political incentives to exist to do this, and we think it's vastly more likely and more feasible that regulation takes place than a full-out abolition of the right to keep and bear arms.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the right to keep and bear arms.