We should ban targeted killing.
So we're gonna say we're gonna ban this in all instances, but we think it's important for the purpose of this debate to clarify that in the status quo most targeted killing is done in order to go after terrorism and to go after terrorists.
This is both for domestic and foreign terrorists.
We think obviously that in both instances it's bad to have targeted killings.
So that's primarily the parameters around we're around the debate we're having right now, we're mostly going to talk about terrorism, but to be clear, where against targeted killing in any capacity.
Alright, so we have two main arguments in this round: the first is that targeted killings are demonstrably unjust, and the second is that they're counterproductive in stopping terrorist activities and they are in fact more harmful than they do good.
Alright so how are they unjust?
We think that trials don't just exist in order to give some sort of veneer of legitimacy, but to actually uncover truth.
To give an idea of what has actually occurred.
To do a truth digging investigation.
And to ensure that people have the opportunity to defend themselves.
To ensure that all people are given the chance to mount a defense.
To give reasons for why they did their certain actions and to get some sort of mitigating circumstances on the record, and to ensure that all the truth has been uncovered.
Not all situations are those like osama bin laden, in which we know for a fact that he was responsible for certain attacks.
Many involved incredibly sketchy information.
Information that's coming from third or fourth parties, and you never get the defendant a chance to have you never give the defendant a chance to actually defend himself.
To ensure that he has an opportunity to state what his side of the story is.
The state and state actors often have motivations that need to be checked by the judiciary.
For example, eliminating political rivals, appealing to xenophobia, and creating a straw man poster for your followers.
These are things that people do in politics all the time, and we think that targeted killing is being able to go out and say: " I killed this terrorist and I showed my strength and I sent a message to the terrorist organization ".
It's something that people are willing to do.
And they're willing to do these things on limited information, and they do these things in instances where civilians are often hurt.
All of these things undermined the justice that is done by targeted killing.
Because recognize to pass judgment and punishment in one swoop is not justice.
Its revenge.
It's an attack.
It's an act of aggression.
But it is not justice which is the veneer which with which leaders paint this act in order to justify it.
Given that their own justifications don't meet the criteria that they set out for themselves, we think the targeted killing is clearly unjust.
Okay so why is it also counterproductive?
These strikes almost always end up killing civilians.
A drone strike is not targeted enough to kill one individual, but it kills those around you.
And this is obviously unjust and bad.
These civilians didn't do anything to deserve that.
They were often just born in the village where this person happened to be hiding or they happen to know this person through some sort of second party.
Even if you believe that the target is guilty and deserves to die, we don't think that there's any justification for harming those around him.
And this is also optically horrible.
Especially when done on foreign ground.
It shows the state as a thug who enacts justice as it sees fit and it builds more propaganda for terrorist organizations, to point to people and say: " look at this horrible behemoth in the west.
Look at what it does to target our people.
Look at how much it hates us.
So much so that it would attack your own people, civilians.
In order to get one terrorist actor out of there. "
We think that this sends a bad message and and in the long run leads to more people being recruited into joining terrorist organizations, makes them more powerful in the long run not less powerful.
And on top of that all, as we've explained, these killings themselves are unjust.
For these reasons we should ban targeted killing.