We should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.
In this round, we're going to make three main arguments.
The first is that such a ban would be principally unjust, the second is that the harms of piercing and tattoos are massively overstated, and the third is that we think that parents are best positioned to make these decisions for minors.
So, first, on the principle.
We think that what the government is fundamentally is a coercive apparatus that is essentially unchecked within its borders, that people are at the whim of the government, and the government gets to dictate what people are and are not able to do and that, ultimately, people have very little consent to, basically, no meaningful consent, over the state apparatus.
They don't have the ability to meaningfully, as an individual, dictate the laws that are going to govern them, to dictate the laws that are already in place, to decide whether or not they want to be in a state in the first place.
And there's no system in order to consent and if there was, because of the lack of alternatives, that consent would not be meaningful.
Given that this is the case, in order for the government to differentiate itself from a cartel, from a bully, it needs to find a guiding principle that serves as a proxy for consent.
And we think that that guiding principle is freedom maximization.
Because when people opt in to the state, when people are in a state, they give up certain fundamental freedoms in order to maintain security of other freedoms, which is what you have lacking in a state of nature: security for your freedoms.
Because of this, we think that a ban is contradictory in many ways to what the government ultimately exists to do and therefore, you can only ban in certain circumstances.
First, there could be some sort of direct third-party harm, but my choosing to get a piercing or tattoo clearly has no meaningful impact on someone else.
They may find it appalling, they may not like my piercing or my tattoo, but their preferences are not a meaningful harm that the government should take into account.
There could also be some sort of asymmetry of information which means my decision, as a rational being, isn't actually a rational decision because I lack some sort of crucial information.
But people know that tattoos are, for the most part, permanent.
They know that piercings and tattoos are going to hurt.
They know information about these things and because of that, we don't think there's any sort of asymmetry that justifies the ban.
Finally, there could be some overarching societal good but, again, we don't think that exists here.
Secondarily, we think it's important to point out that piercings and tattoos are not actually permanent.
You can choose to get rid of a tattoo if the meaning behind the tattoo has gone away for you.
You can choose to get rid of a piercing by simply removing the the the piercing that you have and allowing the hole to heal.
There are ways to undo these changes and if you're a minor who regrets your decision, you are able to take steps in order to to walk that decision back.
But finally, we think that parents exist for a reason and that, in the status quo, there are already laws that require parental consent for things like getting a piercing or a tattoo.
And parents know their children best.
They have their children's best interest in mind because they've taken on an immense responsibility of having that child and want that child to thrive.
There are also instinctual drives to have that child succeed and because of that, we think that parents are going to be able to make this decision for their children.
They're going to be able to know whether or not their child is responsible enough to get a piercing or a tattoo.
They're going to know whether or not that decision is going to have long-term repercussions for them, and they're going to be able to counsel that child and let them know that this type of action can have really important consequences.
But the parent will know all of those things and have better information than the state ever will, and because of that, and because this ban is principally unjust, we should not ban piercing and tattoos for minors.