We should abolish standardized tests.
We're gonna do two things in this debate: firstly, we're gonna talk about how standardized tests look in the status quo and the actual tangible arms they have, and secondly we're going to talk about the principled reasons why we think standardized testing accounts for a poor, a poor standard for measuring performance in schools and why we think the philosophy behind doing so is generally detrimental regardless of the tangible impacts.
So firstly, the tangible impacts and what standardized testing looks like.
We think that the large amount of standardized testing is is currently runs through federal and state governments and is largely used as a metric for determining funding that will go to schools in the future.
We think that this is a horrible method of choosing state funding.
Largely because it ensures that the poorest performing schools, which are often the ones that have the highest need for increased funding, the highest need for new resources being poured into those school systems and the most need for help in improving the education of students in their lives.
We think that these tests ultimately lead to funding being cut for those institutions more often than not when we think that as a general detriment to those to those students.
Furthermore, we think that standardized testing, regardless of how funding works, ultimately has an impact on how teachers teach and how students learn in a negative way.
Firstly, we think that it forces teachers to teach to the test, regardless of whether or not funding is involved, because ultimately teacher performance is graded based on how they're perform on these standardized tests.
And what's crucial to understand is that these standardized tests ultimately oftentimes are things that students themselves are not able to adequately perform on for reasons outside of the teachers control, such as how well students are as test takers, how focused there on the test, how invested they are personally are sometimes things that teachers can't understand.
So we think that this specific method of standardized testing is a bad metric for measuring teachers but because they want to keep their jobs they ultimately are forced to try to teach exactly what's going to be on the material which means they can't do innovative things within the classroom to try and get more depth of understanding into their students but rather to make sure that you trudging along in their material to make sure that they'd hit every single thing that may be on a test, to try and give practice tests rather than giving extra teaching time to see how well students are doing.
All these things impact how a teacher teaches and ultimately ensures that the depth of education for students is much lower than otherwise would be if teachers had more flexibility and doing things like planning their curriculum and and deciding how they're going to teach and what they're going to teach their students.
More importantly, we also think that students have a negative impact in standardized testing because of the culture of testing.
We think it places immense burden on students to have the to mentally prepare constantly for these standardized tests.
We think that it can anxiety and make them feel like they're less worthwhile or that their future is in jeopardy if they don't perform well these standardized tests, which we think leads to environment within the education system that isn't hospitable and isn't comforting which we think only makes it more difficult for students to learn in the future.
Secondly, why we think that this is a bad metric for measurement?
We think that there are two metrics for measuring student performance: one of them is based on growth and improvement in performance and the other is based on proficiency, or having an understanding of general topics that need to be assessed.
Standardized testing deals with proficiency but we think that this is a worse metric.
We think that when you don't focus on proficiency, what you otherwise get is a system in which you track how well a student has done relative to their prior education.
We think that this corrects for the instances in which children don't have the same resources available to them, in which students are starting from a lower point than other students, which is often the cases in underperforming schools, and we think it allows teachers to truly show how well they perform and how well they're impacting their students' lives rather than the alternative in which students are seen poorly and teachers to seen poorly even if there is immense improvement, because these standardized test generally show proficiency rather than growth.
When you can't allow teachers and students to demonstrate how much they've learned and you force teachers into a box in which they're able to teach, we think that this is generally negative and we think that this is what standardized testing breeds.
And for this reason we think that you should abolish standardized tests.