We should ban lotteries.
In the status quo lotteries are a means by the state for collecting taxes primarily from people that are poor and middle class.
Lotteries don't actually provide any sort of utility for the average american aside from the ability to attain more tax money.
We would say that the lottery is literally just a poor tax.
It's a tax on people that you make by getting their hopes up for them to potentially make millions of dollars, to make thousands of dollars, even though the odds are so staggeringly against them that it'd never make sense to buy into a lottery.
We think that because of this the lottery should be banned, that there's a public good that must be fulfilled in banning the lottery, and that this is something that the state has an obligation to do.
So what are we talking about?
The lottery is guaranteed to moke to make almost everyone worse off.
And people are truly horrible long term planners.
They can't internalize the fact that money is spent on that money that is spent on the lottery each week accumulates.
That over the course of your lifetime you could spend thousands of dollars on lottery tickets, on scratch offs, on on things that are proven and mathematically certain to make you worse off than if you hadn't spent your money on this in the future.
And the reason that people end up making these decisions is kind of multi faceted.
The first is, as I explained, we are just bad long term decision makers.
Our brains are not good at comprehending the long term outcomes of our decisions and we try to this sort of this short term pleasure that we associate with winning the lottery even though, again, our brains cannot comprehend how staggeringly unlikely it is that we are going to be able to win this lottery, that we're going to make a profit off of it.
You're also coerced by your environment.
When you're in a situation where you have very little disposable income, so little that it doesn't really make a difference if you spend a couple of dollars on a lottery cause that couple of dollars wasn't going to be spent much better anyway, and a lottery gives you, in these people's minds, a chance at striking it rich even though that chance is very small.
For all these reasons we would say that the decision to use the lottery, to buy a lottery ticket, is not a freely rational decision.
It's something that, in the long run, hurts people, there's a massive asymmetry of information that exists when it comes to how truly unlikely you're going to be to win the lottery, given people's expectations and we think all of this justifies a ban on the lottery.
In fact we would say that the state has an obligation to take this under to have this undertaking because the state is the actor that is causing the harm by instituting the lottery in the first place.
We think the lottery takes advantage of the desperation of the masses, especially the poor, and creates a tax that's only on them.
This is a regressive tax.
We think that this is problematic because firstly, it means that there's some sort of a tax that only a small percentage of people are going to be excluded from, but more importantly the the the capacity of citizenship, the ability to have the benefits of citizenship and the obligations of of citizenship should not apply should not fall disparity on all actors.
We think that having a tax of this nature is problematic because it means that your cost of citizenship is higher if you are a citizen that is poor, if you're citizen that's in a working class family, and that falls under the desperation that makes you play the lottery.
The lottery only causes harm under the vast majority of people that play it.
It is only a regressive tax, and for these reasons we should ban the lottery.