Bombing of hiroshima nagasaki were justified.
So, we think that, what's important in this debate is to look at it in a comparative context, because obviously, it's sad and tragic that, thousands of innocent people died in order to prevent the continuation of a war, but, it's also important to recognize that, japan even though it was losing, was not at a point where it was likely to surrender.
Military leadership have been warned about the possibility of such bombings, and still chose not to surrender.
The hierarchy of japanese society didn't allow such surrender to happen.
So, we think that, what is very likely is that these bombings hadn't had happened, the war would have gone on longer, more tragic things would have occurred, and while like, the counter factual is very difficult to conceptualize, we think that there are a few reasons under it why it's preferable that the bombings happened, and why, in that sense, they're justified.
So, let's look at some of the tactics that were done in the war.
Things like firebombing of japanese land that also killed innocent civilians, though didn't do it in the same kind of massive scale, we think that these things would've continue to happen, in a land invasion.
We also think that, a land invasion of japan, rather than the bombings, would have led to the deaths of thousands of united of US soldiers, and as the united states, as the allied powers, we think that you have a foremost obligation to protect those soldiers, those people that, whether drafted of volunteered, are being forced to put their lives on the line, put their lives at risk in order to protect us from an obvious threat.
So, why do we what are the reasons that we think make this a justice case?
Firstly, the US needed the US needs to care for its own.
The united states has an obligation, as a society, as a state, to protect the civilians that compose that state.
While it's true that, there may be obligations to people outside of that state, your foremost obligation is to those within your state.
That's, the tautology of your existence is to protect those of your own state.
And given that this is the case, we think that it's preferable to do the thing that, on the calculus of war, insures that fewer of your soldiers die, even if it may mean to some civilians dying in japan.
Secondly, we think that the calculus is one that means that, either way even with civilian deaths, this was a justified calculation, because the fire bombings would've continued, because the war of world war two was not some pretty thing, in which individual civilian rights were respected, but rather we think that a land invasion would've resulted in many US soldiers committing horrible crimes against the individuals of of japan, especially because there's an intense anger towards japan, because it had attacked the united states first.
This is one of the few instances, in which US aggression is wholly justified, in the nature of self defense.
So, given that in the long run, it's likely that, more japanese civilians would have died due to either, US soldiers actions, or the strategic planning of firebombing cities, in order to make it impossible for for japan to fight back, we think that this strategy is the one that led to the fewest on net deaths, and it also ensured that, the war was able to come to an end quickly, it ensured that the the japan wasn't completely taken out, which means it was capable of being rebuilt, and as we've seen, japan has been able to become a a massive power on the world stage.
Finally, we want to recognize that, the united states gave warnings about what was going to happen.
This wasn't a blind attack on japanese soil, but rather they dropped pamphlets unto the unto to the cities, in which civilians may have been targeted, they gave opportunity for people to leave.
Yes, we recognize that this was a hard task to do, but on the net, on on the whole, we think that it's just clear that, these bombings allowed for fewer civilians to die, and allowed for the war, a war that was justified because of japanese aggression, to come to an end quicker.
And for those reasons, we believe the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were justified.