We should not allow public nudity.
When we're talking about public nudity we're talking about people being able to be nude in public spaces such as being in parks, being in common areas, not in specifically clubs but being able to go into public spheres while naked which is what we think this debate is centered around.
It's not about the nudist lifestyle or anything like that.
It's just about how people are going to behave in public spaces.
So the first thing I want to do is an analysis of what the purpose of the law is and then I want to talk specifically about why in application to public spaces people should not be allowed to be naked.
Alright, we think that the purpose of the law is to codify and uphold social norms.
What we mean by this is that in practice the law is a way of ensuring that social norms are perpetuated throughout society.
This is why we have laws that aren't just bans on murder and bans on things that impede other people's body autonomy, but we also have things like blue laws which inhibit people from buying alcohol and working during certain times of the week, also laws on how we're going to maintain our own property.
Laws that organize how we're going to behave in our neighborhoods and in our communities.
It's because when we come together as a society, people as a collective have a right to choose how they're going to live and in what social sphere they're going to live especially because it's incredibly difficult to opt out of that social sphere in particular and it's impossible to opt out of any social sphere in general.
So why does this mean that we shouldn't allow public nudity?
We think that generally people are uncomfortable with their bodies and with nude bodies generally.
The reason for this is that we can that there are very problematic body norms that are perpetuated throughout our society that make people feel ashamed of how they look, but also teach people to strive for an idealized form of what people can appear like.
To do things like cosmetic surgery, plastic surgery photo-shopping models in spreadsheet in like spreads, magazines, and things like that.
So we think that there are very problematic body norms that have been perpetuated in society.
Part of that perpetuation of bad body norms is a feeling that nudity is taboo, and whether or not this is a good thing that people believe we think that it's something that people deeply hold and is something that's uncomfortable to them.
They don't want their children to be exposed to nude bodies especially at a young age because they think that there is some sort of sensitivity that children have to nudity that could harm their sensibilities what would have you.
We think that people people view this is a slippery slope towards indecency and whether or not those things are fair things to believe, we think that because the purpose of law is to uphold those social norms, and because this doesn't inhibit how people can behave in their private sphere, we think that this is a reasonable request to place on individuals.
So now let's talk about why this is important for public spaces.
Recognize that there is clearly no reason to legislate against nudity in the private sphere.
We think that that would be obscene and ridiculous for a whole number of reasons but in a public space, what's meant to be in a public space is an ability for the community to gather together and enjoy the public gathering.
To enjoy the social gathering that occurs and to enjoy say, in the instance of a park, to enjoy nature.
In the instance of a community building, to enjoy whatever the purpose of the building is.
It's not supposed to be a place of controversy and we don't think that it's an unreasonable expectation to place on individuals in order to maintain just social order and peace within a community.
We don't think it's an unreasonable expectation to say that while you're in those public spaces you must be clothed at least to some extent.
We think that this is a way that allows parents to raise children in the way they want to which we think is a right that parents have.
We think that it's a right for people to have an expectation of comfort when they're in those public spaces which we think is violated by nudity especially in the context of these social mores, and we think that given that it doesn't impede on someone's ability to act in their private life.
We don't think that this is an unreasonable state or expectation to place on the state and an unreasonable legislation.
Those reasons we think that we should not allow public nudity.