We should subsidize agriculture.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why subsidizing agriculture is a positive action the government should take.
The first argument that we want to make is that reliance on domestic production is important.
Firstly, we think that having the domestic production of agriculture, the ability to feed yourself internally and to produce all the agriculture you need to feed your population, without reaching out to the international world, is an incredibly secure thing for a state to have.
Were there to be international conflict, were there to be some sort of internal disputes amongst countries that provide the agriculture, were there to be some sort of action in some sort of natural disaster that damaged a country, the ability to control the infrastructure that allows agriculture to boom is a benefit.
But more importantly, as far as a health perspective, fresher produce comes when it is from more regional areas.
And so having regional farms and regional food chains is allows you to provide fresher produce at lower cost and improve the health of the population.
And this is higher quality of life comes from this type of domestic production and is especially important in today's day and age, given the incredibly high rates of obesity, the the incredible scarcity of food in some areas.
Even in countries like the united states, there are food deserts where you cannot get this type of fresh produce.
Allowing for more subsidization subsidization of agriculture to ensure that local areas have some sort of access to fresh produce is something that is beneficial for security and for health.
Secondly, we think that this is a dying sector that should be protected.
Consolidation and mechanization of small farms has driven down the amount of jobs in the sector, but it's also created monopolistic actors that have huge amounts of influence on the agriculture industry.
Small family farms that have been going on for generations are being wiped out by these monopolistic actors, and we think that we should subsidize these small farms to protect and to allow them to be more competitive in a monopolistic landscape.
We think that these farms have a right to exist, that they providing valuable resources to their areas for generations in some instances, and that we should not allow monopolies to reign supreme in this sector.
Finally, we think there's a necessity of current subsidies.
Even if you don't think that in, in theory, these types of subsidies are beneficial for society, the fact that they do exist in the status quo, that we already subsidize agriculture, is something that is important to keep in mind.
Many businesses rely on these current subsidies to make ends meet, to to be able to provide for their workers, to be able to pay their workers, to provide their food at a competitive price, and they've been planning with these subsidies in mind, producing and creating outputs with those subsidies in mind.
We think if you were to remove these subsidies, as the government side would do, you're likely to see a large amount of job loss and more food deserts, because they're because when these businesses no longer have this source of income, they not only need to drive up prices, but they need to do things like cut down on their amount of production, cut down on the amount of employees they have, all these types of things that harm plans that agriculture industry has made in the past.
We think it is once that aid has been given, once aid has been promised, as it has in this instance, we think it's unjust to repeal that aid, as people have planned with that aid in mind.
They've made long-term choices about how they're going to behave with that aid in mind, and pulling the rug out from under them is only going to make an industry that's already crucial, but also in incredibly delicate state, even more damaged.
For these reasons, we should subsidize agriculture.