We should disband the united nations.
In its conception, the united nations had the goal of bringing together the world, and the for an opportunity for peace between neighboring countries, and a global idea and a global order.
But we think that the united nations has fallen far from this ideal level, and we think that for the vast majority of actions taken by the united nations, these are actions that are simply proxies for imperialism, and proxies for strong nations to take decisions into their own hands about how small nations are going to behave.
We think that the united nations could better exist, the goals of the united nations could better exist if one were to do things like set up better treaty organizations and set a better international relations between countries directly, rather than have this sort of quasi global governing authority, that is for the most part ineffective, but when it is effective we think is very problematic.
So those are the two things that we're gonna talk about.
First we're going to talk about why the united nations, for the most part, is ineffective and why it's a massive money waste, and secondly, we're going to talk about the instances in which it is effective and why those are the worst instances.
Okay.
So why is the united nations ineffective?
We don't think it is nearly it is capable of acting in unison, and what this means is that there are so many varied interests that take part in the decision making at the united nations, that we don't think that it's able to intervene in instances when it's supposed to, when when it was created to exist.
Take for example the genocide in rwanda, a genocide in which people knew was going to happen, they saw the tensions rising, they saw the potential of violence and the outbreak of violence, but the united nations didn't wasn't able to step in until after most of the violence had already occurred, and when it did step in it wasn't able to stop the violence, it was only able to set up certain sanctuary cities.
We think that this is massively ineffective, given the amount of money that is put into this, for example.
And other instances in which the united nations have simply been ineffective, isn't doing things like solving the dispute in the palestinian conflict, and in trying to keep order and say the south the southeast agency.
We think that these are instances in which the united nations exists to serve those purposes.
We think it exists to serve as a mediator in these conflicts, in these genocides, in these tensions, and it simply has shown time and again to be ineffective in doing so.
But the united nations takes in billions of dollars every year from a from a vast array of countries, that we think otherwise could be better used domestically in those states to help the people in those in those states themselves, or would be better used if all the money, say, went to unicef as like one sole body that the united nations would remain, if we disbanded the united nations aside from this one piece that only serves as a charitable arm.
So, we think that for the most part it's ineffective in these measures.
But when it is effective, it's almost always for imperialist means.
For example, the security council is controlled almost entirely by large nations, specifically by the US and its allies, russia and china.
What this means is that when the united nations chooses to use military force, it does take some sort of military action against a country, it is almost always directed by the interests of those three major power blocs.
And what this means is that the only time when there's any sort of intervention in human rights violations, or in any sort of country's sovereignty, is when those three states agree that it should be done, or when it serves those political interests.
We think that this is a fundamentally broken model for how we're going to use the the united nations security forces, and how it's going to direct force throughout the world.
We think that this is only a another tool for imperialist powers to use in a way that it has been able to do for the last century, the last two centuries.
We don't think that it should continue, we don't think the united nations should be this beacon for imperialism as it currently is, and for these reasons we should disband the united nations.