We should not ban alcohol beverages.
In this round, we're going to make two main arguments about why we shouldn't ban alcohol beverages.
The first is that we say this would be an unjust ban.
We think that, fundamentally, what the state is is the only actor within a given border that can use a coercive apparatus in a legitimate way, and this means that they have the ability to wield an immense amount of influence over people's lives, without people having the ability to fight back legitimately.
People cannot legitimately wield power against the state.
They can't use force against the state without having a much heftier power come down upon them and forcing them to behave in a different way.
We say that people are unable to fully consent to the state.
They're either born into the state or forced to live in the state by circumstances outside of their control, and while they can do things like vote, serve on juries, participate in the political process, this doesn't mean that they can fully consent to all of the laws that are impacting them, nor can they meaningfully opt out of those laws were they to disagree with them.
So there are a number of ways in which people cannot consent.
We think that without consent, the state is principally unjust.
It's fundamentally just a bully or a cartel that enforces its rule on the citizenry.
And in order to become just, it has to find some sort of a principle that guides it, some sort of a principle that undermines how laws are structured.
We think that people would opt into the state because outside of the state, there are no protections of freedom.
There's no fundamental way to ensure that your freedoms will be upheld.
Even though you have maximal freedom, you can do anything you want outside of the state, that means other people can also do anything they want to you and can strip you of your freedom.
And thus, we think the state should exist to ensure freedom in a very fundamental sense, to ensure that people have their freedom maximized by restricting certain actions, so that they can have security in all of their other actions.
And thus, a ban can only occur under very strict conditions, the condition that it maximizes freedom for all.
So what are some ways that a ban can maximize freedom?
There could be some sort of asymmetry of information that causes direct harm to another person, but this isn't the case when it comes to alcoholic beverages.
There's no asymmetry of information that exists when it comes to alcohol.
People know that alcohol can make them inebriated, people know that there can be serious long-term and short-term effects that come with over-consumption of alcohol.
This is something that has people are educated in at a very young age and we think that, at that point, they can make informed decisions about what they want to do to their own bodies.
There could be some sort of direct third-party harm, but that doesn't come with alcohol.
Yes, people can drive inebriated and people can harm other peoples while inebriated but it's not a direct impact of someone drinking, but of someone making a choice while being intoxicated, and those are the things we can ban: driving under the influence, doing certain things under the influence of alcohol.
Or there could be some sort of overwhelming good to the community but again, this doesn't exist.
There's no overwhelming positive if people are forced to be sober all the time.
They'll probably just find other outlets for their consumption.
And that's the last thing we wanna talk about, how prohibition leads to worse harms.
What we see in with prohibition of drugs and what we saw prohibition of alcohol in the past is that people want their alcohol.
People want to be inebriated, and they will go to great lengths to do so.
This means that we think you're more likely to get the return of gangs being involved in the production of alcohol, of organized crime being in in being involved in the production of alcohol and of the whole supply chain of alcohol, much like the supply chain of drugs being littered with dead bodies and with violence the whole way.
We don't think that prohibition is going to succeed in banning alcoholic beverages and even if it did, we don't think there's any sort of serious positive that comes from this ban.
For these reasons, we should not ban alcoholic beverage.