We should ban racial profiling.
Racial profiling is the process of policing, in which individuals are either arrested, primarily because, or as a certain factor, because of the race that they are.
, so, we think that this is blatantly discriminatory, and that it is ultimately ineffective in doing the job of policing, and because of that, we should ban racial profiling.
So, firstly, why it's discriminatory?
We think that, law exists to judge people on individual cases, that law in the trial process in democracies exists to ensure that people had their fair chance at freedom, and to ensure that they have a presumption of innocence when they go into a courtroom.
We think, in order for this presumption of innocence to have any merit at all, in the way that, police choose to observe and to act around people within the polity, there needs to be a presumption of innocence there as well, that there needs to be a certain level of respect and dignity given to all people within our society, and that even when someone isn't in the courtroom, you should always have a presumption of innocence, as a public official, and certainly as a police officer.
Racial profiling skews that dramatically.
It means that you're going to use statistics to say that, this person is less likely to be innocent than someone of a different race.
And in doing so, you strip them of that presumption of innocence, and their basic human decency, when they're walking around in our society, when they're participating in our society .
And furthermore, this doesn't have any sort of effect on criminality.
Race does not genuinely, through the fact that it is race, dictate criminality.
There's nothing about being of a certain race that makes you propensity eh that gives you a higher propensity to commit crimes, even if statistics show that there are certain clusters in certain races, that per capita are more likely to be incarcerated, but I'll get to this in a second.
So, why does racial profiling cause tangible harms in the communities that are being policed?
Well, one: it makes these communities feel otherise.
When this process is used systemically within police departments, it it sends of passage from public officials, from the law, it sends the message, that we believe that you are a criminal race, or you are a more likely to be criminal person, and we this make people feel like victims in their own communities.
When they feel like victims in their own communities, there's more likely to be tension between police, which means that police efforts between police and communities, which means that, the effort of policing in the first place becomes dramatically more difficult, it's less likely to get community involvement in activity, in participation, in solving crimes, in reporting crimes, in taking care of one's own, and in this sense we think that racial profiling only serves to undermine the purpose of policing.
But secondly, we think that racial profiling is also just ineffective.
Racial profiling and crime statistics come out of a history of racial discrimination.
In a time in which which laws were modeled in order to directly target people of a particular race, such as in the united states, when the war on drugs started, as a nixon administrator, and the nixon administration said: it was the criminalization of certain drugs was done, directly to harm minorities, to harm people of color, to ensure they were incarcerated.
Directly after the end of colonialism, systems were put in place by colonial powers to ensure that they still had the labor, that they previously had from the colonial system, through laws and policing that targeted minority groups.
That's why statistics exist in the way they do, and these things have a compounding effect.
When parents are taken away from children, put in jail, and aren't able to earn money, children are dramatically more likely to end up in those cycles, if for no other reason than they have nowhere to turn, but the desperation of committing crimes, or because they grow up in an environment where that becomes normalized.
But, it's not because of who they are, and we don't think that the statistics mean that people are more criminal, it's just a sign of the hardship that they go through in society.
And because of this, we don't think that these statistics are any meaningful should have any meaningful impact on how we police.
If anything, it should have a meaningful impact in how we choose to give social goods, and social needs, to to specific communities of people.
And because of this, we believe that we should ban racial profiling.